ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 72nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I have checked you all out, and I ask you to come forward again, or tell me who votes with the replacement card. The Organizing Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a proposal for a 72th meeting on 19 November of this year. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on the same day. We will now proceed to the designation of the meeting verifiers. I propose that we designate Mr Stanislav Berkovec and Mr Jan Čižinský. I'm asking if anyone else has a proposal to identify the verifiers of this meeting. I don't see anyone. We will therefore vote on verifiers. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number one. There are 98 Members registered, for 95, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Members of the Chamber of Deputies, Stanislav Berkovec and Jan Čižinský, as verifiers of the 72nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The Grémium of the Chamber of Deputies continues to apply that if we vote in the number of 200, apologies are counted. In the event that the reduced number agreement is in force, everyone is deemed to be excused, there is no need for special apology. The members of the government apologize: Marie Benešová working reasons, Lubomír Metnar working reasons, Tomáš Petříček - but I see that the Minister is here before me, so he cancels his apology for the moment. Robert Plaga working reasons. Jan Bartošek apologizes for working reasons within 16 hours, Jiří Bláha health reasons, Dominik Feri without giving reasons, Stanislav Fridrich health reasons, Miroslav Grebeníček health reasons, Lenka Kozlová health reasons, Jana Levová health reasons, Karel Schwarzenberg health reasons, Karla Šlechtová health reasons, Václav Votava health reasons. With the replacement card number 15, Mr Václav Klaus votes. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has requested that the following House prints, which it has approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, be discussed in a short hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. For the record, the state of the legislative emergency has been declared as from 1. 12. to 18. 12. by decision of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. In particular, these prints are: Government bill on the distribution of medicinal products containing vaccines for vaccination against COVID-19 disease, print 1102, Amendment to the Act on conditions of acquisition and recognition of fitness for the performance of non-medical medical professions, press 1103, Amendment to the Act on certain adjustments in the field of employment, press 1104, Amendment to the Act on Prison Service and Judicial Guards of the Czech Republic, House Press 1105, According to Article 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I have decided to discuss these government proposals in a short session and I have ordered the House Presses 1102 and 1103 of the Health Committee, the House Press 1104 of the Social Policy Committee, the House Press 1105 of the Security Committee, and set them an unbreakable deadline for submitting a resolution by Thursday, 3 December at 10.00. [[Strong noise and noise in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Article 99 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies are in a state of legislative emergency before discussing the proposal for a programme to assess whether the legislative emergency lasts. I'm gonna ask you to calm down! Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm in the hall! I'm opening the debate. [[The President is ringing.]] The meeting has begun, please take your seats in the hall! I am opening up a debate on the issue of a legislative emergency. I'm asking if anyone's interested in the show. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency'. Initiating vote. All in favor. Who's against it? Voting number two. Registered 157, for 127, versus 1. The motion was accepted. We will now proceed to the proposal for the 72nd meeting, as stated on the invitation. First of all, let me introduce you to the proposals on which today's grémium agreed. Firstly, we propose to eliminate points 21 and 364, print 581 - Government draft law on pharmaceuticals, 2nd and 3rd reading. Since points 40 - printing 966, 313 - printing 1058, 345 - printing 886, 346 - printing 910, 351 - printing 978, have been discussed at extraordinary meetings, please do not apply to these no longer need to be voted on. Secondly, the Grémium proposes to include new points in the proposal for a 72nd meeting: 1. bills submitted in connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency. These are prints 1102, 1103, 1104, 1105; 2. bills from the Senate: amendment to the Income Tax Act, House press 922/4, returned to the Senate; Amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act, press 1080/2, rejected by the Senate; Thirdly, we propose the following procedure this week: today, on Tuesday, discuss drafts of laws that the Senate has returned or rejected in order: print 922/4, print 1080/2 and then items in order of the design of the programme; Wednesday 2. 12. we will discuss the points from block 3 reading for which the deadlines have been met; We would have started the afternoon negotiations on the basis of the Grémia agreement at 14.00, i.e. half an hour earlier, by discussing point 8 of the proposal for a programme, press 1067 - the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2021, 2nd reading; Thursday 3. 12. we would include point 490 - Information of the Ministry of Environment in the case of Bečva immediately after the discussion of paragraph 493 - answers to written interpelations, but first at 10.30, we would not start before 10.30 hours; Friday 4. 12. We propose from 9 a.m. first to discuss draft laws in the shortened negotiations by first discussing all at second reading and then at third reading, as we have done several times in this parliamentary term. These are House prints 1102, 1103, 1104 and 1105. We would then, if necessary, continue to discuss the remaining points from the third reading block. [[14.10 hours]] There. Now, Madam Members, I beg you to comment on the draft programme, if necessary. I have three written applications first. Mr Valenta joined the agenda first, Mrs Langšádlová will be prepared, then Mr Klaus and I have registered from the place of application, Mr Ferjenčík. So once again, I'm gonna ask for peace and quiet. There's a meeting going on. Thank you. [[It's ringing to calm down in the hall.]] You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, let me propose to you the inclusion of a new item in this meeting, whose title would be the Opinion of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the unacceptable interference of the Senate of Parliament of the Czech Republic and its special purpose, i.e. the political influence of the process taking place in the Council of Czech Television, which is under the applicable law on Czech Television. In the discussion on this point, for example, I would like to look for an answer to the question of whether there has been some secret amendment to the Constitution in the Czech Republic, which I have not yet registered. Whether there is still the power of the court, where each complainant can appeal himself, and the court will then decide whether the jurisdiction which has already passed on to the person of the CEO of Czech Television or to the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. [[There's always noise in the room.]] The fact that the Director-General of Czech Television Dvořák exceeds his competence and explicitly attacks the audit authority, the Czech Television Council, which according to § 9 para. On the contrary, 2 of the Czech Television Act are responsible for its activities, and which was also completely democratically elected by the House, I would perhaps still be able to understand from the point of view of the House. He also criticizes the Chamber of Deputies from the Czech Television screens very subjectively and naturally for him for free from time to time, and we have unfortunately become accustomed to such his actions. Some may want peace of mind since the Czech Television counterattack, for example, as a legitimate and legal MP when approving the annual reports of Czech Television, but I personally do not intend to accept the unhealthy situation in the public legal medium. Director of Czech Television with a salary not similar to -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u3	I'll stop you for a moment. Once again, I ask for peace in the hall! Or I'll just have to stop the meeting for five minutes so you can go outside and come back like normal people and listen to the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u4	The director of Czech Television, with a salary not similar to the salary of the President of the Republic, has apparently taken the impression that he himself is the sole shareholder of a kind of untouchable media empire and can afford anything towards the dealers whose interests are represented by the Council of Czech Television. Yes, for a long time indeed he could, supported by certain political circles, but today the Council of Czech Television is really starting to work, how it should have worked by law long ago. And so now the management of Czech television will probably have to prepare itself for further detection of numerous errors, not only of an economic nature. But the fact that, in an unacceptable trend, i.e. in prejudice, the fact plain and beneath the threshold of exerting pressure on the power of the court with a trigger for social unrest, continues with both the Director and the Senate, does not really leave me cold. His resolution number 44 of 19 November 2020 on the current situation in the Czech Television Council, namely the appeal of the Supervisory Commission of the Czech Television Council, illustrates this sad fact quite accurately. I therefore propose to you, colleagues, after the possible inclusion of points and discussions - and I think that this is more than necessary on this subject, and also, please, nicely, where this discussion should take place elsewhere than, above all, here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, and not only on the electoral committee, as the Senate is proposing in a shady way - to adopt a resolution in the following wording: I. The Chamber of Deputies rejects any attempts by the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on political interference in the independence of the Czech Television Council and its control activities carried out under the Czech Television Act No. 483/1991 Coll.; II. Calls on the Senate of Parliament of the Czech Republic to refrain from any further hacking of the principles of democratic rule of law and parliamentary democracy, which undoubtedly also includes sovereign and politically independent activities of the Czech Television Council. III. The Chamber of Deputies instructs the President of the Chamber of Deputies to send this resolution to the President of the Senate and to the Presidents of Senate Clubs. I propose to include this new point as the first point in today's negotiations after the Senate's vomit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. Next up, Mrs Helena Langšádlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to request the inclusion of the Government's Information on the completion of the Dukovany nuclear power plant at 10. 12 o'clock at 11 o'clock. Why I demand it again and why I am surprised that this proposal is not presented by the government itself. This project is not only one of the most expensive in the last 30 years, but has significant not only economic, energy, but also geostrategic and security significance. I cannot imagine a government that supports such a project without informing the Chamber of Deputies. Without discussing the individualities of this project, the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, five political parties here have clearly declared the requirement to exclude two suppliers, respectively. not addressing two suppliers, that's from Russia and China. From this tender, this government is risking that this tender will be stopped anyway after the election. I cannot imagine that the government wants to continue this project in this situation. As a member of the government committee, I regret to say that we have indeed been deceived by many information. We have been informed that the government has defined its security interests, the government has approved its security interests, but the government has not yet seen to it that these security interests, which it itself has approved, are reflected in the procurement documents. And this really is a very serious thing. I can't imagine we wouldn't be informed about what the government's idea of funding is. During the few months we are talking about funding, the debt of the Czech Republic increased by nearly 1 trillion crowns, which is a thousand billion. In this situation, it is entirely legitimate to require that the budget committee of the Chamber of Deputies discuss this question as well. I cannot imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that the Economic Committee has not discussed the criteria of such a contract, including the weight of individual criteria. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be interested in whether the government will actually stand up to the European Commission's negotiations. If the applicable Section 29 of the Public Procurement Act is applied correctly. Whether the Government of the Czech Republic can do this at all. Yes, there are some options ahead of us. The possibilities certainly include that of the government respectively. ČEZ did not address candidates from Russia and China. But in that case, we must be informed and assured that they will not participate in significant segments of this contract as a sub-contract. I think it is also appropriate to postpone the project and evaluate the projects that have actually started in Europe in the meantime. Poland and the United States are preparing a large construction of nuclear power plants. France is preparing a large construction of nuclear power plants in cooperation with the Netherlands. Please, let us open the question of whether we would rather not join these projects, not support our alliance, rather than mess with our security, sovereignty and our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. The MP had a brave fight with it, but she must have yelled at you. I'm begging you once more for peace and respect for the performers. Next up, Mr. Václav Klaus is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I'm not going to lobby about the fact that the plant has to be built by John Biden's son's company or something at all costs. My proposal is to include a point that I called the constitutional implications of the amendment to the Public Health Act, and to include it today after the backs of the Senate. Reason. Yesterday in the media there was extensive information about the preparation of the amendment to the Public Health Act, which would seem to have an absolutely fundamental impact on the constitutional rights of citizens of the Czech Republic. Without declaring a state of emergency, without approval of the House, extension of 30 days, travel bans, traffic bans, closing shops, etc. We as a Trikolóra do not really want power in the Czech Republic to be handed over to officials in some permanent semi-lockdown, and we want to discuss it today, because I don't want to wait for the amendment to arrive here sometime at 3:00 in the morning in an emergency mode, and there will be some kind of quick agreement for something replaced by a coalition to be accepted. On this point, I will propose a resolution which reads: The Chamber of Deputies rejects attempts to exploit the existence of viral diseases to change constitutional order and calls on the Government to withdraw the preparation of an amendment to the Public Health Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u9	Thank you. Now some applications that are written are preferred, which are not from the place. Mr Ondřej Profant is the first Member to prepare Mr Grospič. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u10	Hello. I would like to ask for paragraph 22, House press 756, to further electronize the public administration process, the so-called DEPO. This is a press that has been through a very intensive meeting on the committee, and there is a very broad political consensus on it, and I would like to say, as if there was an official agreement between ministries, and last but not least, a security community is required. There are modifications to the regulation of cloud services and their security, data sovereignty of the European Economic Community, etc. And that should be anchored, or we'll be in a legislative vacuum. Therefore, I beg you to include this press either on Tuesday 15. 12th for the first press, and if it's not approved, Thursday 17th. 12 after written interpelations at 11 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Grospič is also on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me also to sign up with four minor amendments to the agenda for this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Firstly, I would like to propose a new point for the agenda of this meeting, which would be the Information on the state of the Czech Post submitted by the Minister of the Interior of the Czech Republic, the first Vice-President of the Government, Jan Hamáček. I propose this point as the first point 17. 12. 2020 means the second week of the meeting on Tuesday, as the first point, or if there were other points, then immediately after them as the next point. The second proposal is the prioritization of Act No. 2018 with serial number 305 in the agenda so far. It is a law on waters, which has been submitted by a majority of Members' Club Chairs. It would be good for this law to be negotiated in parallel with the three draft laws of Parliament in the constitutional law committee, i.e. that we should discuss it and allow it to be discussed in the constitutional law committee in parallel with those laws which have already arrived from the previous meeting. I propose his solid inclusion for tomorrow, December 2nd, as the first point of the afternoon. As regards the third point, it is Parliament's press 317, item 247. This is the third reading of the Five Weeks Vacation Act, which has already been passed by the Committee on Social Policy and is on the agenda. I wanted to ask you if he could be included for tomorrow 2. 12. as a first point, you would do one thing - not approve of this bill, but return it back to second reading. With this request and this inclusion before you, I come forward. This is also in agreement with some of the members of the relevant social committee. As far as the last proposal is concerned, this is purely our proposal, which relates to insolvency, execution, although seemingly a little different issues. This is the first reading. I'm aware of that. It's press 152. It is classified as point 380 and concerns the amendment to the Consumer Law Act. I suggest his inclusion on, I believe, Wednesday 18. 12. as the second point of the afternoon meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík is registered from the seat, then Mr Benešík is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would only like to put the draft law on teaching workers before the draft law on food in the context of the second reading block. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u15	Mr. Mr. Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to propose, as an item in the Chamber of Deputies, information from the Government on the journey of the President's advisor to the Russian Federation. This journey is undoubtedly a very serious matter. Although the economic and political relations of the Czech Republic with the Russian Federation are not intense, this is a relation with regional power, at a time when we are discussing the possibility of expanding the capacity of the nuclear power plant in Dukovany, which the state company of the Russian Federation has an eminent interest in. KDU-ČSL certainly does not intend and priori to claim that we should not maintain relations with the Russian Federation. Of course we do, it is a regional power and it is important that we keep in touch. Nor are we saying that the work trip of the advisor of the President of the Republic to Moscow is unacceptable in principle. On the contrary, it's common practice. But this path raises certain questions to which we want answers. [[14.30 hours]] With what mandate did Mr. Nejedlý go to Moscow? If the trip has been coordinated with the government and whether it has been informed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Who did Mr. Nejedlý meet in Moscow, and what was his protocol security, I think, what was the protocol to secure his journey? Was the Czech representative office in Moscow involved in the implementation of this trip in content or organization? What kind of entity carried the financial costs of this journey? What is the nature of Mr. Nejedlý's employment relationship and the Office of the President of the Republic? Is Mr. Nejedlý a civil servant within the meaning of the Civil Service Act? If Mr. Not eaten is not a civil servant, how is it possible for him to have a diplomatic passport? On whose request was the passport issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Was the trip announced by the President of the Republic at the coordination meetings on foreign policy, which are convened by the President and which are quite much mediated? And if there is a record of this hearing? And if so, how is it classified, if there is a classification, for example, a level of secrecy, or if such registration can be obtained? And I suggest that this point be included on Friday after the third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u17	So, with priority law, the Minister of Foreign Affairs wants to respond. Please, Minister. [[Noise persists in the Chamber.]] I shall once again ask you, honourable Members, to remain calm. Allow the speeches of individual Members and Ministers. Those who speak, go to the foyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u18	Mr President, honourable Members, allow me to respond briefly to Mr Benešík, with an apology that I will have to withdraw from the negotiations subsequently because of the North Atlantic Alliance Ministerial Meeting. If I may briefly approach Mr. Counselor Nejedlý's path. This trip, according to the information available to us, has been planned for a long time. It was planned following the cancellation of President Zeman's meeting with President Putin, which was scheduled to take place in May this year. The content of the negotiations with his counterpart, Mr. Ušakov, is in the minutes available to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The main topics of the meeting were on the agenda of the presidential administration. The content was also the preparation of President Zeman's future meeting with President Putin. The counselors have also touched on some other topics. The minutes are available to the Office of the President of the Republic, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other members of the Government. As for the involvement of the embassy, I want to add here: In general we knew about the preparation of the trip. The specific travel plan, the Embassy of the Czech Republic programme in Moscow was no longer informed, only ensured that the information was transmitted to the authorities there and subsequently did not take part in any negotiations. Mr. Ambassador Pivoňka was subsequently informed of the contents of the negotiations with Mr. Ušakov by Mr. Nejedlý at the debriefing. With regard to the issuance of Mr Nejedlý's diplomatic passport, I would like to refer again to my observations. Here, all the same subways are measured regardless of whether the advisor is internal or external. If an institution such as the Office of the President of the Republic declares that this person is an advisor and accompanied by the highest constitutional officer on foreign travels, the Ministry issued a diplomatic passport in accordance with general international practice in 2013. Any withdrawal, as I have been called upon to do, shall be possible only in two cases, either if the position of the person concerned ends or if the person has committed a criminal offence or offence in the possession of this diplomatic passport. Neither has happened, and therefore I, as Minister, have no authority to proceed or intervene in any way. In the case of negotiations, so, of course, it is up to you, Members and Members, but I would not say that this path poses any security risk, as has been said here. And since the issues that have been discussed are in the administration of the President of the Republic, I believe that all questions are ready to be answered by representatives of the Ministry or possibly the Office of the President of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u19	Well, thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in a performance on the agenda. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u20	I'd like to talk about the press that we don't have on the agenda because I feel like it's been forgotten, and I'm sorry that Secretary Maláčová isn't here. Dear colleagues, I don't know if you remember, that time is running quite quickly, September 25th, which is more than two months ago, the government wanted to discuss in a state of legislative emergency cursarbeit. September 25th. Today is December 1st, we are infallibly only after the first readings. So it is absolutely clear that the cursarbeit will not be valid from January 1st next year. It's a fiasco, Madam Secretary, a fiasco of her attitude. As opposition, we offered a helpful approach, we wanted to participate in a law that would really help employers and employees. According to my information, the agreement has already been reached with both employers and employees, and Minister Maláčová is unable to enforce the timely discussion of this bill at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. But she comes up with other ideas and ideas that she would pick up where else, how she would somehow raise expenses, but she didn't do this homework. Let us remember her fiery performance when she wanted to approve it in a state of legislative emergency. It's been almost a quarter of a year, and nothing's happening. So the next time one of the ministers is here to talk about the need to approve today, at the latest tomorrow, remember this unfortunate case. What will happen from January 1st? Well, there's just not gonna be a law. How are employers to prepare for next year, those affected by government measures? I've heard the government wants to come back with a request to prolong the emergency. The impact on the economy is devastating in many sectors, and we are not able to discuss this in a timely manner in which there is political agreement, in principle, to apply the new year's cursarbeit. Well, that's just a sigh of the fact that the Secretary of State has completely failed at this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u21	Thank you. Well, I'll look around the hall, Chairman Chvojka with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, colleagues. I wanted to respond to President Stanjuru through President Vondráček. Well, unfortunately, part of what the President says is true. However, it is true, which is not entirely good for our coalition. Madam Secretary Maláčová does everything she can. Yes, it promotes the amendment to the Employment Act so that it is discussed as quickly as possible. After all, you may remember that some month, month, and something, we proposed a maximum shortening of all deadlines, so that the second reading would take place as quickly as possible and that sometime at this time, perhaps tomorrow, we would already have a third reading ahead of us. Unfortunately, some political entities, parliamentary clubs, have blocked the shortening of this deadline here in the House, and therefore it has not happened. This means the time limit for second reading is not earlier than 7 December. We are sorry as ČSSD, of course Minister Maláčová is sorry too, because it is really our priority. But there are some deputies here that should just grab their noses and say it's their fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u23	Thank you. President Stanjura with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u24	For President Chvojka. He knows this very well through the President of the Chamber of Deputies. We voted to shorten the deadline as a constructive opposition. But I just said that the Minister is unable to enforce it, and that's true. I'm not entirely interested in the reasons. But he comes every week with a new idea to open up more and more laws and failed to fulfill her homework. That's just what's important to say. And I always hear from the Social Democrats how the coalition doesn't work, what they didn't push, and that it's wrong, and they're in a minority, and no one's gonna give their word. And what do they do? He's sitting on those chairs! He's sitting on those ministerial chairs! That's crucial. Actions, not words! So if that's your priority, how come you didn't push it? I have experienced coalition governments, and so have you, Mr President, through the President. You know very well that when a coalition partner really wants something, he's gonna make a minimum deal. I wasn't even talking about the contents of the law, but that you weren't paying attention to it at all. So taxes - disaster! Kurzarbeit - disaster! Everything awful! And what do the Social Democrats do? They're sitting on those chairs, sitting in that government, using those ministerial limos, but they're talking about how nothing works!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-000-000.u25	I ask if anyone else wants to speak with an additional or amendment to the agenda? If I don't see anyone, we will deal with the proposals that have been made here. First, we will, of course, vote on proposals from the Gremium. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposal that came out of today's grémia on the agenda. Who's against it? The number three vote is 184, for 154, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now address the proposal by Mr Valenta, who proposes the inclusion of a new point, perhaps I will interpret it correctly - the unacceptable political interference of the Senate in the independence of Czech Television would be the name of this new point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? The vote number 4 includes 183 Members, for 38, against 58. This proposal was not adopted. We will no longer decide on a firm classification. Mrs Langšádlová proposes the inclusion of a new item Information of the Government on the completion of the Dukovany nuclear power plant. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's up for a new point. Who's against it? The number 5 vote is 184, for 64, against 6. The motion was not accepted. Mr Klaus proposes the inclusion of a new point in the Constitutional scope of the amendment to the Public Health Act. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of the inclusion of a new point of the Constitutional Impact or the scope of the amendment to the Public Health Act. Who's against it? There's 184 in vote number six, 81 against no one. The motion was not accepted. Mr Profant has proposed a prioritization of paragraph 22, press 756, so-called DEPO - electronization of the state administration. The first was the proposal that it be on Tuesday as the first point on December 15, 15. 12. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 7 is 184, for 79, against 2. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore vote on an alternative proposal - to include on Thursday 17. 12 at 11 o'clock this point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 8 is 184 Members, for 78, against no one. The motion was not accepted. There are now four proposals from Mr Grospič. First he asks for a new point Information on the state of the Czech Post submitted by the Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of this new point. Who's against it? There's 184, for 91, for no one. The motion was not accepted. Furthermore, there is a proposal for the inclusion of point 305, print 1018, on the waters, first reading, on Wednesday 2 December, i.e. Tomorrow's the first point at 2:00 p.m. First item in the afternoon. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 10 vote is 184, for 20, against 21. The motion was not accepted. In addition, Mr Grospič proposes paragraph 348, the House Press 317, third reading, to put it first within the block of first reading. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In vote number 11 we are 185, for 56, against 1. The motion was not accepted. As the last one, Mr Grospič proposes paragraph 152, Parliament's press 380, to place, on a fixed basis, points on Wednesday 16. 12. It's a point about consumer credit, second reading. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? The number 12 vote is 185, for 22, against 22. The motion was not accepted. There is also Mr Ferjenčík's proposal, which proposes point 10 in the second reading block, to put it before the Food Act. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 13 vote is 184, for 47, versus 8. The motion was not accepted. Mr Benešík proposes the inclusion of a new point in the Information of the Government on the way of the President's advisor to the Russian Federation, if that is what we could call it? [[Yes.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's up for a new point. Who's against it? The number 14 vote is 182, for 62, versus 1. This proposal was not accepted, we did not place a new point. [[14.50 hours]] This has dealt with all the supplementary proposals on the agenda and we will vote on the agenda of this meeting as a whole. I'm opening the vote. Who is in favour of approving this meeting's agenda? Who's against it? Voting number 15. 184 Members are registered, for 170, against no one. The motion was accepted. I thank you all very much, we have approved the programme for the upcoming 72nd meeting and we will continue according to the programme. Opening point number
