ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u1	6. Government bill on granting state guarantee of the Czech Republic to secure debts of Českomoravská záhránek a development bank, a.s., arising from liability for credit debts in connection with the reduction of negative impacts caused by SARS-CoV-2 /house print 832/ - shortened negotiations The proposal submitted will be presented by the Vice-President of the Government and Finance Minister Alena Schillerová, whom I ask to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to briefly mention the draft law that I am now presenting to you, which aims to respond to the current situation caused by the disease pandemic COVID-19 caused by the SARS virus to the emergency state declared in the Czech Republic and the associated expected enormous impacts on the economy. I therefore consider it necessary to create quick and effective tools to support business entities. The Czech Republic will provide a state guarantee to secure the debts of the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank arising from the guarantee for loans granted by banks. The state guarantee will be granted to a maximum of CZK 150 billion. The expected instrument will allow ČMZRB to provide a guarantee for the repayment of the loan for operation to a greater extent. These guarantees will be provided by ČMZRB, the Czechoslovak Guarantee and Development Bank, with a view to strengthening the liquidity of businesses and ensuring rapid access to the credit financing of business entities. The condition of the guarantee is that the loan has been granted to an entrepreneur with a maximum of 500 employees and is a loan for operational financing. In the case of entrepreneurs - and now please mention the specific legal conditions - in the case of entrepreneurs who employ 250 employees, this means that this is actually the definition of a small and medium-sized enterprise, the guarantee is granted to a maximum of 90 per cent of the debt on a given loan. So beware - 90 percent will be guaranteed by the state, 10 percent by the lending bank. In the case of entrepreneurs employing between 250 and 500 employees, the guarantee shall be provided with a maximum of 80 per cent of the debt on the individual loan granted. Because it is at the discretion of banks that guarantee loans to the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank, its role in the approval process is not as important as in previous programmes. The guarantee distribution will not be affected by ČMRZB's capacity and guaranteed loans will reach clients very quickly. This structured guarantee model is commonly used by the EIF or the EIB and banks can work with it. On the other hand, it is logical to treat the risk that banks will handle the guarantee honestly and that is why, at the same time, the fulfilment of the ČMZRB in relation to each specific bank is limited to 25 per cent of the loan portfolio. The proposed amount of the state guarantee of CZK 150 billion will thus enable up to CZK 600 billion to be served on the funds needed for important segments of our economy. So the guarantee for small medium-sized enterprises is 90 per cent, for the larger 80 per cent, and the portfolio guarantee is 150 at 25 per cent times 4 is 600 billion. In this context, allow me to respond in advance to the proposed amendments to the Act which is currently being tabled, according to which the ceiling of the portfolio guarantee is to be increased. The increase in the portfolio guarantee ceiling from 25 to 30 per cent, or even to 33, is an amendment from the ODS workshop and not only represents a higher risk of moral hazard, but will reduce, at the same amount of state budget entitlement, 150 billion, the size of banks guaranteed from 600 to 500 in the portfolio guarantee, 30 per cent or 450 at 33 per cent. This means that the amount of government-supported financing for enterprises will be reduced. That means, the higher the ceiling, the lower the volume of government aid for companies. In other words, fewer clients will be served. I have no idea where claims are coming from, which I read in the amendments and their justifications, that only 50 per cent of clients will be served under the set parameters. These claims are completely unfounded, although I did not obtain any such arguments or analyses from the bank in the history of the first law in modern history in very difficult negotiations to process this unique one. I stress that the parameters proposed by me or by the Ministry of Finance, proposed by the Government unanimously, were also consulted by the Czech National Bank as a supervisory and supervisory authority, which is absolutely sufficient in relation to the health of our banks. The increase in the portfolio guarantee ceiling will lead to the unwarranted whitening of the portfolio of our banks. That, however, was not the aim of my proposal as Secretary of Finance. Thank you for the opportunity to discuss this proposal in the accelerated procedure, because extending the possibility of granting credit is very, very important for business entities in this difficult time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u3	Thank you. With priority right, I'll ask President Chvojka. Then Minister Havlíček is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good evening, colleagues. We still have a lot of work to do, though I think, or I hope we won't be here until 3:30 last time. But anything is possible and, of course, our right and your right to debate here if necessary. But now it is necessary if we want to meet the laws that we want to approve and discuss so that we can continue to act after 19th and 21st hours. Therefore, I would like to propose, on behalf of two MPs - the ČSSD and the ANO movement - that the Chamber of Deputies act and vote on all proposals today after 7 p.m. and after 21 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u5	Thank you. It is a procedural proposal that I will immediately vote on. I've called you to the conference room several times. So I'm taking the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of us acting after 19th and 21st hours. Who's against it? Voting order number 70, 82 Members and Members registered, for 71, against no one. The motion was accepted. I will ask the Minister and Vice Prime Minister Havlíček to take the introductory words on this material. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice Prime Minister, allow me to say just a few words about this because it is true that, as the Ministry of Industry and Trade, we have participated in the requirements for this programme, which we generally consider to be one of the most important in terms of supporting the economy, not just in the short term, but in the medium and long term, because it is true that in those first stages we have to tackle the biggest problems, i.e. operational problems of companies, regardless of the support of businessmen, regarding support through wage compensation, cursarbeit, Antivirus etc., or various delays. We will have an extremely difficult way of restoring the economy and standing on our feet and without liquidity, without cash we have no chance of making it. Undoubtedly, most of you know that COVID-1, COVID-2, COVID Praha etc. programs have started, but it is not possible to continue the way these programs were handled as we have set them not bad in the faith, but because there was no other option within the ČMZRB. ČMZRB is a small bank, a bank that has always been designed to make a certain amount of guarantees in a given year. And just so you know, in four weeks' time, they have to do what they do for a year and a half. They are completely overloaded and swamped with thousands and thousands of applications, which are currently somewhere on the border of 20-23 billion crowns, which they have to deliver, respectively. approve in this so-called The original system, which was either by providing it directly or by providing it to individual banks with the guarantee of ČMZRB, however, so that ČMZRB must control each loan. That's what they're doing today. And even if she goes 24 hours a day 7 days a week, and even though we've strengthened her by a hundred people, of course, there's what we don't like, and it's too late that these clients wait three weeks, four weeks for their loan to be settled. In other words, in a situation where we should finance hundreds of billions of crowns like this, it is absolutely unthinkable that this is how it would be done. Liquidally, but of course, even technically, it wouldn't have been able to do it at all. So the only option is to switch to this, let's say, unique tool, we call it an area, or if you want a portfolio guarantee, when the state is ready to guarantee the volume that was set after long, difficult discussions to the limit of CZK 150 billion. Logically, the limit at this point will be prepared for commercial banks that will have a contract with the ČMZRB, and these banks will supply individual resources through their credit mechanisms, with, of course, the guarantee that is 80 or 90 percent from my point of view, or from our point of view, very reasonable and close to other countries that even give some 100 percent. My personal opinion is that 100 per cent is unnecessary, that it is necessary for the partner, the one who takes the loan, to have 10% participation, or 90 per cent for small and medium-sized companies and 80 per cent for medium-sized companies to think that it is logical and that it is correct. Thanks to this scheme we can get into the economy virtually. between entrepreneurs in the order of 500 and 600 billion resources, depending on what the multiplier effect will be set up there. Yeah, that's, uh, that's the thing that's difficult to negotiate. It is true that we have done so far with the multiplier effect fourfold, i.e. It was 25 percent. At this point, we are discussing whether to raise the risk of these banks to a higher degree, and it is clear that more and more companies are getting into trouble. And, of course, at this point, it is our intention to keep as little as possible in those networks that will not be unfunded. It's true that it's logically more advantageous for those banks if there's more money. This means that there is a way to discuss how we can possibly move this forward, but in any case, this programme is a programme that we should approve and help keep the cash in the business sector in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u7	With priority rights, I have Mr. President Jurečka. I'm gonna ask if he wants to do a debate or... Because we haven't decided anything yet. And the President of the Rakušan just wants some technical communication on the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u8	I'm so sorry, co-workers, co-workers. Thank you, Mr Vice-President, I won't delay. I just want to say, for the tape screen, that I have a vote in favour of number 62, and I voted against it. I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u9	Okay. The Committee on Budgets, to which the Government's bill was ordered, discussed it by the President's decision and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 832/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Pavel Juříček, inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and of any possible amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u10	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I must say that from the package that is coming, or which we have already voted in terms of the support of citizens, entrepreneurs, organisations, this is probably the absolutely crucial press, the fundamental law that the government is putting forward, and yesterday on the Committee on Budgets, the very government proposal that the Minister has already said was all voted out. When I read the law, I have to say as an entrepreneur - and here I have to say that I am not in conflict of interest because I, my company, do not have this law because the law concerns really small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, companies up to 250 employees and firms up to 500 employees - I must say that I was very, very surprised by the enormous generosity of what the government has prepared for small and medium-sized businesses. Yesterday I also said on the Committee on Budgets several reasons why I was surprised. Firstly, for companies with up to 250 employees, the loan guarantee is 90 per cent. In other words, it is cut off by 50 million, so that the company can really guarantee the state through the Czech Moravian Development Bank of 45 million. And the company, which has more than 250 employees up to 500, has 80 percent guarantee, i.e. $50 million $40 million. That's completely unusual. The second thing that really surprised me there was that it was all loans that could date back to 31. 12. 2020. This does not mean that it is now, now, but that those companies can touch these guarantees through the Czech Moravian Development Bank and through commercial banks by the end of this year. So all these companies can prepare enough to do that, and they can do both quickly and slower, depending on how they develop situations and their cash flow. And it's up to 2024. So it's not just a short-term point of view, but please, it's a medium-term point of view. And the last thing that surprised me was where I didn't expect the government to be willing to put 150 billion into it, and with the multiplier effect of 20 percent of the portfolio, which would actually de facto have bad loans in quotes, they would end up de facto on the state. And with the multiplier effect, if we agree this way, both the government's proposal and the system, the business system, and the entire business area, will get 600 billion crowns. [[18.50 hours]] There are several amendments, as the Minister has already signaled, although, as I said, yesterday on the Committee on Budgets there was a total consistency, yet today there were seven amendments that are in the system. One amendment under number 5090 is my colleague Martínek and I, as we have specified what debt is, and we have specified that debt is a principal. Because, of course, at a time when commercial banks are going to give some loans that will be guaranteed by the state, we obviously don't have an insight into whether it's going to be low, medium, or riskier. So that's the specification of my colleague Martínek's amendment. But other amendments are really there in terms of the amounts and let me quote them. A colleague named Onderka suggested a 30% rate. It is necessary to realise that, therefore, if we agreed to a 30% bank portfolio rate, the multiplier is no longer 1.4, but 1.33, and thus would not go into the system 600 billion, but only 499. That's a 100 billion difference. The next amendment is a Stanjura's amendment, which I do not see here, which proposes 33 percent. And if you take 33 percent multiplications to the 150s, that's one in three, and you don't get 600 billion, but only 450 billion crowns into the system. And now the reason it's loading. Because, of course, we have to admit, we're under a lot of pressure from businesses that are weaker, and mostly banks that obviously want to convert from the pie that might be reduced, so they want to keep it, or increase the portfolio of those less or more risky loans. But banks won't cut their own branches. That's unnecessary pressure on us now, on the Chamber of Deputies, from different sides, I'm learning this to reduce the pie. And I think it would be a historic mistake if you succumbed to those pressures. In the end, history would really add up because it makes a difference to have 600 billion in the system or 450. That's how many companies can be saved. But I agree with one part. Not all of them are going to get there, because those that were already useless and had the situation already deteriorated in the previous period, and now they can finish it, so of course these companies have a risk of getting into the system, because those commercial banks might not want to put them in it. That's right. But it is a crisis, unusual, it is not a demand crisis, it is not a supply crisis, and it is not the financial crisis that we experienced in 2008, 2009, 2010, it is a completely different crisis, but, nevertheless, every entrepreneur must count on some risks, whether financial risks or demand risks, or the risk of what we are experiencing now. I'm sorry, I'm a businessman, and I'm gonna lose a lot of money, too, but I'm not crying in front of anybody that we wouldn't survive, and it's just a question of how the individual companies behaved. If these companies don't have the right to live - I apologize when I say it as an entrepreneur, and I apologize to all entrepreneurs, and all those who can make money, I appreciate them immensely, and one time the euro too, but I think it would be a big mistake to give in to the pressures either from one side or from the other. I, of course, appreciate the Minister of Industry, Trade and Transport, the fact that he is afraid that the weaker companies might end up in that network and that there might be some restructuring of the Czech Republic in the course of business. Maybe that's true, but I'm asking you if at the cost of that, we'll just transfer the responsibility to the state and leave the banks in this direction freer hands? I do not think that what the Ministry of Finance has prepared is a very generous offer and that it is a good thing that we are going to multiplicate 1.4 rather than multiplicate 1.3, because then we have a better chance of those companies that, let's say, will be middle and better, so that they are substantially more, more supported than those that were weak and at this point are weak. And now it's up to us to decide how we look at it. These were the amendments that I had taken the liberty of commenting on in some way now, and then there are amendments that recommend that the government and the Czech Moravian Development Bank lead the money not to go abroad, to tax havens, respectively, so that the money does not end up in some strange ownership structures. I think that then we can return in a detailed debate on the various amendments, those accompanying resolutions put there by colleagues Michálek and Ferjenčík, colleague Kovářová, or others. So that's my comment for the beginning about what I actually wanted to say to you in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u11	Thank you. We will now decide whether to hold a general debate. I've summoned the MPs to the ballroom. I've been asked to wait a little bit... I think there will be no more of us here, so I am opening the vote on whether we will hold a general debate. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 71. Announced 85 Members and Members, for 62. The motion was accepted. I am opening up a general debate and first of all... Mr Kubíček is reporting here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Once again, I propose a reduction in the time to speak to the Member for five minutes in both the general and the detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u13	Thank you. The procedure? Later. So I'm going to vote on a reduction in the time to perform for five minutes, both in general and in a detailed debate. I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 72. Registered 85 Members, for 51, against 10. The motion was accepted. We are in a general debate, with priority rights, President Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u14	Thank you. I'd like to start by thanking KDU-ČSL for the material. At the time of COVID-1, I said that this would be a huge strain on the Czech-Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank, and it is necessary to create such parameters that the state would give the limits in the form of guarantees and let commercial banks with the equipment do the work, experience it and manage the burden of tens of thousands of applications in a relatively short time. I'm glad it's going to run, or it's going to run, so it's not going to run, but it's going to run. [[19.00 hours]] I don't want to wind up the debate, but I have one thing to say here. I have made an amendment to this press which I think - and again I would appeal to the government coalition to consider its support. Since I have been inspired by colleagues in Poland and now also in Denmark who have come up with it, and it gives me logic and I think it should give logic to all reasonable people, if the state is helping in this difficult time, it should help companies that do not reside in tax havens that do not abuse situations where tax havens have significantly better conditions than e.g. in the Czech Republic from the point of view of taxes. And if they live there long-term and are there, then let them turn to the governments of these countries, these tax havens. And I also propose that companies that might want to make dividends abroad this year or next year, or buy their own shares, are excluded from government support under the COVID and Antivirus programme. I do not see the logic why the taxpayer of the Czech Republic should be helping a company today, which has long benefited from the situation of its registered office in tax havens, or why the state should support a company that will want to raise its funds from profits on dividends to another state this year or next year. So it's a fairly simple design, it has no direct impact on the changes to the parameter of this design, but it has to do with it and I think it has a head and heel. And I would like you to consider supporting this amendment, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u15	Thank you. With priority rights, Madam President Markéta Pekarová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u16	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. The news report provoked me to react first. I must say that the Member, I think, has not fully respected what the report is supposed to be, and has committed his own assessments there. I'm sure he has the right to do that in his contribution. But in order to say such words as that, in fact, when I paraphrase it very freely, this situation separates the grain from the chaff, I will allow myself to stand up for all those who had to close their businesses completely in mid-March and cannot operate completely. All this time we're talking about compensation, direct aid to these people, which the opposition often considers to be completely inadequate. We're proposing specific things to those without a crown of income today who have to pay high costs that are fixed, and now you're going to tell them that at least we're going to see who has a chance to survive and who doesn't. That's what I think is outrageous. This is really about thousands of companies, thousands of businessmen, and please, they don't deserve this. They didn't get into this situation like the whole Republic did with their own fault. There's just some circumstance that we didn't want, didn't summon, virtually. No one is directly responsible for her, but neither are they responsible for having to be closed now. That they can't produce, that they can't sell, that they can't provide their services they've provided so far. Then I will take the liberty of responding to COVID I, COVID II's credit instruments. It did not contain Prague, there was no possibility for Prague entrepreneurs to participate. That is why Prague's representatives for TOP 09 have negotiated very intensively so that the Prague business sector, which, by the way, is not some pragocentrism, is involved significantly in GDP production in the Czech Republic, with one quarter. We shouldn't forget that. Which feels the impact significantly, because the large tourism sector is, of course, linked to the capital as well. And that has to do with a number of other establishments, services that are now closed, whether it's gastro and others. This is a group of businessmen who, so far, have been unable to touch the loans from the help that the government has prepared, but could have touched the loans that were taken out in ten minutes this week. The program was only thanks to the city of Prague itself. I thank them for triggering it this way for the 600 million crowns that were there, but it is, as you can see, after ten minutes taken apart, woefully little. And Minister Havlíček promised in the negotiations that the state would contribute another 400 million, and that the promise had been withdrawn. So it's only obvious that we're here to say that when COVID Prague is here, it's due to the capital city of Prague, its representatives and its representatives. And COVID III, which should already, hopefully, relate to them and is to come to the turn of April and May, so it is just too late for many. Consider how long they've been in this situation and how they have to fight it now. So just so that we don't forget these things to sound here, because it's just impossible to let go, even though it's a region more generally richer than the rest of the Republic, but it's not possible to let one part of the businessmen fall just because they're in the capital. But they also often have higher costs here, we also take that into account. And that is nothing at all against entrepreneurs from other cities, from other regions, where the situation has also fallen heavily, who also need our help. But it must be stressed here that it is precisely the Prague entrepreneurs that are not yet sufficiently supported by this state in these instruments. And I, as a representative of Prague in this chamber, would like to draw attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u17	Thank you. First of all, Minister Havlíček applied with priority rights. The rapporteur then wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u18	Only briefly to the defense of Prague. It's not exactly that. COVID I, Prague had exactly half, i.e. 500 million went to Prague from one billion. Covid II could not have been there because it was from European funds. And unfortunately, the capital of Prague promised almost three weeks to deliver the money, I repeat, three weeks, and only last or this week did it sign, respectively. It was written this week, so the Prague could start. It's not like Prague does it. This is done by the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank. And it's not that it's the money of Prague, please nicely. That's everyone's money, and they're put there from all sources. That's exactly what Prague has for. And what Prague has in its accounts today and that it only put 400 million crowns there, I consider to be a bad report. Sorry, 600. Six hundred million crowns. The 600 million crowns generated at least 1.5 billion crowns, could have been two weeks earlier. And that's why we didn't put any more in there because we were waiting for this meeting, and we're running all the money straight to COVID III. That means it makes no sense to put more money there today, when unfortunately COVID III will be possible before what actually happened in Prague by being two weeks to three weeks late, because there were still some meetings going on, approval, now individual clubs in Prague were just overreacting, PR, who will cost more, who will stand there less - or just confusion in Prague was there. bohužel, and it's a shame. But again, to be honest with them, the fact that it broke down in ten minutes, that's completely irrelevant. The 1.5 billion went down in ten minutes because the banks had already prepared the loans in the crowd, that is, if it were tripled, it would be broken down in 20-30 minutes. It's just that they put it in the same big batch. So Prague could have been faster and it could have been done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u19	Thank you. The rapporteur has signed up for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u20	Thank you. I've just been in business for 30 years, ladies and gentlemen, and I appreciate every entrepreneur, as I said. I just wanted to say that those who have had problems in the past so that they do not fall on the guarantees that the government is actually creating now through the Czech Moravian Development Bank. That would be all. I certainly wouldn't want to denunciate anyone in any way and separate the grain from the chaff. Not at all. I just said -- and sometimes here in the House is missing when there's a transmitter and there's no receiver, so the receiver can't hear what they say -- I just said that those who had a problem with the coronavirus, so why should they be saved in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u21	Thank you. With priority rights, President Pekarová, Adamová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u22	I apologize to all those duly registered, but I cannot forgive myself for responding to the Minister. That Freudian misrepresentation, when instead of 600 he said 400, that's exactly the 400 million you promised and then you didn't. And the fairy tale you're trying to create around here right now, it really doesn't cover the fact that the help could have come much earlier because they should already have the opportunity to ask for it this week and they wouldn't have to wait for the COVID III, which we don't even know the exact date when it's going to start. [[unintelligible]] It's just that many of us are playing for days today. Not just for weeks. Many really play for days. They're releasing people because they don't know if they can continue their business. That's just the way it is. That's pure fact and reality. And here with these different explanations, as long as it's taken, please don't make it pretty clear that you just didn't keep that promise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u23	Thank you. President Kalousek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u24	Thank you. I won't hold up. I just accept the explanation of the rapporteur, Mr Juříček, that those who had a major problem with the Chinese virus should not be saved from viral money. That makes sense. I hope we can remember that when we're dealing with such titles as SmartWings or some other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u25	Thank you. And if no one with priority rights is allowed, Mrs Kovářová is duly enrolled in the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u26	Thank you for the floor. Excuse me, I would like to comment on the proposal for this law, respectively. this amendment, and I would note that we are pleased that such an option exists. And we will only hope firmly that the problems that have proved to be with COVIDE I and II will not be reflected in this promising bill proposal and these possibilities of helping small, medium and medium-sized firms with up to 500 employees. So much for the bill we'll support. But at the same time, allow me to present a resolution that we would like to add to this law, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to ensure that programmes to assist commercial corporations in reducing the negative effects caused by SARS-CoV-2 are not accessible to commercial corporations based in countries listed in the EU list of non-cooperating tax jurisdictions." In recent days, the government has launched several programs to support companies that are facing the consequences of government measures in the fight against SARS-CoV-2's pandemic. In our opinion, what we say in this resolution should be achieved only by companies located in the Czech Republic. With this step, it would ensure that the funds from government programmes will be returned in the future through direct taxes to our state budget, thereby helping them to cope with the crisis more easily. Firms that tax elsewhere are not entitled to Czech State aid, at least not in full. If the state supported companies based in tax havens, it would be a big blow for Czech taxpayers. A similar measure, I note, is now being taken by other European countries. Poland and Denmark have announced it so far. Those countries where firms pay zero or very low taxes are considered tax havens. In 2019 the number of Czech companies based in tax havens was estimated at more than 12,000. I would therefore ask you to support this resolution. And I will join the House document in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u27	Thank you. Next up, Mr Onderka is entered into the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, every once in a while, there will be a law in the Chamber of Deputies that has a chance to cross the political spectrum, whether we have a pandemic or not. I am convinced that the law on granting the State guarantee is one of them. The right-wing part of the political spectrum wants to support entrepreneurs - mostly. I'm stressing the word mostly. The left-wing part of the political spectrum wants to support employees - mostly. And they just can't do it without each other. Employees need entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs need employees. And I think that this Act on Support, I will stress, the economy and economy of the Czech Republic is the law that connects us right now. I think the law is very well written. I am convinced that the Ministry of Finance has done a good job here. However, despite everything, I took the liberty of proposing an amendment and I would like to quote part of the explanatory memorandum. The parameters of the guarantee provided are the key element of the whole proposal. The limitation of the overall performance, the so-called portfolio limit for guarantees of 25 per cent, will force banks to carry out a more stringent risk assessment in granting loans to companies affected by the effects associated with the coronavirus itself, more precisely with the Coronavirus crisis, which may lead to a paradox where financing will be more affordable for companies that are less economically disabled and the most needed companies that, thanks to this funding, would be able to survive the economic crisis, will not be able to provide such financing to the bank due to the proposed parameters. When I simplify it, the bigger the guarantee of the state, the more positive the bank, of course, evaluates its clients. This means, in this case, companies in the Czech Republic, which will thus have more credit and will have more opportunity to draw, better to touch these funds from individual banks, as the present Minister of Industry has told us. Interest across the political spectrum should be about achieving as many companies as possible for such funds. I cannot agree, through Mr President, with my colleague Juříček, who says - freely translated - why we should save companies that have already had problems from Coronavirus. I think that at this moment and in this situation, if we do not want to get into a strong crisis, from which we will be staggering for several years, that we must try to save any functioning companies in the Czech Republic in order to reduce the enormous risk of large unemployment that the Czech Republic may face in the future. That is why I have taken the liberty of submitting an amendment which increases this guarantee from 25 to 30 per cent. According to the estimate, there may be an increase in the receipt of applications from companies, i.e. those companies that can touch these funds by 10 to 15 percent. I would ask you to support this amendment. And I will, of course, join him in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u29	Thank you. Next, Mr Ferjenčík is entered into the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the outset, I must clarify a little of the rapporteur's words, because I did not vote for this proposal yesterday, and I did not vote against it either. I see this proposal as a step in the right direction, because the economy certainly needs to support it, but there are several question marks. The first question mark is the issue of risk distribution between banks and the state. And in our opinion, the original proposal is already extremely generous to the banks. There are loans with 90% government guarantee, or 80% government guarantee. I appreciate that this applies only to small and medium-sized enterprises, which is definitely positive. I would like to ask the petitioners what it is like for companies that are part of the holding, whether they will also be entitled, or whether it is limited to, say, the top parts of the corporate structure. But that's actually a technical detail. [[19.20 hours]] But we certainly welcome this. But 80 to 90 percent of the government's guarantee for individual loans is just so generous. In fact, the only criterion that ensures in some way that it is not a net operating subsidy to the banking sector is precisely the criterion of how much the percentage of the share will be paid by the bank's portfolio. In our opinion, it is appropriate to start at 25 percent and only if it is confirmed that it is not enough, it may be increased. But increasing it from a spot to 30% is just a huge subsidy to the banking sector. And I'll think of it when the ČSSD talks about bank tax again, when the ČSSD says how these greedy banks made money here and they're taking them abroad, so I'll remember this amendment, where the same ČSSD here presents a huge subsidy to the banking sector, which I disagree with. I think the conditions set up against banks are extremely helpful already. And the second big question mark is who gets the support. In my opinion, the state should publish to whom it has given the state guarantee, because really those guarantees are actual grants. In my opinion, when the state here guarantees loans for tens of millions of crowns, where it provides a guarantee of 80 to 90 per cent, it is normally priceable on the market, in fact today with the COVID I program, COVID II, the development bank normally states and awards it in the de minimis system, so it is appropriate for citizens to know exactly the same for this guarantee programme who they are sending the money to through the guarantees. So for us there is a fundamental requirement that our amendment be adopted, which ensures transparency of who receives these subsidies. One thing is the risk distribution between the state and the banks. It is already generous, and we believe that the amendment by Mr Onderka, or by colleagues from ODS who want to increase it, is moving it extremely in favour of the banking sector. And the second question is the transparency of the system. And there we would very much welcome you to accept our amendment, which deals with transparency, who gets the money, and it will be clear who these state resources are, and we are talking about 150 billion, drawing on them. So that's our two big reservations. And one more comment. I am very pleased that Tomáš Martínek's proposal was accepted to clarify that the guarantees actually concern the principal and not interest, because there was a great potential risk. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u31	Thank you. Mr Martínek is also enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u32	Thank you for the floor. To begin with, I am glad that the Ministry of Finance responded quickly when I drew his attention to the Committee on Budgets on legislative inaccuracies and prepared an amendment that we are now submitting with the rapporteur, Mr Juříček. I would like to ask for his support just because, if it had not been approved, there might be a risk, for example, that a company that would receive a loan from a commercial bank and go bankrupt would be in the event of a higher interest that banks would probably require in the event of risks, there would be a risk that the State could pay even more to a commercial bank than it lent to that company. So even from this point of view, it is certainly reasonable to accept this amendment. In addition, I would also like to say that I am putting forward an accompanying resolution to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. Specifically, these are things that the Czechoslovak Guarantee and Development Bank should certainly do. The Czech-Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank is owned by ministries, i.e. it represents the government and will determine the terms of the framework contracts with commercial banks. So I am putting forward an accompanying resolution that should define the framework for how framework contracts should be set up, and the government through ministries and organisations should ensure that these proposals are accepted and in framework contracts so that taxpayers' money is protected from abuse and, at the same time, that all public taxpayers are transparently informed. I'd like to read it: Chamber of Deputies I. Calls on the Government to ensure that the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank, a. s., will only provide credit guarantees for credit applicants who pay due taxes in the Czech Republic, do not abuse tax havens, do not buy back their own shares for the duration of the loan guarantee, and do not pay dividends or over-rewards to owners of the company's management; II. Calls on the Government to ensure that the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank, a.s., is informed transparently of all the guarantees granted to individual loans, including the beneficial owners of the loaned companies, on publicly available websites within 15 days of the granting of the guarantee. Support for companies affected by the crisis is necessary for the future of the Czech economy. However, we consider it necessary that only companies that contribute to the public budget in the long term and who use their liquidity in a time of crisis solely for operational and investment purposes. From our point of view, it is neither fair nor incentive for companies that avoid tax obligations in the Czech Republic to enjoy the same level of support as companies that pay taxes properly in the Czech Republic. For example, the Tax Justice Network, a long-term organization dealing with tax evasion and paradise, calls for such a condition. At the same time, such a condition would not be unique in Europe. Denmark also makes public aid conditional on the absence of tax havens in the ownership structure of supported firms and the non-payment of dividends during the period of public support. The limited public aid capacity should be directed exclusively to firms in the most difficult difficulties. This is not the case for companies with sufficient liquidity to pay dividends or over-rewards to the company's management. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u33	Thank you. The debate is also signed up for... President Michálek, Mr Juránek will wait a little longer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u34	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Government, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to update the amendment which concerns precisely the transparency of knowing who are the beneficiaries of the funds secured by this way through the Czech Republic. I have turned to the Government of the Czech Republic on this matter, so that we can ensure that the aid is actually directed towards the legal persons we consider priority, and the previous speakers have spoken about it, and I am fully committed to what they said. And I also pointed out that there is a need for the government to somehow record who the beneficiaries are. I would therefore like to inform you that the Prime Minister replied by letter dated 21 April 2020, where he stated that ČMZRB, as a bank entity licensed by the CNB, always requires information about the beneficial owner from its clients prior to the granting of the preferential loan or guarantee, as required by Act No. 253/2008 Coll., on certain measures against the legalization of proceeds from crime and terrorist financing, as amended. Furthermore, ČMRZB strictly follows the decree of the Czech National Bank No. 67/2018 Coll., on certain requirements for the system of internal principles of procedure and control measures against the legalization of proceeds from crime and terrorist financing, known as the AML Decree. This information is provided by legal persons and natural persons and entrepreneurs to the bank. The Prime Minister further stated in his letter that he could assure us that ČMZRB, as an institution subject to the regulation of Act No. 21/1992 Coll., on Banks and Standard Banking Supervision of the Czech National Bank, works on a fully professional basis with an emphasis on highly sophisticated risk management. [[19.30 hours]] So our proposal, which is to publish the guarantees provided and the final owners, or the real owners, as Czech legislation says, on the website within 15 days of providing collateral, will certainly not be a problem for ČMZRB if it is sophisticated and well managed in this way. It would really only require the obligation of the data they already have, so they would publish once every two weeks, probably at the beginning, if it were very fast. I think this is also consistent with the electoral programmes that we have run with, in which transparency has been highlighted. Specifically, the YES movement in the manifesto talks about each crown being transparent, in the book written by Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. I don't think there are practical problems that raise doubts, either, because, as I said, that control is already being carried out today, so it is, of course, identifiable who is the real owner of a certain legal person or an arrangement that does not have legal personality, such as mutual funds, etc. This is determined in accordance with Section 4 of Law No. 253/2008 Sb. and there is also a methodology published by the non-profit organization Transparency International and is traceable on the website. So there is a very specific description of how to arrive at the correct identification of the beneficial owner of the legal person, so that the provision of this collateral is really transparent. I therefore dare ask you to support this proposal. This is to add one paragraph to the cited law, which states that the bank will publish data on the loaned one that draws the loan in accordance with Section 1 (1) (a) of the Banking Act. (c) one, the amount of the loan and the amount of the guarantee granted by the bank. Then there are some deadlines to make it applicable to all the cases mentioned. At the same time, for the sake of simplification, it is explicitly mentioned that the Ministry of Justice will allow the bank remote access to data about the beneficial owner. That means it's going to be very simple. They can take it remotely, or verify it if the data they get from the bank doesn't fit, but I suppose there shouldn't be any problem. At the same time, we have dealt with this publication only for a certain period of time, and for this purpose it is envisaged that at the end of the year when the collateral would be extinguished, for example by paying the loan, after 60 days from the end of the calendar year when this occurred, the data would be removed from the website. I think that this would substantially strengthen the public's confidence that the funds will be distributed transparently to those who really need them, and it will not end, as we have historically infamous experience, for example, with the Czech Consolidation Agency, where it is not supposed to end. Thank you for your attention and support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u35	Thank you. Now, for the general debate, Mr Juránek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u36	Mr President, Madam Minister and you of the other ministers who are here, I would like to say that this is absolutely a turning point and that we are at this very moment a little bit ahead and a little bit further away, and I would like to give a new perspective. The one look I'd like to add to that is that times are changing. This pandemic, which has happened worldwide, is fundamentally changing the whole business around the world. And I was hoping that in some way this would be able to shift our government and even our Chamber of Deputies, and now we have an opportunity to do that, because, in the course of changing times, companies will also change and their content will change, and from this point of view, it is extremely important that significant funds be put in there. And I'll talk about that 600 billion. is a much more significant sum than 450 if we were to accept some amendments. I am asking you now to think about this from the point of view that we need companies that are able to navigate in the new era and move them forward. Small and medium-sized enterprises are always considered to be the first motorcycle to start major business changes. That is why I very much welcome this proposal here, and I would like to say very strongly that when I counted it, 25 per cent, I came to a lower number, which would start from the point of view of the quality of the businesses that are going to get into it. I take it there's an agreement, I take it that 25% is a very significant amount, and I want to point out that we should also think about the quality of those who move forward. When we raise it to 30-33 percent, first of all, we're losing the significant amount and the significance of that amount is somewhere, it's hard to estimate, but 600 billion. is definitely already in the band, while 450 billion, there is not certain that the amount is sufficient, so it is very important that we hold on to it when we have this idea so that we can move it forward. I stress, I'm a woodsman, and I think ahead. With us in the woods, it's the shortest thought for ten years. And this is the first thought that goes further than the everyday problems that we're dealing with right now. And that's why I very much dare to support the 25 percent. Please do not accept any amendments that are made in good faith, but will greatly reduce the effectiveness of this programme and the possibilities that I see a little further there and which have not yet been discussed here. That's why I'm begging you. Try it really - a colleague of Stanjura, please do the math and look at the performance of some of these companies. I also want to stress that the amount that we are putting into this is also to a certain extent support for banks. We need the money that's in those banks to somehow get into that circulation. We don't have them in the budget otherwise. But on the other hand, we need to find the right peace. And I take it that 25 percent of what I've heard on the budget committee has also come up with some negotiation, and I don't think we should give in to the amount that those banks are going to have to put into it. I am going back to this again and I will repeat it again, please, we need that, after the start of the new era of new businesses, new businesses, to support, when we are putting state money in it, those companies that will help us start our industry in the future, with the help of solving the problems that we are dealing with in the framework of the coronavirus. Thank you for paying my attention, and please let us stay at 25%.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u37	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. Even without priority rights, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u38	I am not a banker, for the Minister, a professional programmer, but I will nevertheless make an amendment. It is also an alternative to the amendment tabled by Mr Onderka, and I will argue with Mr Juránek. The aim of this measure, and we discussed it today with another bill, is to increase liquidity in our companies. I think if I talk in general, I won't talk about specific companies, that we just need it, and we need the money from our healthy banks to get to the companies. Personally, and I am not alone, I can admit that I have discussed this and discussed it with the Czech Banking Association, which is professionally representing banks, I think it is correct to say, and some colleagues have already said this, when I look at the comparison of the surrounding countries, so the approach in these types of aid is more generous, whether we take Germany, Austria, France, Italy or our northern neighbor Poland, where they do not actually work at all with those portfolio limits, but only applications and very often there is 90 percent for smaller businesses and 80 for larger, but sometimes even 100 percent. [[Nesroz.]] [[19.40 hours]] Okay. The government decided to go the way of this limit of the entire portfolio, the proposed percentage is 25 and according to calculations and assumptions and experience of the Czech Banking Association this means that about half of these applications would be rejected. And there may be a paradoxical situation that more successful in applications will be those who are less affected than those who are more affected and need more help. This may, paradoxically, occur because when the limit is lower, it simply tightens the view of credit risks and accordingly the individual applications will be evaluated. Mr Onderka, if I have read his amendment correctly, he proposes 30 per cent. I suggest that the amount be 33 percent. In that case, according to estimates by the Czech Banking Association, this means that up to 65 percent of the applicants could succeed. It is not assumed that everyone would succeed, with the risk even with the 33 percent share of the portfolio framework being distributed between the bank and the state. I would like to ask the rapporteur when he is preparing a procedure for us to proceed logically in this case. This means that my amendment, which raises it to 33, would first be voted on if it had not been adopted, then a 30 per cent amendment to Mr Onderka. We, as well as non-verbal communication with Mr Onderka, who agrees. And it seems logical to me that the House has a choice. Because if 33 doesn't pass, I will, of course, vote for 30. But I'd like to have the chance to vote for the 33. Otherwise, we will support the bill as the Citizen's Democratic Party Club, even if the amendments fail, that is what I want. Because there's always a better parameter from our point of view than a zero parameter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u39	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. I see no one, I end the general debate. Is there interest in any final words - Madam Secretary or rapporteur? Is anyone listening to me? Not interested. I am opening up a detailed debate in which Mrs Věra Kovářová is the first to sign up. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to sign up for an accompanying resolution on the Government Bill on the granting of a State guarantee, etc. I have justified this resolution in the general debate and you will find it under House document 5048, so I am signing up for this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u41	Thank you. Next to the general debate, Mr Onderka. Excuse me, in detail.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to sign up for Amendment 5005, which I justified in the debate, with the fact that I will just supplement - social democracy is really about employees. If we're talking about a 10% increase and this support is supposed to be 250 employees or more, for 500 employees, then simply calculate how many employees we're going to save in the Czech Republic. I humbly ask you, let us support this amendment together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u43	Thank you. In a detailed debate, Mr Martínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u44	Thank you. So I am reporting, as I have already said, to the joint amendment which we are proposing together with Mr Pavel Juříček, who is like House document 5019. And I also report to the accompanying resolution, which should now have banks, virtually. The Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank will indicate how it should prepare the framework agreement. But the concrete form of how it will be implemented, the accompanying resolution, should remain on it. It is under House document 5022. I'd just rather read. "Deputy Chamber of Deputies I. Calls on the Government to ensure that the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank, a. s., will only provide credit guarantees for credit applicants who pay due taxes in the Czech Republic, do not abuse tax havens, do not buy back their own shares for the duration of the loan guarantee and do not pay dividends or over-rewards to owners of the company's management; II. Calls on the Government to ensure that the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank, a.s., is informed transparently of all the guarantees granted to individual loans, including the beneficial owners of the loaned companies on publicly available websites within 15 days of the granting of the guarantee.' Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u45	Thank you. Mr Jurečka first applied for priority rights. Then I see President Stanjuru and I assume that President Michálek will follow. There.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u46	Thank you. So I want to sign up for an amendment under number 5020, which I have justified here in the general debate and which concerns a very similar subject, and this is preventing support for companies located in tax havens, or who want to make dividends abroad this year or next year. Thank you for any support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u47	Thank you. Mr Stanjura for a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u48	I want to formally sign up for my amendment, which I just justified in the general debate and is mentioned in House document number 5047.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u49	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I hereby refer to the amendment which is conducted in the system under the number of House document 5003. This amendment aims to make available transparently on the website the basic data on bank credit recipients provided by the Czechoslovak Guarantee and Development Bank, for which the State provides a high financial guarantee. The interest in the disclosure of data on these beneficiaries is based on the fact that the State financial guarantee is provided on taxpayers' money. Therefore, it should also be clear to whom the funds end. This is an amendment which I propose together with my colleagues Mikuláš Ferjenčík and Tomáš Martínek. Detailed justification is recorded in the system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u51	Thank you. I ask if anybody else has a detailed debate on this point. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's an interest in final words. The rapporteur, Madam Secretary? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u52	Well, thank you for the floor, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry, I'm just gonna get some notes here. There. I'll do it again. I'm not gonna stretch it out long enough just to make it clear, because I understand that the material is very complicated. It was difficult for us, too, because we didn't find any role models that we could take off from. We were looking for foreign patterns. That's where we got inspired. Germany, for example, fell here. I'll tell you what we might have found abroad. It's hard to judge because, for example, Germany, which gives up to 100% guarantee, has its bank, which I therefore very much envy KfW... Or I always get it wrong. And just the bank... but maybe they also have such a magical thing that they're gonna put up a bounty on that guarantee, one, two percent. I'd like that, too. I, for one, appealed... I'll repeat the parameters, and then I'll tell you how it turned out. So we agreed - that was the proposal of the Ministry of Finance, on which we were hard behind it, so that they would simply be priorized by small and medium-sized companies, which means zero to 250 employees. There will be a guarantee, a State guarantee of 90 per cent. Then the companies 250 to 500 will be distinguished, where the guarantee will be 80 per cent maximum. The loan is operational, it's limited by the amount of 50 million, and that's what the guarantee for 45 comes from, tops, and 40 in its second option. So this was the one thing that we stood for to really spread out these companies because especially the small and medium-sized ones have the biggest problems. And a small and medium-sized company according to European rules is up to 250 employees. Another thing that we discussed very hard and discussed was the ceiling on interest. Because I still had a condition for that part of the guarantee that the state would grant to make the interest more advantageous. I just gave this up after a week, and I'm saying it honestly because we weren't able to figure out how to do it, because it's just not possible to have two interest on one loan, and I understood that. I wanted some average, there were arguments that the average that we would accept, like I don't know repo plus 4, or some kind of repo plus 3, that it's just gonna last big banks, but it's gonna pay off small ones. And so on. I mean, after a week of discussion, when we started every morning, I just gave up where we left off tonight. [[19.50 hours]] I gave up all my efforts to get some discounts, because it wouldn't have been known what the discount would have depended on. I gave up on all this. I didn't give in to a single thing, and that's 25 percent. I didn't give in to that, for that reason, because the government finally decided - we worked with a sum of 50 billion. With the fact that we said we'd try it and eventually come up with another law. Finally, the government decided to put 150 billion there, because even the banks say that - I mean the value of the guarantee - the banks say it will be gone quickly. Of course the ČMZRB will give it after tranches, it won't be immediately, we still agree on the system that it would choose, whether it will be based on market share or if we simply create some conditions there, we still match them. Of course, the Czech National Bank will enter it as a supervisory and supervisory authority, so we expect the Czech National Bank to monitor and check after some tranche and say how it sees it and, if necessary, how it is with the capital adequacy of the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank, etc., because at the moment no one knows what it will bring. The 25 percent, which means 150 billion that the government has decided, corresponds to 25 percent of the portfolio guarantee, means that times four we are at 600 billion, and we saw this as a very good thing that banks put into the system, into the economy, 500 billion. That means every amendment that the gentlemen have quoted here, whether it is Mr Onderka or President Stanjura, basically means reducing the amount that goes into the economy. In one case it's 450, in one case it's 490 billion. instead of the 600. Of course, they sounded from the banks, because they worked with that percentage of 33 percent - 30 didn't fall, it was said here from Mr. Onderka, we worked with 25 - and it was said that the lower the percentage, the less companies will fall through the throat, or that fewer companies will reach it. Of course I'd be sorry, I certainly wouldn't want that. I wouldn't particularly like that with those small and medium-sized companies. That's why I asked for some analysis. I wanted some background, some analysis to show up. So when the queues, as the banks said, are standing, there's no such analysis. We need to realize that we're in the same boat. We are interested in helping our citizens, our Czech companies, because we don't want who knows who to buy us once, but banks definitely need us, too, because we need each other, they're the clients of the banks, they're our citizens, our Czech companies and at the same time our bank clients, so we're on the same boat and I'm glad banks will do it because banks are the only ones capable of doing it. I was willing to discuss the parameter in the preparation. Finally, the government approved it unanimously. However, I did not get the 33 percent argument - there were actually two numbers in the game, 33 and 25 - no supporting documents. So I don't even know personally, I don't even understand the argument, because the bank will be judging the credit, and it will be up to her how she sets the criteria, and I think that if there's such a high state guarantee that she can set them more benevolently, which she will certainly do. There's been a lot of questions going on here. The conditions are basically the only one. The conditions are that there is a certain number of employees, either up to 250 or from 250 to 500. You know that the Chamber of Deputies approved, and the Senate approved, and the President, the COVID IV, or EGAP, has already signed it, which will be for companies over 500 employees. So this is basically the only condition. About the suggestions that fell here. I will certainly support a resolution to simply show goodwill, or to suggest support, I do not vote, but I simply cannot support a breakthrough in banking secrecy. I'm saying it openly. It's a relationship between a bank and a client, and if we put in some condition that bank secrets break and that it's going to be posted somewhere, it's going to make it harder for applications, and it's going to discourage a whole bunch of companies. So this really -- we've been debating it, too, it's not like we heard the problem for the first time yesterday. I also said that on the budget committee that we discussed the subject because it sounds like it couldn't go to some tax havens. We even have a restriction on the 25th that it's tied to pension insurance, so no one can get it from a tax haven from a natural person, but here it's just a relationship between a bank and a client. And that's about it. Thank you for your support. The law is very important. I noticed that everyone would support him, I don't know about the SPD, but all of you who performed, so you supported him. Whatever parameter you support, I will, of course, be grateful for the one we have proposed, but on the other hand, it is important that the law sees the light of day, so that it is effective and that banks can move quickly, because companies need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u53	Thank you. The rapporteur's final words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u54	Thank you for the floor. I still wanted to add two things that preceded the law, or are part of this. The first thing is to realize that we have read a law that was about the Czech National Bank and about our commercial banks, how the parameters of evaluation of individual companies are released. Those companies that were in the default are in stage 2, and that were stage 2, are stage 1 today. In other words, this is the sieve that could then be as broad as possible. And the second thing that hasn't come out yet. It needs to be realized that if we actually vote 25 percent, as the government's proposal sounds, that means 600 billion. CZK to the business environment. And this is roughly half of all loans given by banks in the Czech Republic. This is so important that I think that we are really going to help this business environment incredibly. If we really vote for the smaller percentages or the higher percentages of guarantees, we need to realize that 450 billion. It's not half of the total volume of business loans anymore, but it's only a third. And I think that it is also a significant factor for us to realize that these companies should achieve as much as possible, and that by the Czech National Bank, and we voted them out that the parameters were released, so today, more companies are going through the sieve. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-22-ps2017-045-02-009-006.u55	Thank you. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. On the basis of the agreement, I am interrupting this point until further items have been discussed at second reading, which have been proposed in the accelerated negotiations. Then we'll go back to reading third. Opening point
