ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-008-034.u1	34. Government bill amending Act No. 219/2003 Coll., on the circulation of seeds and planting plants and on the amendment of certain laws (the Law on the circulation of seeds and plantings), as amended, and other related laws /house print 553/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman. Please take the floor. And please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-008-034.u2	Hello, Mr President, Madame Members. Allow me to introduce a government bill amending Act No. 219/2003 Coll., on the circulation of seeds and planting plants and on the amendment of certain laws. The main objective of the proposed adjustment is to regulate the area of circulation of hop propagating material. Requirements are laid down for hop propagating material and obligations to be fulfilled by the supplier of such propagating material. The proposals for amendments shall be based on the experience of the Agricultural Central Audit and Testing Institute. The current legislation has been revised and a number of provisions have been clarified to reflect current practice. It is also proposed to amend the Act on the Protection of Plant Variety Rights, where legislative technical adjustments are made, in particular, resulting from the knowledge associated with the application of the Act. In the Act on Administrative Fees, it is proposed to withdraw from item 90 the fee for the grant of the licence to the register, as the Act on the Protection of Variety Rights also abolishes the registration of the licence in the register. The draft amendment was continuously discussed with the parties concerned for which the proposed amendments are acceptable. I would therefore like to ask you, at the same time, for a short hearing in the committees for 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-008-034.u3	Thank you. I've noted the motion. I now ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Balaštíková, to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-008-034.u4	Thank you for the floor. Hello, colleagues and colleagues. The current legislative regulation on this issue includes several areas. It is an area of seed circulation and seed, certification of propagation crops and propagating material and the area of registration of plant varieties. These are currently regulated at the level of our legal order by the Law on the circulation of seeds and seed and seven other decrees. Another area is the protection of plant varieties rights governed by the Act on the Protection of Variety Rights. The amendment tabled amends three laws, namely the Law on the circulation of seeds and seeds, the Act on the Protection of Plant Variety Rights and the Act on Administrative Charges. The aim of the proposed bill is to clarify and supplement certain legal provisions on the basis of application practice requirements. The proposed modifications respond to problems related to the quality of hop propagating material of the variety Žatec semi-rane redberry and its trading between individual bodies. The proposed adjustment will ensure greater control and supervision of the production and putting into circulation of hop propagating material. The competent administrative authority in this sector is the central agricultural control and testing institute, which is the administrative and organisational component of the State managed by the Ministry of Agriculture. Further amendments to this Act are addressed, in particular, by the State's delegation of private bodies to carry out shows of propagating crops and to issue evidence of their recognition, to take samples of propagating material, to carry out laboratory analyses of samples taken, to lay down conditions for the possibility of abolishing and granting mandates and establishing new institutes, such as the field of propagating material of hops and the conditions for putting into circulation, the obligations of the supplier of propagating material of hops and the requirements for the characteristics of propagating material, the specification of certain procedural provisions and the conditions under which the Institute may register the variety in question. In the field of plant variety protection rights, the need to add to the law the applicant's obligation to grant legal protection to the variety and to demonstrate where so-called maintenance breeding is carried out and who is the keeper of the variety so that the Institute can properly examine the characteristics of the variety which the applicant intends to protect in the future and also compare it with existing legally protected varieties. Certain provisions concerning the management and granting of protective rights and the clear and transparent procedure of the Institute are also clarified in certain situations that normally occur in application practice. In this context, it is further proposed to amend the tariff of the Act on Administrative Charges. The field of hop propagating material is regulated in the same way as the area of vine propagating material in Section 23 of the Law on the circulation of seeds and propagating material, but the vine has special exceptions in European legislation. The negative economic and financial impact of the proposed legislation on the state budget and other public budgets is not expected. The financial impact on the business environment related to the new obligations cannot be precisely calculated at present, but it is expected to cost tens of thousands of crowns. I recommend that this law be released for second reading and order the agricultural committee to be discussed as a committee of guarantee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-008-034.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate to which Mr Holomčík is currently on the table. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-008-034.u6	Thank you again for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no comments on the amendment to the Law on the circulation of seed and seed. I understand it's basically a technique based on some kind of application practice. I don't want to argue with any of this here, but I would like to take advantage of the fact that we will once again be open to both this law and the law on the protection of rights to plant varieties, and to discuss how we can support farmers in the use of intermediate crops. Modern policy, as we perceive it and try to do, should be based on at least one fundamental principle, or on a number of principles, but one of them should be that if the state wants something from citizens, it is a sacred duty for us politicians to simplify it as much as possible. In the previous debate, we talked about drought, the state of our landscape, there were also things that related to water vapor or the amount of organic matter in the soil. It is one of those measures, which is often recommended by experts and, of course, in some way done in practice, that is the use of intermediate crops. It has a wide range of positive impacts on organics, but especially on the fact that we have shorter part of the year exposed soil after the harvest of the main crop, which reduces further vapours and improves other quality. I certainly don't consider intermediates to be something that saves us, but it's an important piece of the mosaic at the end of which there should be a healthy landscape. That is why I will want to open up a debate about allowing farmers to produce farmers' seeds in precisely those types of crops that are used as intermediate crops, and some of them, such as mustard and many others, are simply forbidden, those farmers cannot. Ideally, it is precisely as a result of the fact that the amendment of the Act on the Protection of Plant Rights is also part of this amendment, that these crops should be used as intermediate crops, respectively. their seeds, have been exempted from fees. Pirates generally don't like this type of charge, but I understand it, and I don't want to question it in a general way. I understand that it's money that then goes into further development and development in seed and breeding, so I certainly don't want to tear down this system. But we should tell each other what the priority is for us. I'm seeing her right now in those measures that have the potential to improve the landscape. Of course, each coin has two sides, and it is clear to me that if this discussion is to do something, it should not be conducted only with farmers, but also with seeders and breeders. Coincidentally, next week, we have a meeting with representatives of seed and breeding organizations, where I will definitely want to open it, because if there is anything we can be proud of within, say, the world context, they are our breeders and their results in how they move breeding on. So it's definitely not our goal to limit or damage anything. And if we're going to talk about making this change, this ease towards farmers, then we should definitely compensate for the potential blackout from the seeds farmers' income in some way, which I think is quite easily possible within the framework of the laws under discussion. We simply want to say that measures are priority for us, which will improve the state of our landscape, but at the same time we do not want to harm Czech seeders and breeders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-008-034.u7	Thank you, too. That was the last speaker in the debate at the moment. If no one else is reporting for the debate, I - I am sorry, here is Mr Kott's technical remark. Please. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-008-034.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I agree with my colleague Holomčík to a certain extent. All of us, of course, are concerned that the agricultural land or the orchard itself should be as small as possible for a year without covering. I can't agree with that. But there's a second issue, there's a protection of the rights of the owners of the varieties. And, of course, we're just breaking in somewhere else. Farmer's seed is a matter that has been discussed many times here, but of course it has some limits, and those limits have been lobbied at the level of the European Commission. So, of course, the debate is possible, but I would not like us to become an island again within Europe, where something will be allowed on the grounds that we do not comply with any European regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-008-034.u9	Thank you. Member Holomčík will respond with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-008-034.u10	Thank you for the floor. In response to Mr Kott, by your means, Mr President. I think we agree. It is clear to me that these are matters of legislation that not only address our issues at national level, but it is also a matter of European legislation. On the other hand, our government and our representatives in the European Parliament and our government through the Council of Ministers have the opportunity to negotiate exceptions in some way. If we come across any legislative constraints, it has the possibility to influence legislation. And I, I said it in the previous debate, and I consider the state of our landscape to be an absolute priority. At the same time, and I said that too, I know we can't, if we want the quality of seed and breeding to be on some level, then we can't step on the companies and people who do it. That's why I was talking about some compensatory measures that we should discuss with them, so that the possible blackout, which I don't have yet of course fully calculated, wouldn't be dramatic for them. So we're in agreement, and I'm really looking forward to the committee debate. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-008-034.u11	Thank you. And at this point, I do not really have any more factual remarks or other applications for the debate, so if no one else is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in the final words from the Minister, from the rapporteur. It's not like that. In that case, I will call my colleagues to the hall and we will now consider the proposals for the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the agricultural committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone have a proposal for another committee? If that is not the case, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the commandment to the agricultural committee. Who opposes the commandment of the agricultural committee as a guarantee? Thank you. In the 148 vote, 140 Members and Members were enrolled, for 121, against no one, so I note that we have ordered the proposal to the agricultural committee as a guarantee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? If this is not the case, there has been a proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions by 30 days, i.e. 30 days. If no one objects, I am opening the vote on this proposal. I'm asking who's in favour of shortening the time limit. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 149. 140 Members and Members have been registered. For 99 against 1. This proposal has also been adopted. I note that we have reduced the deadline for committee discussions to 30 days. This concludes the discussion of this point. Thank you, rapporteur. The next item is paragraph 35, but we cannot discuss it because the Minister is excused, so he moves to the end of the block of first reading, as is historically customary. So does point 36 moving to the end of the first reading block. We're going to be dealing with point 39, which I'm opening. It's...
