ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u1	16. Government draft constitutional law on electoral districts for elections to the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic /German press 528/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, will be mentioned. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, let me briefly mention the last of the three drafts of electoral law, which together serve to implement some changes in the area of electoral law. Press 528 is a draft constitutional law on electoral districts for elections to the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. The proposal is a response in particular to Senate resolution 377 of 4 April 2018 by which the Senate asked the Government to prepare an amendment to the electoral law to ensure greater stability of the electoral districts for the election to the Senate. The proposal abandons existing practice, which meant a change in the definition of senate districts in principle every two years due to changes in the population of electoral districts. The solution contained in the proposal is the introduction of permanent electoral circuits for Senate elections, including their territorial definition by means of a list of municipalities whose territories will belong to individual electoral districts. It also lays down rules on how, for the purposes of defining the electoral districts, to take account of any merger, connection or, on the contrary, the separation of municipalities or changes in their names. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u3	I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Jan Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As was said by the representative of the petitioner, the government, so the content was presented and I will just hopefully add that this press arrived in the House last June and is recommended by the constitutional-legal committee as a guarantee to this press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u5	I am opening a general debate. I have one priority right here and one written application, and then Mr. Dominik Feri. First, with priority rights, the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal, then Mr František Navrkal and then Mr Dominik Feri came forward in writing. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u6	Hello. I've already been with these arguments about why I don't consider the proposed solution to be a good one before, but it's been a while. After all, it was last year, so I'd freshen it up. I, under this law, which is actually the new constitutional definition of senate districts, cannot agree with how it is done. I understand that something needs to be done, because the current constant changes in Senate circuits every two years are really not good. And how it moves more or less randomly, as some voters vote every two years, some vote once every ten years, this does not really correspond to the principle of equality. But I also cannot agree that the principle of equality could be consistent with the fact that we permanently fix the current form of senate circuits as they have just historically gradually emerged and arrived at us, some are through three regions or cover entire administrative circuits and so on. The current form of senate districts, which is fixed by this bill, does not even preserve the equality of vote among citizens across, because some circuits will simply vary by more than 30% in terms of population, and the situation will deteriorate because citizens are simply moving. And so does the equality that we have from the point of view of it - but it doesn't keep us citizens from having any relationship with the senate district, because I think those circuits are often designed in a very incomprehensible way. If they were designed the way it was designed at the outset, that means that every senate district will be in one region and ideally limited by the boundaries of municipalities with extended scope, I would have some understanding of that. But that's not how it feels. And then I think that, after all, the movement of citizens is such that they are gradually moving and moving the inhabitants, and in time, the population in one territory and another territory will be so different that we will not be able to talk about equality of vote. But there was originally a suggestion that we would recount it once every 12 years, when it would actually be achieved that once in 12 years each citizen would choose just twice, and then we would recalculate the circuits if there was a need to achieve some shift after some larger cells and more stability. So these are the reasons why I think this solution is inappropriate. [[14.40 hours]] And then, of course, I have an overall problem with the fact that we are dealing with these senate districts with a constitutional law, where we will have a complete list of all the municipalities in the Czech Republic, except those that will arise and disappear. They will not appear there, they will only somehow perceive that they are moving, but you will not, in fact, be able to find in the constitutional law, in which village you are, if your community is created or disappeared, or, God forbid, it has moved. That seems to me to be an inappropriate way to construct constitutional laws. So these are the reasons for which I would suggest that we do this differently and reject this print, or return it to a recast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u7	So now I was going to ask, are you giving, Mr Vice-President, a procedural motion to rework or reject? [[Yes.]] So you want both of us to vote? So the first about the return and then the rejection? [[Yes.]] Okay. So now I'm going to read one apology. Mr Pavel Pustějovskýějovský apologizes from 14.30 to 15.30 for work reasons. So now, with a written application, Mr František Navrkal asked for a speech and Mr Dominik Feri will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u8	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, dear colleagues and esteemed colleagues. I would, therefore, only for the 14th time in my parliamentary mandate, like my colleague Pikal, have asked you to pay more attention when discussing the press relating to the definition of senate districts. As a matter of fact, my colleague Pikal has already summed up the main problems here. And I'd still like to, I've studied the explanatory reports for the press. In fact, I was most interested in the explanatory memorandum of 527 in which the decision of the Constitutional Court of I/ÚS/360/98 of 8 was cited. 12. 1998, with the explanatory report in favour of these proposals citing the decision that the principle of equality is not of an absolute nature, meaning equality of electoral law, etc. etc., but it no longer quotes what was not appropriate for the store, because in the following paragraph, the Constitutional Court deals with what deviations in the population in individual constituencys are still acceptable and what they are not. And so it mentions because it was still in force at the time, or there was a need in the law to change the definition of those circuits at a deviation of more than 15 per cent from the average that was abolished, so in this context the Constitutional Court says - I quote: "For example, in the population of senators, there is a deviation of up to 15 per cent. However, both theory and practice recognize that a reasonable and justified deviation may be up to 30 per cent." It could be concluded that if the derogation exceeds 30 per cent, which I think is absolutely real at the moment when the Senate districts are established by constitutional law, so their change will require a constitutional majority in both chambers of Parliament, so I think that, for example, within a period of ten, twenty years, and I think that if we are talking about changes in constitutional order, then we should think really long ahead, so here is the risk that the deviation of 30 per cent will be exceeded, and I think that, in the long term, this proposal is crashing the equality of voting law, it is crashing it in a completely inappropriate way, or even according to the Constitutional Court's decision. And I think that we should even be looking for a consensus on whether we should make a change to the Constitution that refers to the potential constitutional law. I would therefore propose that the debate be interrupted until the House press 527 is discussed, i.e. the amendment to the Constitution. So I would also like to point out on the other hand, like my colleague Pikal, I understand that it is certainly beneficial for us to have some stability on the other side of these senate districts, but here we are just balancing three things. We're balancing the equality of voting rights here, and we're balancing stability here, and we just can't have everything, we can't have everything at the same time. But I think that since the state of recalculation every two years, we are moving into a state that it will actually recalculate or change until the two chambers of Parliament agree on it. And that seems to me like we're going from one extreme to the other. It would be enough, as my colleague Pikal suggested here, to make the conversion less frequent, it would be necessary once every 12 years, and therefore, from the point of view of the Constitutional Court's decision, it would not be possible to exceed probably not even 15%, let alone the 30% deviation. And I think it might be to everyone's satisfaction. I think that this is quite - I am not going to speculate here about all the possible reasons for which I suspect that this proposal has come into being here at all, but one of the things that seems to me that it is possible to prevent or restrict the possibility of reviewing the Constitutional Court, that, after all, if we have two parts of the constitutional order that will be in conflict here, the Constitution simply says that the right to vote is to be equal to the Senate elections, on the other hand, we are going to have a constitutional law of such rigid districts here, and then I don't know, the court is going to have to somehow rebalance it or I don't know. But just as my colleague Pikal has mentioned here, it is completely unconventional to have it in the constitutional law. So, once again, please consider interrupting this press until the amendment of the Constitution is discussed and we have some broad consensus on how to address this whole Senate circuit problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u9	So, Mr. Ambassador, you said, please consider, so I understand that this is your procedural proposal, and we're going to vote on it now. [[- Yes, sir.]] All right. So that we don't consider it for you. So that's a procedural proposal. I will engage because we will vote immediately. And I'm going to repeat what we're going to vote on. Mr. Congressman Navrkal... Yes, check out request, I'll check you out. And please sign up with your voting cards. The proposal is that we interrupt the debate on this press until press 527 is discussed. I'm gonna reengage. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 47, registered by 149 Members, for 40, against 12. The motion was denied. We will therefore continue the general debate. And before Mr. Dominik Feri gets to the microphone, I'll read one apology. Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes between 14:30 and 19:00 for work reasons. So Mr. Dominik Feri will now appear. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. So far, the last one entered into the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u10	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear members of the government present, and, Minister, my question will be addressed to the Minister, so I don't know whether to wait for him to call or not to hear it. But for starters. It's been so wild with electoral laws lately. We passed one law today, we have another one in the first reading, another one in the interreort and another one, some dramatic big adjustment, is being prepared. And I believe that you will forgive me if I am not specifically dedicated to the senate districts here in this contribution, but I fully identify myself with my pirate colleagues that this is a material that should be actually adapted by the self-constitutional, by simple law, but I would like to address one thing that the minister fired into the air about four or five days ago and which concerns this chamber, which concerns us, concerns those of us who need to run or our future successors, namely dramatic changes in the electoral system in the election to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of the Czech Republic. I really can't ask that question if the Minister doesn't listen to me, so I don't know how to do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u11	All I can do is call a break for one minute. Well, the minister has stopped, okay, I don't have to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u12	Thank you. I don't want to interfere with your life at all, but I think it's very important. Because since then the House has not been able to discuss it, the interpelations are not, as you know, often visited, and I would like to know your position and I think our colleagues are, too. You mentioned four days ago that you were interested in making one big candidate for the whole Czech Republic, abolishing the existing system of electoral regions, as set up by the self-government regions, and I wonder how real it is, if it is just some sort of internal action that has accidentally become public, or if it is a real political program that you are going to promote at the coalition board, on the government, and we are going to be waiting for a proposal. Because it's really something that's much more important in terms of setting up a political system than whether the circuits will be modified here in the annex, here in the constitutional law, here in the law normal, but it's something that really affects all of us. The electoral laws, in my opinion, are supposed to be characterised especially by their stability, by the fact that the rules don't change so quickly. And the idea that we would just say out of the blue that there wouldn't be 14 electoral regions, for example. after the Slovak example, one big candidate with one leader and two hundred candidates will be, so that is something that is quite essential. And dealing with it for a year and a half or a year and a quarter before the election, I don't know if it gives us enough comfort to think about it with dignity and focus on it. So I am interested in what stage this is and whether we are to expect this as some comprehensive amendment to the bill on the management of elections, or as some other independent press, a separate draft that would go to the Chamber of Deputies and, if necessary, whether you have discussed this with your colleagues from social democracy or with your colleagues from the government of the ANO movement, because it is very surprising for everyone. And I'm not really assessing it on a material basis, but rather on the side of the process. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u13	With priority rights Mr. Interior Minister Hamáček. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u14	Thank you. First of all, I think that the debate is to be considered, and this is a debate on the Senate elections, not the Chamber of Deputies. But I will answer the honourable Member's question. In an interview with Lidové noviny, I expressed my personal opinion, when I think it would be fair and in terms of some reform of the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, not the Senate, to consider the introduction of one territory for the whole of the Czech Republic, not the current scenario where we have 14 regions. That was my private, personal opinion. And the law that concerns changing the election system to the Chamber of Deputies, now it's actually in the finals at the Ministry of the Interior, goes to the government and then to the House. That means the debate you're calling for is waiting for us, I'm ready for it. However, I do not think that we are to debate the elections to the House at a point that concerns the elections to the Senate. If you ask me my personal opinion, yes, I think it would be easier and cleaner if the Czech Republic were one constituency, but please, it is my opinion as Jan Hamáček, it is not the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior and it is a matter that we are very intensively discussing in social democracy. I'm sure the debate about how the electoral system is supposed to look will come, I'm ready for it, and I know that what comes from the government is probably not what will leave the Chamber of Deputies in relation to the elections to the Chamber of Deputies. But please, let's have the debate the moment the law is here. He's not here yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u15	So now two factual points, so Mr Dominik Feri will be the first to speak and Mr Stanislav Juránek will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u16	Thank you for the floor. Minister, don't be mad at me, but I didn't really understand what was coming out of it, because you said it was your personal opinion as Minister, then you said that the law wasn't here yet, and when it was here - you said that it was your personal opinion, but then you said that you gave the analysis to Deputy Minister Mlsna, that means some kind of minister. And I don't know what to expect from it. And the fact that we're dealing with this at the Senate point, well, when we're going to deal with it some other time, when the debate was concluded on the previous point, there aren't honored colleagues who I think should hear it, and I would demand some reasonable explanation whether you're going to promote it as a real political program for you, your ministry, social democracy, or not, because it's fundamentally changing the rules of the political game. And if we're to remain silent until it comes here, you can't ask us to do that justly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u17	Mr Stanislav Juránek will now be prepared for Mr Jiří Strýček, with a factual remark. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say clearly to the point here, first of all, that we have the worst compatibility, that means absolutely incompatible, all choices when we put them together, and we've made a mess of it by having a direct election of the president, but I don't want to discuss that. But what I'm saying is, if we're going to change any of these systems, we should also deal with their connections to get as close to each other as possible. That means there's no point in working here with what ties will be to other elections before they're to the Senate. That's the first thing. Second thing. But what I'm saying is that I completely disagree with my previous speakers who spoke here as pirates. I think they're out of line. I ask them to see for themselves how there were changes in the individual constituency and what percentage it was. I don't want to say my calculations right now, or what I've learned in the last 15 minutes, and that's why I'm going to check it out. But I want to say that we can achieve stability within these senate districts in a constitutional way, because otherwise there will be no stability. And not every two years, but in fact every year, there may be a proposal from any minister, any interior minister, who makes a proposal to change these electoral districts. And because there have been a large number of cases that some people have not been able to vote because they may not have been hit three consecutive times, I think that equality in terms of our Constitution and reasonable similar conditions will be achieved more by implementing a constitutional law than if it is an issue that concerns only individualities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u19	So here we are - Minister, have you been pointing at me? [[No.]] It's okay. We have here - I'll recapitulate - factual remarks, because there's a little bit more going on here. So Jiří Strýček, Mr. Marek Výborný, Mr.František Navrkal and Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal will be ready. So, MP Jiří Strýček, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u20	Good afternoon. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am only to Mr Ferim through you. Today we didn't approve of the electoral law, the amendment of the electoral law. What we approved today was a double vote fine in the European elections, so there was no change in the electoral laws at all. As far as I remember, basically nowadays, or if I'm in my head, the most changes in electoral laws are currently coming from the TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL workshop. So I would really like to wait for the Ministry of the Interior to pass the comprehensive election management bill that we are talking about -- I guess there's already been an interlude procedure -- and then we can talk about it as a whole. And I would really like to ask you, Mr Vice-President, to return the debate to where it belongs, that is, the Senate election law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u21	Yes, I will comply with your request and call on Members to speak to the point. The President of the KDU-ČSL Marek will now perform Výborný and František Navrkal will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'll first see your colleague Strýček through you. That's a bit of a mistake, because the election management law will not and cannot address the question of the electoral system to the House or anywhere else. So it wouldn't belong there either. On the one hand, I understand my colleague Ferim has asked this question, which is based on some experience of the ministers' participation in the interpelations, etc., but on the other hand, and here I might be able to help the Vice Prime Minister, one of the House's press is here, and it is already our proposal for an amendment to the electoral law, which concerns the coalition's loader and which also concerns the conversion of votes into mandates. We have a lot to really discuss. We really don't have to - and it doesn't make sense to wait for the election management bill, it's about something else. Of course, this discussion will also be important there, but it will concern technical matters in principle, not those such as electoral systems. And I'm ready in the next few weeks, or maybe really within one month, and in agreement with the new president of the KDU-ČSL, to call a round table here in the House with the participation of all the MPs or representatives of all the MPs, and let's really talk about these things. I have to say, what I read in the Lidové noviny may have surprised me a little. On the other hand, I take it as a relevant view of the political party, the political party chair, the vice-premiere. I also wonder to what extent this is already being discussed in some way at the level of coalition council etc. However, let us also use this as one of the possible solutions for discussion. Let's put this on the table and talk about it as representatives of all the political parties here in the House. I think that's what it takes. This discussion isn't supposed to wait for the election management bill. And I'm ready to invite all the deputies. Let's say what's real, what's not real, where we can go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u23	Thank you. Mr. František Navrkal will now appear and the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u24	Thank you for the floor. I would only react briefly to Mr. Juránek. So I don't agree that the only way to introduce stability here or increase stability is to list or precisely define those senate districts firmly by constitutional law. After all, and I am open to the discussion, although I do not think that this is necessarily the best solution, but it would certainly be a step in a better direction and it would go so that the constitutional law would only define the limits, that it would be necessary, just as the law did not establish that it would put the limits there, which means that it would put some maximum acceptable deviation of the population from the average, and then maybe once every 12 years, less often than it was before the amendment of the law, the electoral circuits would have counted. Explain to me what the problem is. I think it's much better this way than what they're promoting those government proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u25	The Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal will now appear and prepare Mrs Jana Mračková. Last applications so far. Please, Vice-President, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u26	Thank you. I will not comment on other electoral laws, even if the electoral law on municipalities would also need some discussion, but that is simply not the subject of this discussion. I just want to know why I'm proposing these two things and why I think we should reject it so I can respond to the debate. It is simply not possible to modify something in the constitutional material simply to avoid constitutional review. And it's impossible to pretend that we're going to introduce an equality of voting rights, a good one or a better one. Yes, I agree that there is this current problem where electoral circuits change often, and often change in a way that creates some sort of pendant of those electoral circuits outside, when, in fact, those voters have some natural center of interest in their territory somewhere else, in another region, in another community with extended scope, in another district, but it simply belongs to somewhere where they have no connection to it, as it is proposed. And that, of course, is not good. So let's put it this way that these circuits are defined in some sense and we're going to fix them for 12 years, twenty-four years, but for some time simply, and then once in a while, let's see if some citizens have twice the voting power of other citizens, which is just in our republic, which is not federal, but we have equality here, so I think we should not go in the direction that some senators are going to represent more citizens than others in the order. That's not a good way to go. And that's my reaction. And why do I suggest we rework it? Well, that's why I think that even if we were to anchor it constitutionally, those circuits can be defined in a better way. And I don't want to operate here on my knees with a proposal from the MP when I saw the proposal that he was prepared for the ministry in the review proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u27	There. Mrs Jana Mračková will now appear, so far the last application. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to take the liberty of responding to the speakers, particularly Mr Pikal and Mr Navrkal, through Mr President, and above all to the remark that there is a suspicion of what this proposal came from. So when I look at Mr. Bachelor Navrkal, he has 97 percent attendance in the House. So I'm assuming that this was here in 2018, when the Minister presented an amendment to the Senate Circuit Act, you probably have been a Member for a long time when it happened that the senators had returned this proposal to us and canceled the regular update, which actually resolved that if the Senate Circuit had increased by 15% or decreased by 15%, it had just to change the Senate constituency, and it was imposed on us that it had to prepare a practically new proposal that the Ministry of Interior had to prepare it. This is why a working group was established where all political actors were represented. There were a number of variations. And based on that, and based on the agreement of virtually all the representatives of those political parties, this proposal has been made, which has now been submitted by the Ministry of the Interior. So I'd just like to set the record straight. But it really was a big problem, because, for example, two years ago, when the senators said that they were going to release the 15 percent increase and the reduction, so there was also a risk that someone, because there were just two electoral districts where it was practically exceeded, or there was a population of 15 percent, and then, of course, someone could appeal against the election result, and that is why I think it's a good thing that this proposal is here and that there was a consensus on it practically from the point of view of the political parties and those representatives. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u29	Now two factual points. Mr František Navrkal and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u30	Well, thank you for your word. First of all, I'd just like to fix it. I was not a Member of Parliament of the Czech Republic in 2018. I didn't become a Member until June last year, so I wasn't here. I didn't even participate in the task force where there was definitely no general consensus, because our representatives, or our representatives, I don't know, certainly didn't agree with the proposal here. You're right that there was a problem in the past with the changes necessary when they were necessary when the limit of 15% of the deviation was still there. But you can't argue that there was a problem with a system that leads to equality of vote being maintained here, which I think is some kind of basis for some democracy that we have equal voices here. And it can't be argued that there was a problem in the past to do it here. That's got to be some kind of Parliament failure here, or we just had to agree on something else, and not go from the extreme of the frequent conversions to the opposite extreme. Just to fix it constitutionally forever, to say the public, that seems meaningless to me, just like denying the equality of votes in the long run. So there was definitely no consensus here, and I think... I'd be repeating myself and the previous speakers here if I were to make more factual arguments. I just consider it a very bad proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u31	There. Mr. Ferjenčík has withdrawn, so we have no further application yet. So I'll look around the O.R. Mr. Benda, are you interested in speaking? General or factual? In general. Well, you're the only one. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u32	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I understand the reasons why the appellants have to propose this law. Yet I find him extremely unhappy. I even understand that maybe this is what the Senate is trying to do, but the constitutional law, in which we have listed almost all the municipalities, doesn't really seem like a reasonable solution to me. What happens to me when one of these communities is gone? For example, do they merge, for example, split? [[15.10 hours]] When we founded the regions, it was at least the territory of the counties. This would make sense to me if we were talking about the ordinary law. But in that constitutional law, and I have already said that in the previous debate, and I would ask very much - and please take this, Mr President, as a procedural proposal - that this material should be ordered, in addition to the constitutional-legal committee, by the Permanent Commission for the Constitution of Mrs Valachová, because I think that we must again have a round of negotiations with the Senate, so that it is at least clear how these things will be approved in succession, because, I said so in the previous speech, the amendment of the Constitution, as proposed, is the easiest way to abolish the Senate as a whole, to approve the amendment of the Constitution, which will say, the electoral districts are determined by the constitutional law, and then not to approve the constitutional law to which the electoral districts are designated. I don't really understand why it's broken down that we have, like, one law that changes the Constitution, and the other one that looks like an implementation, but it's a constitutional character. So we just have to say that the electoral circuits are stable, we can say this to the Constitution, but why we do the electoral circuits by constitutional law doesn't really give me a lot of logic, even if I'm based on the fact that we shouldn't change them often, that we can say that the deviation can be greater, that it can be recounted once every six years, that's probably the most reasonable thing I would consider, just if the three elections happen again, so there's a recalculation all over the Republic, and the Ministry of the Interior is obliged to submit a proposal that will approach, and it'll be where the deviations are, in order to really avoid the conditions described by both the minister and some previous speakers that somewhere they don't vote almost at all and somewhere they vote too often. But I think these solutions are easier than taking it and rewriting the electoral law into constitutional law. In fact, I consider this rather a slight disrespect for constitutional laws, and from this point of view, I object to that to some extent, although I will probably be revoted, but I just want it to be known that I do not imagine the Constitution to be written in this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u33	Mr. Ambassador, so you are proposing that this proposal be directed to the constitutionally-legal committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u34	And a permanent board for the Constitution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u35	There. He's already proposed as a guarantee committee, so we're going to vote on it. And the Constitutional Commission, I've got it marked. Now Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u36	Thank you. I, with great respect for Mr Benda, want to answer his question, but I feel that he has not read it, because he has asked here what happens when the community joins, what happens when the municipalities merge. He has one page except the list of municipalities, and Article 2 says exactly what happens when he merges or joins: If the municipalities merge, the territory of the municipality resulting from the merger belongs to the constituency in which the territory of the largest of the merged municipalities belonged. It's in the law. If the municipality is connected to another municipality, the territory of the connected municipality belongs to the constituency to which the territory of the municipality to which it is connected belongs. If a new municipality is created by separation of a part of the municipality, the territory of the newly created municipality belongs to the constituency to which the territory of the municipality from which it is separated belongs. On one page all answers to your questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u37	Now I'll read the apology. Mr Jaroslav Bžoch apologizes today between 15 and 19 o'clock from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I will look around the Chamber to see if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. I don't see anyone, so I'm ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? The rapporteur? You're not interested in final words. We will vote on the proposals. We have two suggestions from the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal. In the meantime, I'll be on my way. We will be the first to vote on the proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion. If this proposal fails, then we will vote on the motion to reject the proposal. I'm gonna reengage. I'm gonna sign you all off on a request from the diaper. Please log in with your voting cards again. I'll repeat what we're going to vote on. We will now vote on the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 48, 159 Members signed in for 55, versus 65. The motion was denied. Next vote. We shall vote on the motion to reject the proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 49, 161 Members registered, for 27, against 80. The motion was denied. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the proposed proposal to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee. I ask - does anyone suggest a commandment to another committee as a guarantee? No. We will take the vote. Initiating vote. Who, for the commandment, is a motion to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee? Who's against it? Voting number 50, registered 162, for 156, versus 1. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? Yes, Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u38	Thank you. It is just because I would like to suggest that if we eventually introduce those permanent Members, I would like them to have an ideal link to one region and one or some limited number of municipalities with extended scope, so I would like to propose that we order the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development to discuss those borders there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u39	I'm asking if there's still a suggestion on the commandment. [[No.]] So we're going to vote twice now. Firstly, I have here a motion for a commandment from the Public Administration Committee and then a proposal from Mr Benda, who has proposed to the Constitutional Commission. So now we will vote on the commandment of the Public Administration Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 51, 162 Members signed in for 55, versus 12. The motion was denied. We will now vote on the commandment of the Constitutional Commission. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 52, 163 Members signed in, for 81, versus 8. The motion was denied. Do I understand that a request has been made for a vote check? [[Yes. - There's a vote check going on.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u40	Thank you for the floor. I question this vote. I voted in favour and, unfortunately, I'm late for high school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-22-ps2017-040-02-008-016.u41	Mr Lukáš Kolářík says he is questioning the vote. So we'll vote on your objection. Who agrees with Mr Lukáš Kolářík's objection? I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 53, 163 Members registered, for 143, against none. Objection received. I'll sign you off on request from the diaper. Log in again with your voting cards. And I'm going to repeat what we're going to vote on. We will vote on Mr Benda's proposal for the bill to be discussed also in the Constitutional Commission. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 54 entered 157 Members, for 86, against 10. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that this proposal has also been ordered for discussion by the Constitutional Commission. This has exhausted all the proposals relating to this draft constitutional law. Let's start another point. This is about
