ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u1	23. Government bill amending Act No. 254/2001 Coll., on waters and on the amendment of certain laws (water law), as amended, and other related laws /house print 556/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal submitted will gradually be introduced by Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman and Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please take the floor. The Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman will be the first to speak. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u2	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members, allow me to mention the Government's amendment to Act No. 254/2001 Coll., on Waters, and other related laws. The submitted material, which was drawn up jointly by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment, is based on the concept of protection against droughts for the territory of the Czech Republic approved by Government Resolution 24 July 2017 No. 528. [[14.50 hours]] In connection with the drought period, the proposed amendment introduces new concepts of drought and water shortages, the obligation to process plans for the management of droughts and water shortages for the territory of the Czech Republic and for the territory of the region is introduced. The content of these plans and the manner in which they are discussed shall be determined. Priority shall be given to the method of use of water for the purpose of drawing up a dry plan and to the authorities for the management, composition and competence of droughts and water shortages. The announcement and termination of the water shortage is also regulated and sanctions are also introduced for infringements of the newly proposed obligations. Another significant change in the draft water law is, for example, the introduction of the obligation to measure the amount of surface water and groundwater collected at least 1 000 cc per year or 100 cc per month and to transmit the results of the measurement to the water catchment area manager. The draft law also contains an amendment to the Act on the application of the State Physical Reserves Administration, which regulates the conditions for the provision and use of state material reserves for the resolution of emergencies in connection with the announcement of a water shortage situation. In particular, water tanks, technical equipment for the drawing of water, as well as equipment needed for the supply or treatment of water may be provided. The draft law also includes an amendment to the Crisis Management Act, which relates to the need for a clear division of competences of the authorities for drought and crisis authorities in cases where a state of emergency occurs. The proposal also contains an amendment to the Waterwater and Sewer Act, which aims in particular to enable the water operator to respond by limiting the supply of drinking water to declare a water shortage in accordance with the Water Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u3	I will now request a speech from the Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabec. Please, Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u4	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, fellow Members, I will just follow up on the Minister of Agriculture. I dare say that the amendment to the Water Act is largely revolutionary. The revolutionary fact that, as Minister Toman said, he introduces a so-called dry head, that is, he responds to a new situation that we must reflect, and of course we reflect it not only in the practical measures, because we implement thousands of measures, concrete projects in the fight against drought, but we need to adapt the rule of law. And just as the issue of flood and reaction to floods is being dealt with very well in the water law today, the issue of preparation for drought must also be clearly addressed, because drought, although perhaps creepier at first sight in its consequences, can, of course, cause more damage than the flood. And we can also see this clearly in the context of the fact that so far everything suggests that we will face another dry year, so it is all the more important that we get new provisions and new competences into our legal system. In addition to what Minister Toman said, I would just point out that there we are increasing the competence of water authorities as a key body for us, which should then decide in certain crisis situations, for example by extending the possibility of a water authority from the power of the official to regulate the applicable water management permits. Here I would like to say that this is an option, not an obligation, and we are actually returning to the law the provisions that were there by 2010 when the Water Authority, taking into account all the conditions of any particular situation, can change the permits and existing permits for water management. This is important because we are in a situation where, in some regions, we add up all the permits granted to water or water collection and compare it with the possibilities, so we would find that the permits go beyond the current possibilities. In cooperation with the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Research Institute of Water Management, the Czech Hydrometeorological Institute, the Czech University of Agriculture and other subjects, we prepare and finalize a very interesting tool, an application that will then be available for the water authorities, so that they have very detailed information from individual regions and can respond better to the imminent drought either at local or regional level. Last comment. There is also talk of circuit plans for drought. At the end of 2018, we completed the methodological instruction for the preparation of circuit plans for drought. And the functionality of the methodological instruction was verified by the fact that a pilot project for the Králové Hradec Region has been developed and has already been discussed with representatives and will be provided to other regional authorities who will be interested in such a plan. So thank you for your attention and I am certainly looking forward to an interesting debate with Minister Toman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u5	I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Karel Tureček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to confirm what was said here from the mouth of the two ministers. I confirm that when the Waters Act was established in 2001, there was already relatively deep experience of the fight against floods, especially in view of the catastrophic floods of 1997. I would say that the struggle with the floods was quite incorporated into the water law, had a separate head, while another negative, harmful effect of the waters, and this is a drought, was incorporated in two paragraphs. Based on experience from 2015 and 2018, when the Czech Republic was hit by a more severe drought, not a catastrophic drought, I would like to stress this, an initiative was created at the Ministry of Agriculture, which found general political support across the political spectrum, and the idea that it would be developed, I would say, by the authorities that will function in the event of catastrophic drought, into a separate head. This was the main purpose of this amendment, which arose at the ministries of agriculture and the environment during 2017, 2018 and was sent to Parliament at the end of 2019. So we're going to have a pretty deep discussion. Of course, as the Water Act goes, there are always different solutions. I think that both the Ministry of Agriculture, the environment, but also the Guarantee Agricultural Committee is prepared for these discussions and, of course, the aim will be to improve this standard by individual amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u7	I am opening a general debate in which I have four Members. Mr Jaroslav Martinů will be the first to speak and Mr Jan Zahradník will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u8	Good day, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Let me also give a short speech to my opinion the biggest problem our country, the Czech Republic, has, and this is the water loss in our country. I think you've all noticed. I'm not going to say anything new when I say here that since 2014, this is actually the seventh year when 100 percent of the water hasn't rained in our country. The year 2015 and 2018 were completely tragic when only 70 percent of the water rained. And just for your visual image: When it normally rains 100 percent, which is 680 mm of water, the average collision on the Czech Republic, it attacks 55 billion. Cabs of water. In 2015 and 2018, it only attacked 40 billion. When we look at the current situation, the flow of our rivers to the water catchment areas of Vltava, Moravia, Elbe and so on, we find that at this point in our streams only 20 to 40 percent of the average state of twenty years is flowing. That's alarming. For the fact that it's January and the landscape doesn't suck water, I think this situation is awful and it's evidence of real state. I think the flow of water in streams and streams suggests a state of groundwater. And I don't think I'm gonna say anything new, that you all know that our groundwater reserves are dropping dramatically, and according to the Blue Report, our groundwater availability has fallen by 50 percent over the past seven years. Let's see what's behind this. I'm not pointing a finger at anyone, I'm not blaming anyone, it's not a political speech, it's just a request to think about what we can do about it. Let's see what we've done in the last generation. We drained 1.5 million ha of originally wet bows. We destroyed 80 percent, tens of thousands of watercourses that originally meandered. We deepened them and made them outdoor drains. [[15.00 hours]] We have industrial agriculture. I repeat, industrial agriculture. And if we look at the state of the forests and compare it to 1750, according to the information available in 1750 the Czech countries had 1,100,000 hectares of forest, and of that there were only 11 percent of spruce. Today, according to official data, we have 2,670,000 hectares of forest, and that makes 52 percent of the spruce. So we have ten times as many spruce. According to all the research available, the 80-year-old spruce crop is considered to be vital to cool the air, which we all want, requires up to 600 to 700 mm of water per year. Dear and kind, 600 to 700 mm of water does not occur to us in 80 percent of Czech territory. He won't. And we spent 200 years planting spruce, hundreds of thousands of hectares, in the territory where the spruce wasn't supposed to be. The spruce is an extremely demanding plant for water, which will be confirmed by every woodsman who knows what it's about. So the question is, when we think about it, we've been pushing out water for a hundred years, regulation, melioration, we've got a lot of forests, especially spruce crops, we've got industrial agriculture, and I'm asking, I'm asking, I don't want to advise anyone. I'm an ordinary man, I don't dare -- today, when we look at industrial agriculture, we have 71% of the land plowed out of 4 million hectares of agricultural land today. This is, according to all available data, the most in Europe. Austria, Germany is about 50 percent. We have 71 percent of the soil plowed by a deep orb, and now, according to researchers, it is believed that the deep orb is drying the landscape in the fastest way. That's right. And I ask - can we afford today, when the drought is so extreme and year after year is bigger and bigger, is it right for our republic to grow 8 million tons of grain, and with us it eats only 4.5 million? To export almost 45 to 50 percent of the grain outside our republic and to plow a million hectares of land unnecessarily? I'm asking, I don't want to advise anyone, I repeat, I'm an ordinary person. I've been trying to find research to confirm how much water he picks up the lawn, how much water he picks up the arable land, how much water he picks up the forest. I found research that confirms that the difference between lawn and arable land is 150 mm; 150 mm of water, that means if we take that we have a million hectares of land plowed to waste, we find that we're losing 2 billion. Cubs of water with this useless whim. Professor Pokorný found that when it was a tropical day, he took a thermocamera and examined the temperature of the air above each surface of the earth, so he found that above the water surface there was a temperature of 26 degrees, above the living forest of 28 degrees, above the chopped lawn or over the power of the saved lawn already 40 degrees, above the cut field - and we cut off earlier and earlier, and for months, the arable field lies in the sun, which sends 1,000 watts per square meter - so above the cut field it is 50 degrees, the same as above the asphalt surfaces. And to my question, how much is it over the dry forest - and basically today we have almost all the woods dry - so it's up to 65 degrees. Mr. Docent Humility thinks so, and it seems very logical to me that with this dramatic change of surface, as we warmed up the Earth, the hot air streams are actually burning up quickly, tearing down the last remnants of steam and taking away the air flow from the Czech Republic and falling into another part of the world. That's how we actually lose water year after year. That's what I think is a fatal problem. And when we look - when I went to school, it's been a lot of years, about 50 years, so we were taught that the water that invades and thickens with us goes to three parts, a threesome: one part to the ground, the other part to the air, and the third part to flow away. Gentlemen and gentlemen, if we look at the last few years of the Blue Report, we find that we have dramatically raised the fumes by maybe 150 percent and that the fumes today reach 80 percent of the total rainfall. This is crazy! Really, that's crazy! And if we don't do something about it, the main problem is that the Czech Republic is drying up. Just to realize what a huge problem this is - when we look at the production of all water companies drinking water for household purposes, including losses, including industry, it's 500 miles. Cabs, folks and nice, including swimming pools. 500 miles. The cc's of water is only 1 percent of the water we have for the whole year, but 80 percent, the dramatic increase, we're actually losing the fumes. And today we're scared, we're right to fear that households have water. I read every day about a situation where many and many families who don't have a water system and live in solitude run out of wells, run out of wells, and people are desperate. The situation is just awful, and the question is, what can we do about it? Personally, I think this thing is heavy. And I'm not pointing a finger at anyone. We're all to blame for this, it's the fault of generations, but I think it's the Rainbow program, where we actually catch the last liters of water and water the English lawns - you see, Mr. Pokorný found 40 degrees above the English lawn - and the water doesn't reach the ponds, so I ask: do you think that's right? I don't know. All I'm going to say is that when I acted as Mayor of Polička in the Povodí Moravy, and there is the technical director Mr Tůma, who has been there for 40 years and is there body and soul of the water basin, he informed me that in 2018 only one sixth of the water, which was the average value, had flowed from the entire Moravy basin through the Moravia River to the Danube. Normally, it drained 1 billion. 200 miles. Cabs of water and in 2018 only 200 mil., one-sixth. Dear people, there's nothing running through us anymore, and there's nothing flowing in those rivers. It's not a question - I know we have to catch water, but this isn't enough. We just have to somehow cool the country down, somehow just - in my opinion, the most affordable step would be to ease the soil ploughing. I think that 71 percent of ploughed agricultural land is not for years to come, that it is out of proportion and that it is unsustainable and that we are simply facing major changes in agriculture. And I repeat - it's not a political speech, it's a begging speech. Let's do something about it if it's not too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u9	Now I'll read the apology. Mr Pavel Staněk apologises between 15 and 19 o'clock for family reasons. So, next in turn, Mr Jan Zahradník will appear and Mr Stanislav Grospič will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u10	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I listened to the opening speech of both the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for the Environment. I am pleased that the Minister mentioned both the effects of the water law in terms of crisis management, that he mentioned his flood head and now the head dry. I have personal experience in applying both functions of this law, whether it was 2002 when we used this law precisely for crisis management in times of catastrophic floods. I must say that at that time the legal means were sufficient that we could use all the elements of the state administration, starting with the Czech Hydrometeorological Institute through the river basins, in our country in southern Bohemia the Vltava basin, the fire rescue corps, the Czech Police, veterinary administration, sanitation and others, all worked within the crisis staff at the highest possible level, and so it worked well. It was also possible to use various emergency measures in terms of financing the necessary work, which had to be done very quickly, in order to prevent more damage or loss of life. That was 2002. The flood ended, the flood damage began to be repaired after the floods, and in 2003 I had the opportunity to re-create the crisis crew, but then it was because of the drought that came then and threatened that municipalities and their inhabitants, who or who were not connected to the central water supply, which in southern Bohemia is realized by the thick pipe from the water treatment plant in Plavo from the Roman dam, had their own resources, their own wells, remained dry. [[15.10 hours]] At the time, we took advantage of the possibilities of the law and tried to provide replacement supplies by mobilizing capacity in the area of transporting the water in the tanks. And we thought we were doing enough because after the dramatic flood experience, we thought it was an episode. We thought, it will pass, nature will become wise, it will rain, and the world will be normal again. It rained, and eventually we faced the floods in 2006, even if not so big. I therefore agree with what my colleague Martinů says that these things need to be considered. We are all talking about water retention in the landscape, measures for changes that have been made in nature at that time in the area of water management. While the period of communism was a period of melioration from this point of view, everything was meliorated back then. I think I've already remembered where the drains, the bricks of pink, fell apart the ones that weren't put into the ground. Of course, the meliorations have long and long since worked, but yet this activity as an activity from today's point of view is inconsequential. I agree that we return nature's original face to return and retain water in the landscape. But I have to say that this water in the landscape in the form of marshes, new swamps, twists, meanders of rivers, new ponds, ponds, tanks so much water for the current need, which we may need not for our drinking and hygiene consumption, that is a percentage of the water, but for the industrial needs, the needs of our energy sources, there is a need for a large amount of water. Therefore, I think that both ministries should look again at the river basin plans that proposed to implement the construction of tanks that could currently contain water, if it attacks and is available, and not let it flow downstream from our Republic, but keep it with us as long as possible. I know that this is problematic, the plan of the main water catchment area, which proposed roughly plus minus construction in 2005, or at least protection, protection of the territory - not construction at all, I said wrong - protection of the territory for about 200 tanks, the plan collapsed on the resistance of the mayors of the municipalities, who did not allow interference in their territorial intentions and plans, and, of course, on the conservation of nature, which everywhere found appropriate animals, which must be protected. That's why the tanks weren't even included in the plan. Today, I think, is planned 84 or 60, now I don't know... 64, Minister, thank you, not 84, but 64. [[The minister says so.]] This might want to reconsider, too, whether we should start building these things. I'm going back to the law that brought me to be specific. I have performed in the past period for various reasons, I have proposed different changes. Among other things, changes, and this may stick in your memory, which would allow us to make better use of our watercourses for recreational water tourism. I'd like to say something else today. I was particularly interested in the amendment point 9, which amends Section 12. The new wording of this section states, inter alia, that the Water Authority may, by virtue of its authority, amend or revoke the permit to dispose of water when the conditions for determining the minimum residual flow in accordance with Section 36 or the minimum groundwater level in accordance with Section 37 change significantly. This is justified by the fact that it is a measure to address possible impacts of drought. I understand. It's okay. After all, it's the dry novel we're dealing with right now. However, the provision does not in any way lay down criteria for changing the conditions, and in the field of water management it is often not possible to reverse the historical contexts that have been given as a reason for the application for the authorisation of water management. The new text of Section 12 confers on the water authorities the possibility of fundamentally stable conditions in the water sector in our territory. [[Edit]] If approved, it shall in particular affect operators of small hydro power plants. The RIA final report on the government's regulation, which will then determine the minimum residual flow rate, says that the derivation of small hydropower plants, which do not have a minimum residual flow rate in the current permit, can be expected to have an impact in the form of a 20 per cent reduction in production with a total loss of CZK 58 million. So that's what RIA says about the government order. Supposedly, it would be those other power plants besides the derivative ones - these are the ones that are connected to the side channel that comes out of the main stream and supplies the power plant with water, the Jezes, for example - they shouldn't touch it very much, so says the author, the RIA processor. I read that in 2016 there were 1 624 small hydro power plants with installed capacity of 384 megawatts in the Czech Republic and produced 1,000 gigawatt hours of energy in that year. For illustration purposes, our total energy production per year is about 88 terawatt hours, i.e. 88,000 gigawatt hours of electricity produced. The operators of those small hydro power plants rightly consider their waterworks to be an important part of the Czech emission-free energy system. The state must therefore give them a significant degree of certainty in order to anticipate the development of their business. On the contrary, the authority conferred on the water authorities establishes legal uncertainty for all entitled persons who have their right to water management. It therefore undermines the possibility of their legitimate expectations and, above all, it undermines their constitutionally guaranteed ownership of their business units. In addition, the proposed amendment to Section 12 is redundant in this respect that, in the case of temporary and crisis urgent conditions, the current water law in Section 109 (1) (a) is already applicable. 1 gives the water management authority the possibility to respond flexibly to temporary water management problems and, where necessary, to temporarily modify or withdraw already issued water management permits when required by the public interest. In addition, in our amended text § 87k, which gives the regional or central drought committee the power to issue decisions or measures of a general nature which may restrict, modify or prohibit the use of water without compensation. What I have now said in the second part of my speech towards the current wording of the proposed law - and in my view there is no reason to reject the law at first reading, I will not give such a proposal, the law is beneficial given the really imminent risk of drought - but that is why I am going to think about what amendments I will try to put forward and also present at second reading and then try to enforce them at third reading. I mentioned at the beginning of my performance after the reflection of the floods and the drought of the waterboat holiday cruise. I know it won't sound very popular, but I will try to come up with an amendment here, which would give this rather significant segment of our tourism industry some hope that they could also have some certainty in bringing our rivers together. Moreover, the RIA mentioned once mentioned this aspect of the water cruise as also an important part of our tourist resources. So at second reading, I'm going to try to make a proposal that both of my topics would take into account in some way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u11	Now I'll read the apology. Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch apologizes from 15 am to the end of the day due to urgent work issues. I will now request a speech from Mr Stanislav Grospič and Mr Radek Holomčík will be prepared. Before the MP arrives, I remind you again that there's still that cell phone. Someone's cell phone's been here since this morning. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, honourable members of the government, I think I will be much more brief. I would like to say here that I welcome for myself and for the KSČM club the submission of a government bill amending the law on waters, as amended by some other laws and later regulations and related laws. The problem of drought is extremely serious. A number of previous speakers here have already come across that question. And maybe the law comes in not five minutes twelve or twelve hours, but after twelve o'clock. And we need to deal with this issue. But what I think is a major problem, and it's been discussed here before, so that's the question of a really enormous farm fund study. I understand that unlike other Member States of the European Union, we still have farms that manage larger units of acreage. But I don't think that's relevant from the point of view of whether or not we're restricting the agricultural soil fund. I also understand that from 1918 until now, the agricultural soil fund has decreased by 1,600 million hectares. And I also understand that over the last 60 years it has been 800 thousand hectares, but the vast majority of the agricultural land fund has disappeared over the past 15 years. And I think this is an alarming signal for that period, which is not too long to think about why about the last 15 or 20 years, there has been such an enormous burden on the agricultural soil fund, even though there are various measures and municipalities have their territorial plans, there are troika communities that approve the set-aside of the agricultural soil fund into one hectare, and there are regional authorities that should deal with the agreement to set-aside from the agricultural soil fund over one hectare. Why are we not able and are not able to approach these authorities factually and rationally, and also to do a little bit to avoid the loss of the agricultural soil fund? The second, of course, is the question of the composition of the rotational and the things that belong to it. However, I would like to mention one thing here that although I think that this bill will create a great deal of controversy, it has been said here that perhaps it will come to an agreement and will be put into committee at first reading, because it is an extremely necessary standard, even though I realize that it is entering into ownership relations and that someone may feel justified by the fact that a third party will enter its property rights into water resources and will have a tendency to regulate them or prescribe certain rules to him and to establish a more stringent regime. I think at this point that this is in the interest of society and that this is necessary if we want to address the issue of water resources and the protection of water resources. There's one more thing I'd like to point out here. For more than six months there are basically three proposals in the House, they are draft constitutional laws. The first was submitted by the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia and has a House number 508, the second was submitted by the KDU-ČSL and the number 526, the third was submitted by STAN and the top and the number 549. I know that these are constitutional proposals that go either to the Constitution or to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. However, it would be good for us to also take into account the dimension of strengthening the constitutional protection of water resources when discussing water law, because this is a matter which is absolutely necessary and which, if it were to happen, would also partly eliminate the discussions that are going to take place on the ground of the relevant committees to which the law will be ordered, and perhaps even in plenary here in the Houses. This means how legitimate it will be to enter property rights or similar rights - possession and management of various water resources, various water works, small or larger power plants, ponds and other facilities that strengthen and help to retain water in the landscape. So much for my contribution to this bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u13	Now I'm going to read another apology. From 17.30 to the end of the day, Mr Jiří Mihola apologizes for reasons of work. I will now ask Mr Radek Holomčík to speak and Mr Zdeněk Podal will prepare himself. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing another amendment to the Water Act and one of the leitmotivs that appears in the explanatory report is that this amendment is intended to address drought. Of course, that can be agreed with. But the problem I see is that much of the things that are being realized are already dealing with the consequences. We're talking about supply of drinking water. We're talking about these other proposals, some connection between water systems, water resources, which, of course, is fine, and they're important debates, and I'm glad they're going on. But we're still missing the cause. The cause is just in the country. The reason is the state of the Czech landscape, the state of our soils. And, of course, the fact that in the past, in many places, it has essentially been eliminated or to a large extent damaged by the so-called small water cycle. Before I get to the text itself, I would like to make a few more general comments on how we are dealing with or not dealing with drought issues. A colleague of the previous speaker mentioned in his speech the law on the protection of the agricultural soil fund, namely anti-erosion decree. For a long time, it was Mrs. Columbová, who everyone was talking about, no one had ever seen her. Some time ago, a proposal appeared in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, we read it, I read the comments as well, for example comments from the Ministry of Agriculture. And I confess that I do not feel that this proposal has any great chance of entering into force. And if it came into force, we're not entirely convinced that it would bring what it should bring, that is, soil protection against erosion. The next thing I have to mention, if we're talking about the landscape, there are forests. The Czech Republic is quite unique in that a significant part, actually a larger half of the forests own the state. Of the total area of forests, 48 percent is in the administration of the state enterprise Forests of the Czech Republic and it is roughly, just a reminder, one-sixth of the area of this country. At the beginning of the year, we criticised the strategy that has been in place since September of last year and is until 2024. I would like to say one thing, because the reaction of both the Minister and the Ministry was quite irritable, so to be fair and to be fair, so I want to say that this strategy is definitely not bad as a whole. Not bad. It's not like they say we don't agree with one sentence at a time. There's a lot of cool stuff in it. Some passages reminiscent of a modern textbook setting up forests, and that's certainly a good thing. [[15.30 hours]] What bothers us most about it in principle is two things. One is the economy, the business model. From our point of view, the lack of the strategy reflects that the crust disaster we now have was largely accelerated by the business model that the forests had in the past. The business model ripped control of the forest from the hands of the foresters, put it somewhere else, and from our point of view, the strategy does not reflect this fact enough. Second thing. There's a lot of talk, and even during the amendment of the forest law, it sounded here, and there's a lot of talk about the damage caused by the animals during the restoration of the forest. And I have to say that even the concept of thinking, which is somehow portrayed in that strategy, does not give us sufficient assurance that forests will be able to limit the damage to the resurgence of animals. [[caused by]] What seems extremely absurd to me, and I'm sure we'll talk about it another time or another, is that they should rent out the fields to a mass extent. That seems to me to be over the edge. Another issue is the protection of existing water resources. The Minister and, by extension, the Ministry of Agriculture launched a series of negotiations to find some form of constitutional law to protect water. And I think that's a good thing, and I thank you from this place for this initiative. I think it's necessary to at least talk about how the protection of water and water resources should take place. But I'm a little skeptical because I don't see the basic problem in that we have extremely leaky legislation, but in that we just can't follow it. And the question is, how and if a possible constitutional law can or cannot handle this. And with those water resources, I would definitely like us to continue talking about, for example, the Želivka. Now we're talking about investing in technologies that should improve water treatment for drinking water, but I want to ask how it is possible, what is the essence of the pollution that is happening there. With Minister Brabc here since I was in the Chamber of Deputies, we have been discussing our local case in South Moravia about the fifth largest source of drinking water in the Czech Republic. Nor do I feel that the state is right to protect this water source. And if we go a few kilometers, I suspect 15, further, we can look at another water source at the Ostroje Nové Ves and see what's going on in the protection zones that are being built there, and if the authorities know about it, and if so, what do they know about it? So much for protection. We simply lack a systematic approach to the landscape. We have data, various academic institutions, non-profit institutions, but also organisations established by the Ministry of Environment or the Ministry of Agriculture. They can monitor the landscape and what is happening in it in a rather interesting way, they can generate a lot of data that should be the basis of our work and our thinking about the landscape. And it's not like that. We have tools. We have land modifications. Everywhere they say it's a great tool. Over the years, in the time when the land changes are in our country, so if we take the locations where the land adjustments have already been made, where they are being planned and where they are being planned, we're talking about millions of hectares of land. And I am terribly sorry that there is no will to use this instrument more. I designed for this budget, virtually. to the budget for this year, an increase in the budget for land adjustments by 400 million, which would lead us to 100 per cent of the capacity with which the State Land Office is able to implement land adjustments projects. Mrs Krutáková proposed 300 million, which would also help things. Unfortunately, this just didn't happen. And the next thing you know, they're not just landscaping. We also have other tools, alternative tools that even landowners can work with. I will often mention in the media and on social networks the model Zdoňov, which has great potential to do exactly the things the landscape needs to do in the landscape. And the support is minimal, if any. And, of course, it's not just about some monitoring and some reconstruction, but we need to focus on landscape management as well. Farmers, foresters, and other people who manage the landscape are - and forgive me for the term - bullied by a bunch of different regulations, regulations, but the essentials, what the landscape needs, we deal with at least. And I am sorry that the government with its ministries has not yet come up with some really systemic and systematic solution, which would be from the stage of monitoring and exploring the landscape through its reconstruction, and would also be reflected in regulations and in the state administration, which somehow regulates the management of the landscape. Then I guess we'll have to do it ourselves. And now I'm gonna get to the water law itself. As I said at the outset, I do not consider this novel to be a bad thing. I think that many of the ideas that are in the novel are, of course, correct. But I blame her for solving the consequences, not the cause. And what I miss most there, and I will do it in the second reading and committee discussions, is, first, some greater and more meaningful protection of protected areas of natural water accumulation. I have already proposed an amendment during the discussion of the last amendment, which concerned Section 28, which deals with the so-called. CHOPAV, to make protection more consistent and reflect the fact that we are talking about both hydrologically and hydrogeologically important, quite possibly the most important locations in our country. The second thing I'm missing is some sort of system grip. river landscapes. Riverland and river beds are places where water flows that can't contain land and greenery. And I think that the water law should somehow accentuate the importance of the river landscape, the importance of natural river beds to return the water to the landscape and to have better options for soaking in. And I think it is important to get three simple principles into that law to distinguish between intravillain and free landscape in this matter, so that flows are not tubularised in the free landscape, or some justified exception, and that every watercourse in the free landscape has some protection zone with some clearly defined way of management, so that there are no negative consequences of poor farming practices. It is not a merry talk, but I believe that there will be a number of good and substantive comments during the committee hearing. Some proposals, or at least their material intentions, I had the opportunity to see and we will certainly support them. And I hope we take advantage of the opportunity to open the law on water right now. That is, the most important thing, or one of the most important things that we have, and what we need to do to help the landscape, but also the farmers who manage the landscape so that water problems are hypothetical and that we and our children and our children do not really have to deal with drought. Because I really don't want to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u15	Now I'll read the apology. Mr Antonín Staněk apologizes for today's meeting from 17.00 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Jaroslav Holík, Mr Zdeněk Podal in the general debate, will now make a point of fact. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u16	Mr President, fellow ministers, colleagues, I would like to follow up with my colleague, Holomčík, who has listed several water resources in Moravia here and forgotten one of the most important. We have five takers in Moravia. Everything is surface water, except the area of the industrial zone in Holešov. Under this zone, which we want to build with factories, there is a huge lake, about 60 meters thick layer of sand, and on it it is covered with clay. It is water that flows from the Hostyn Hills. And I would very much like us not to stop this and leave this water to our children. Why do I say that? This year's winter is very low on water, and we're about to have the driest year here. And I am very sorry that when I proposed to protect water resources in the state budget of 200 million, that it was the YES club or the entire government coalition, respectively, that it was rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u17	Mr Zdeněk Podal will now appear and prepare Mrs Dana Balcarová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u18	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, a lot has been said, and I will try to contribute a few points. In the last seven years, 11 major agricultural drought episodes have occurred in the Czech Republic since 2012, with effects on the landscape and the economy, especially on agriculture, fruit and forestry. Water is disappearing from the landscape, we have heard that here, groundwater levels are dropping, shallow wells, rivers flowing, reservoirs in the dams, and drinking water is falling in the localities. Sometimes drinking water is imported now. The cause of the increasingly frequent drought is the changing climate, the negative effects of climate trends amplifying improper management. The average annual temperature in the Czech Republic has increased by 1.1 °C in the last two hundred years. Despite the decline in recent years, the amount of rainfall is roughly the same in the long term. But their variability is changing. They're more intense, alternated over longer periods without precipitation. Higher temperature brings higher evaporation, milder winters and earlier beginnings of spring and summer. It's a longer growing season. The plants will exhaust the water and threaten to dry out sooner. The Czech Republic is the imaginary roof of Europe, from the point of view of water resources it is dependent on precipitation, and exceptionally we will find a river that flows to us and brings water - for example Austria's Dyje or Ohře from Germany. On the contrary, our rivers supply water to territories in neighboring states. A lasting improvement in the situation can only be achieved through rapid interventions, i.e. a responsible climate policy, reduction of emissions, adaptation of the landscape and its recovery. I can add something from our region, where the need for the Pěčín dam is long overdue. Unfortunately, there is no interest in the region, the mayors of the municipalities concerned, and yet the region will pay for it. At the same time, I would remember the fairy tale of Salt above gold. That's where they said, "Salm, such a mineral, there's plenty of it." Everyone has it. There's water in a similar situation. We had enough until recently. No one had to spare it, so we sold it to foreign companies, and today we see the problems we've caused ourselves. I can say for us, for the SPD, that we support this law and all the measures that prevent the unpleasant situations that bring drought in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u19	I will now ask Mrs Dana Balcarová to speak and Mr Pavel Kováčik will prepare himself. Madam, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that I am glad that this novel is now on our table. I think it really is to prepare a crisis plan for a moment when the water will be scarce and it will have to be dealt with, because somewhere somewhere today water supply is provided by tanks and the assumption that this summer will be one of the most dry. Since there is little snow, it is not counted that groundwater will be replenished during spring, and we can expect this situation to occur quite soon when we need this crisis plan. That is why I am pleased that the Ministry of Agriculture is presenting this amendment to us, and it is now up to us to look into this properly in the committees and, if necessary, to remove some things or to make some adjustments by means of amendments that would perhaps remove some shortcomings. So I very much welcome this amendment. I would like to say that when we talk about the availability of water, we should also talk about its quality, so that the quality is sufficient, and also about the price for the end consumer, because at present the price in some regions is quite high, and we should not forget that the price should be socially sustainable and should be available for everyone. I'm not saying it should be wasted, but to some extent it should be affordable for everyone. The Environment Committee has prepared a seminar to which I would like to invite you, at 19. 2. which we organize in cooperation with the Czech Academy of Sciences, which is currently devoted to water from the point of view of its availability, quality and price. So there we would like to discuss this issue with experts from the Czech Academy of Sciences. So that is all for me, and then I would like to submit that I will propose that this amendment be ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a second committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u21	Thank you and you will, of course, have the opportunity to sign up for your proposal. Then I will challenge you when we vote on the commandments of the committees. Mr Pavel Kováčik will now appear and prepare himself as the last Mrs Jana Krutáková. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I like that, Madam and gentlemen, this debate is actually going on as a general one, the general water management context is mentioned, and the fact that, finally, after many years of talking about the need for better water management, water retention in the countryside, measures that would lead to improving the ability of the landscape not only to take water but also to maintain and gradually release it, that we are getting to a stage where we already feel like a hot problem. Some call it water well - being, a condition that is slowly ending for us at these times. It is a necessity, these resources are becoming increasingly less and less and with what is left to us and how we are going - so far - climate change, we will probably have to actually accept, as humanity, whether globally or on the basis of individual states, measures that would allow better water to be managed and that would enable water to be kept or put back in public hands, even the question of the price for the final consumer, plays a very important role in this. I'm going to try, because here we talked about the aspects of ecological, landscaper and so on, to mention what is closer to me as the shoemakers of his hoof, and that is the question of the aspect of agriculture. You know, it's not the individual aspects of treatment, management, water maintenance and so on, separate. We have to consider that this is a very complex system of water cycle in nature and that this system affects many factors, and if we break one of them, then it collapses like a house of cards, as it often does - especially in South Moravia - we can see. We see in the impact not only that the water is not getting, but that soil degradation, I mean agricultural land, arable land, is getting worse from the point of view of dustiness. For example, until recently, even in South Moravia, what is a dust storm, and today it is quite - especially during the summer season - a common condition. Until recently, no one could imagine that we would have to deal seriously with changes in agrotechnologies and changes in the composition of grown crops, so that we could maintain agricultural production in the more arid areas, etc. etc. [[15.50 hours]] One of the main factors which, in my view, have been violated, however, was, or is the situation, which, after the agricultural balance, i.e. the balance of animal and plant production to the detriment of livestock production, has led to dramatically decreasing humus content in the soil. We know that the humus content in the soil is not only a factor in soil fertility, the retention of nutrients in the soil, the soil's ability to give that crop, and not at all, so that the plants can live in it, but also one of the factors that determines the soil's ability to retain water in its soil profile and, if necessary, to allow it to continue to subsoil or to release it out through springs, but also to keep the water more resistant to vapor in that profile. I must say that by limiting itself to a large extent here, I speak very gently, reducing livestock production, especially cattle, sheep, herbivores, so suddenly what we have been taught in agricultural schools for decades, that in this Central European space the soil needs to supply humus, it needs to supply organic matter to maintain the humus content, so it no longer applies. We don't have anything to do with it. If, of course, cattle stocks have decreased to less than 50 per cent in dairy cows and subsequent categories too, then we are dramatically lacking in soil the humus supplied that the soil itself cannot create. Moreover, it is reflected in the composition of crops in plant production, because there are beautiful recommendations from different wise heads: farmers, grow more clover, permanent grass crops, alfalfa, what about the rape? You've got too much of it in there! Well, when the clover, alfalfa and other crops that are significantly able to increase humus content and retain water in the soil, defend soil erosion, we don't then have how to process further, who to feed, as they say, because there are those necks that consume the alfalfa and the clover, missing. The heads were cut off in the early '90s. So this is something to be taken seriously, which is why the Ministry of Agriculture has been very intensively supporting the restoration of livestock production where it has disappeared for the second three years, it also supports the cultivation of various intermediate crops, subsequent crops, bio-bands and similar issues, which will enable the soil to return to the function that is quite primary in the context of water retention in the landscape today. I also welcome the fact that there is an effort by various parliamentary parties to give, my colleague Grospič here mentioned it, to give water constitutional protection. From my point of view, it doesn't matter if constitutional protection is enshrined directly in the Constitution or if it is constitutional law. We have also been very involved in this, and I also welcome the fact that the working group has succeeded in a kind of outline or basis of the law, which should sum up all the good that is in the individual laws, and put it in a kind of compression form, compressed form, so that it can actually be discussed, that therefore the deadline for submitting any proposals is over and that the proposal for constitutional protection of water will come out with it. It's one for the water, for the landscape, whether it's Petr or Pavel. The important thing is that it is, and we have, I think, quite everyone who's talking about it, quite a major part of it. As far as other aspects are concerned, I think the fact that 300 million CZK is earmarked in this year's state budget for the possible purchase of shares of foreign water companies back into public hands in the Czech Republic is the beginning of this - somebody has also criticized that water companies have sold themselves into foreign hands in those wild 1990s and we can't quite dictate what the price of water will be. I am convinced that, as this process will somehow become more visible, to make it real, so it will also affect the price of water, and if it is not, we are ready and we are, somehow, the first to say it, and this is how I say it publicly for the first time, we are prepared to adopt such proposals, which, especially for the general consumer, will ensure that water price is not the limiting factor in the deterioration of life situation. Yes, I am talking about, if necessary, proposing, for example, a ceiling on water prices for citizens, for ordinary consumers, so that the price ceiling is a real price ceiling so that water is not overpriced for citizens and residents. I am convinced that this bill, which we are currently discussing, will reflect and reflect all the general and specific requirements for what it should be, in addition to the fact that it is a law implementing the regulation of the European Union, that it will therefore be a law for the Czech landscape, for the Czech citizen, for the Czech farmer and for what we are all calling now, that is, for better water retention in the countryside and better water management. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u23	Now I have two factual points here. Mr Jan Zahradník will prepare Mr Marek Výborný and then Mrs Jana Krutáková in the debate. Member Jan zahradník. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u24	Thank you, sir, Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I always have to come forward and set it right when my colleague Kováčik speaks with that gloomy forecast, both a large part of the water infrastructure in the hands of those foreign companies, because a large part, say about 90 per cent of the water infrastructure, the pipes, the pumps, etc., is in the hands of municipalities, associations of municipalities, or companies that have established these associations of municipalities or these municipalities. Perhaps in Moravia some of these material resources are actually sold and belong to those companies. The fact that municipalities hire different companies to manage this property is true. It always happens on the basis of the concession contract by the decision of the council. Those contracts used to be for a long time, I don't know, about 15-17 years. Now, according to the new rules laid down by the European Commission, the periods are already shorter, so the municipalities are negotiating with the companies for a shorter lease period, they agree on how much, for what financial volumes they will rent to the companies, and also, of course, how much profit they will benefit from it. This is always a matter of the council, which, of course, also decides on the amount of water and sewerage in those municipalities. How the municipalities will then deal with the funds received, whether they will dissolve them in their budget, or whether they will spend them to restore the water infrastructure, that is the second thing. However, the report on the state of the environment over the last few years states that the state of the infrastructure is still improving despite all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u25	Thank you for keeping up the time, and before Mr Marek the Výborný comes forward, I will read two apologies. So Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala, apologizes today from 16 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons, and Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes between 15.30 and 19.00 for working reasons. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u26	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, it is not often that I should give the truth to my honourable colleague Kováčik, but this time I must do so. Thank you for mentioning the issue of constitutional water protection. We have more or less met here, although the content of these proposals is a little different, but of course that may be in the debate. I'd like to support it, what he said. I am even convinced that there are three designs here today - one from the KDU-ČSL workshop, from the KSČM workshop, the third, if I am not mistaken, from the workshop of the Mayors and Independents - let us join the matter together calmly within the framework of the joint discussion of these points. Let's move this because it's not a formal thing, it's a symbolic thing. But if this succeeds, among other things, there will be a clearly defined public interest and it will not be possible then in the public interest to superior e.g. extraction of gravel sand or building of some storage facilities above water and soil protection. Maybe this will cause a little trouble for Minister Brabco. But I think it is necessary, if we really want to defend the interests of the public, to take care of the water and the soil, to do so. And I admit that I wouldn't exactly wait here for what the Ministry of Agriculture has announced, because I see it, of course, it's a repeated government tactic: if other parties come up with something, NGOs here in the House, so come up with a theory that we'll prepare it differently and better and better and better and in full context - I don't know in what else. The three proposals are here. Let's talk about them. I will, of course, be happy for the opinion of Minister Toman and others. Let's move this thing forward, because that's at least the first step, which, of course, must be followed by further measures, whether by law or by law, at the level of the Ministry of Agriculture, at the level of the Ministry of Environment, which will actually follow what we all want here, and it doesn't matter which side we are from, to protect water and soil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u27	Thank you. Good afternoon. And now, please, Mrs Krutáková, who is the last one to be logged in to the debate at the moment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u28	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, esteemed colleagues. I will just briefly comment on the amendment to the water law submitted by the government, which has been in the House system since the end of July. Submitted amendment, so called. dry head, largely copying measures against floods, which I see as not a very good solution. Even from the logic of the matter, the flood is a diametrically different matter from the drought. The fundamental difference is that the flood will always reach us in the short term, while drought has plagued us for several years. Of course, dry commissions are created in the design of the novel, in a dry head. But unfortunately, the very smallest communities, which certainly will also be affected by the lack of water, have been eliminated from these dry commissions. The submitted amendment only offers us short-term solutions. But I'm sure time requires the long-term. We can't just solve the drought problem with commissions or by buying new tanks. That is why, in addition to organizational matters, we should rather address the re-use of water, its recycling, as water becomes a scarce commodity. For example, as a solution, I would also see, in addition to the use of precipitation water, the use of grey water, which already works perfectly, for example, in Israel. And in this spirit, our movement, the Mayors and the Independents, will also submit some amendments. I'm sure the amendment to water law is important. The mayors and independents will certainly support it at first reading. But the lack of water and the drought problem should be addressed throughout its wide range, not just by the amendment of the water law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u29	Thank you. And that was the last application for a general debate at the moment. So if anyone else doesn't come forward and I don't see anybody, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in the Minister's final words. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u30	So, once again, hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I want to thank you for the discussion. Lots of useful things fell in there. And I just want to respond to one last thing Mr. Výborný said here. It's not a tactic on my part. Maybe it would be nice if somebody read what I said when I joined the minister's post, that I would submit a law on constitutional water protection. I'm not going to argue with anyone who was first, second or third. Mr. Kováčik said it exactly. It doesn't matter if Petr or Pavel submit it. I mean, within two weeks, three weeks, we're gonna make a motion here, put it at the disposal of individual MPs. Individual political parties were invited to the round table of the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for the Environment. A draft constitutional law for water protection is created, in simple terms, on the basis of an analysis of the Faculty of Law of Charles University. I think it's better if we set it up in cooperation with them. Within fourteen days, three weeks, in order within a month, this will be presented to the MPs, and I think it can be combined with this law. So much for clarification. It's not a tactic on my part. I'm a little sorry because whoever knows me knows I don't play these games. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u31	Thank you. And the rapporteur, if he's interested. He's not interested in the final word. In that case, the proposals that we should be voting at this time have not been made. And we will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. I've already called my colleagues to the O.R. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the agricultural committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? Mrs Balcarová. Please. [[He doesn't want to get out.]] So not a guarantee. Okay. If no one else has a proposal... Is there an application for a check-out? Yes. I'll check you out. Please log in with your cards again. And I'm going to use that time before the number of entries is settled for me to repeat that we're going to vote on the press no. 556 to the agricultural committee as a guarantee committee. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes the commandment of this committee? Thank you. At the end of the vote number 145, 123 Members and Members of Parliament are signed up for all 123 Members. So I'm saying that we ordered the proposal to the agricultural committee as a guarantee committee. And now I ask who has the motion on the next committee's commandment. I have already noted the proposal for the Environment Committee's commandment. First I give the floor to the rapporteur, then to Mr Munzar. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u32	I'm joining the proposal for an environmental committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u33	Thank you. Mr. MP...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that this proposal for a water law should also be directed to the Economic Committee, precisely because of Section 12, which has already been mentioned here by Mr Zahradník by you, and this is the introduction of some legal uncertainty into this part of the energy sector. And it is energy that is part of what the economic committee is dealing with. That is why I propose the economic committee next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-007-023.u35	Thank you. So we have two suggestions. Does anyone else have a proposal for another committee? If that is not the case, then we will proceed to the vote. So, first of all, there is a motion for a commandment from the Committee on the Environment as another committee. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes the environmental committee's commandment? Thank you. In the 146 vote, 132 Members and Members are enrolled for 131. The motion was accepted. And now we will consider the proposal for a commandment to the Economic Committee. I have begun the vote. I ask who is for the commandment to the Economic Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 147 vote, 132 Members and Members are registered, for 119, against no one. So I note that we have ordered this proposal to the Committee on the Environment and the Economic Committee as further committees for discussion. These are all the proposals in this press at the moment. So I'm going to end this point and move on. The next point is
