ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-008-012.u1	12. Proposal for a Law on certain measures to mitigate the effects of the Coronavirus known as SARS-CoV-2 in the area of demonstrating compliance with qualification assumptions for labour relations /house printing 881/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments, and his resolution was delivered as House press 881/2. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. Senator Jitka Chalánková is already among us. I will ask the Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček to comment on the Senate resolution and the amendments tabled. But before I give him my word, I will ask the House for peace! If you are discussing another subject, please in the foyer! Vice-President of the Government, wait a little longer. I'm gonna ask these guys to go into the lobby and discuss outside the meeting room! Word will be given to Deputy Prime Minister Karel Havlíček. But just a little longer! If any club requires a break, at the request of the club president, I will grant it to it. It's not like that. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-008-012.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the discussion of the Senate, I would like to present to you the Government's proposal for a law on certain measures to mitigate the effects of the Coronavirus in the area of demonstrating compliance with qualifications for employment relations. I say in advance that the applicant's representative, as Ministry of Industry and Trade, agrees with both amendments arising from the Senate's deliberations. In particular, it is an extension of the scope of the Act until 30 June 2021 and its extension to carriers pursuant to Section 35 of the Railway Act. In general, the proposal aims for an emergency period and in the following subsequent period to address the situation of the factual impossibility of fulfilling the employee's qualification assumptions in the employment relationship, including demonstrating them as required by the specific legal and technical provisions contained in the draft law. It is therefore proposed to set rules for the period up to mid- 2021 in relation to pandemics that ensure formal fulfilment of the requirement of legal and technical standards for the performance of agreed types of work. The draft law extends the validity of documents to demonstrate compliance with the qualification prerequisites for the performance of work laid down by specific legislation laying down specific requirements for the qualification prerequisites associated with the performance of work. The adoption of this law should certainly contribute to overcoming the consequences of an economic epidemic and ensure, if possible, a rapid return of our country to its pre-crisis state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-008-012.u3	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. I will now ask Senator Jitka Chalánková to justify the Senate resolution. You have your word, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-008-012.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, once again, honourable Members, I will follow up on the Minister's words and, in general, I would like to comment on the amendments that have been adopted in the Senate. On the basis of the amendment, the possibility of extending the validity of qualification assumptions will be created in essence by existing documents not only for railway operators but also for rail operators. This minor adjustment should have a significant positive impact in relation to the employees of the carriers, namely the drivers. Verification of qualification assumptions of the so-called professional competence is more closely bound by legislation and in relation to EU requirements in the case of drivers, thus carrying out tests and training in such a standard way is more complex in the present time than in the case of railway operator staff. It should be stressed that a significant proportion of railway freight carriers are also railway operators, especially lifts, and therefore, even in this context, it appears to be unbalanced and unjustified to provide for the possibility of recognising qualification requirements only for railway operators. So we corrected this part by amending the Senate and, at the same time, the amendment also moved the end of the law from 31 December 2020 to 30 June 2021. During the meeting in the Senate, representatives of both the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Transport supported us, and therefore I also dare ask you to support this bill as referred to by the Senate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-008-012.u5	I thank Senator Jitka Chalánková and ask if the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Lucie Šafránková, wants to comment on the Senate resolution. He is not interested, in which case I open the debate and I note that I have no application for it. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. This is not the case, I am ending the debate. We can proceed according to § 97 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, when the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed to adopt the following resolution. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft law on certain measures to mitigate the effects of the Coronavirus identified as SARS-CoV-2 in the area of demonstrating the fulfilment of qualifications for employment relations, according to the Parliament's press 881, as approved by the Senate, according to the Parliament's press 881/2.' I've started the vote on order number 27, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 27 from the presence of 176 for 155, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have given our consent to the draft law, as approved by the Senate, and it has been adopted. Thank you to Minister and Vice Prime Minister Karel Havlíček, thank you to Mrs Jitka Chalánková. I'm done with point number one. 12. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] We've got a point ahead of us.
