ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u1	387. Government bill repealing the Senate's statutory measure No. 340/2013 Sb., on real estate acquisition tax, as amended, and amends and repeals other related legislation /house print 866/ - second reading Under the authority of the government, the draft bill will be presented by Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová... [[The secretary stays on the bench.]] Madam Secretary is here, but she hasn't heard my call to introduce us or to present the bill in the second reading, but it has already happened. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have some flaws today. I'm sorry. I'm gonna be two minutes late, and now I'm gonna talk, so it won't happen again. I'll do my best. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce to you the bill abolishing the Senate's legal action No. 340/2013 Coll., on Real Estate Acquisition Tax, as amended, and other related regulations are amended and repealed. There has been a significant increase in real estate prices in recent years. The steep increase in prices is one of the reasons that led to difficulties in housing availability. In the current situation where the company is dealing with a pandemic caused by the spread of coronavirus and has to deal with the impact of this virus on society, it is necessary to respond to this situation. The proposal therefore consists of abolishing the tax on the acquisition of real estate and, at the same time, the subsequent adjustments to the Income Tax Act, which will result in simplification and clarification of the tax system and the abolition of other tax exemptions. By abolishing the real estate acquisition tax, there will be a reduction in the cost of the acquisition of own housing, which is rapidly increasing the growth in real estate prices for real estate buyers, and this also complicates the possibility of obtaining own housing, especially for young families. The payment of the real estate acquisition tax represents a further spending of a significant amount of money, namely tens to hundreds of thousands of additional crowns, which could otherwise be invested in the repair and reconstruction of real estate, household equipment and other matters related to the acquisition of real estate. [[Noise in the hall.]] As a contribution to the abolition of the real estate acquisition tax, investment in real estate is expected to increase due to a reduction in the cost of purchase, which will lead to a recovery in the real estate market and an increase in the income of States, municipalities and regions from other taxes, in particular value added tax and income tax. Another benefit of the abolition of the real estate acquisition tax is the reduction of administrative costs associated with the administration of the tax, especially for taxpayers. However, it will also be saved on the part of the State if it is not necessary to print the forms of tax return and invest in technical support for the administration of the real estate acquisition tax. I'm sure that's important, too. Several adjustments to the Income Tax Act are also proposed in connection with the abolition of the real estate acquisition tax. The primary reason for the proposed amendments to the Income Tax Act in conjunction with the abolition of the real estate acquisition tax is to remove from the tax system several inconsistent elements which are mutually contradictory. Since free funds originally intended to pay the real estate acquisition tax will now remain available to taxpayers, this amount will no longer need to be compensated by a deduction of interest on loans to secure housing needs from the income tax base. Moreover, this deduction was supported in the long run only by taxpayers who used debt financing to acquire their own housing. It was therefore a non-systemic exception. However, the proposed change will concern taxpayers who will be provided with housing needs from 1 January 2022. Thus, an adjustment will apply to old credit relationships, including their refinancing. That's a lot of questions. Another change related to the cancellation of the real estate acquisition tax is the extension of the so-called a time test for the exemption of income from the sale of immovable property not purchased for the purposes of own housing, from the five to ten years to now. In principle, the larger part of the tax advantage enjoyed by investors who invest in real estate at the moment, thus creating more scope for the real estate market to acquire their own housing and contributing to the reduction of speculative real estate procurement. However, this change does not affect the exemption from the sale of immovable property in which the seller is resident or when the taxpayer sells such immovable property for the purpose of his own housing and buys another immovable property in which he will live. The extended time test shall apply only to immovable property acquired from 1 January 2021. The old immovable property will thus continue to be exempted under the existing conditions. The overall impact of the proposal on public budgets is fiscally negative, at a rate of less CZK 10.6 billion in 2020, minus CZK 3.8 billion in the following years. It is, in fact, a tax that is exclusively a revenue from the state budget. The real estate tax is an exclusive state tax, and therefore the abolition will only affect the state budget, that is what I have just said. On the contrary, as a result of the already mentioned increase in the collection of income tax and value added tax, an increase of up to CZK 0,2 billion per year and an increase of up to CZK 0,5 billion per year can be expected due to the multiplier effects. Thank you for your attention and thank you for your support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u3	Thank you. At first reading, the proposal was directed to the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. The House Press 866/1 is a committee resolution that has been delivered to us. The Committee's rapporteur is Mr Karel Rais. I ask that he inform us of the committee's deliberations and, if necessary, of the amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u4	Have a good day. The Committee on Budgets dealt with this issue, several amendments were made, but the Committee on Budgets actually approved a single proposal, and that was the government proposal, as quoted by the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate. Anyone reporting for the general debate? Mr Vojtěch Munzar is the first to report to the general debate, and I will gradually record other applications. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Hello again, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government, Madam Secretary. I listened very carefully to what you said at the beginning, Madam Secretary. And I would agree with one part de facto, because these are actually the same arguments that we have used for several years to cancel the property acquisition tax. I am, of course, glad that the moment has drawn near, that we can abolish this absurd, absolutely absurd tax, which punishes citizens only for buying real estate in the Czech Republic. Of course, it is pointless to demand a tax of 4 percent from the property price from buyers. Many in the middle class already have a problem with the existing property price to save on participation and at the same time on tax. In other words, this tax is increasing property by 4 percent today. But what I can't agree with, Madam Secretary, is your supplements, the terms for abolishing the property acquisition tax. We have always proposed the abolition of the property acquisition tax without additional conditions here, because our motivation was to increase housing availability, reduce housing, make property housing available to the widest possible range of our residents. Because ownership housing is a value to us in itself, it strengthens our society, strengthens citizens' independence, strengthens people's responsibility, strengthens civil responsibility. And what else should the state support but the efforts of people to secure housing for themselves and their descendants? In a natural way, ownership of housing strengthens citizens' relationship with the place where they live, their community and their surroundings. And it's also, of course, a natural form of property security. From my point of view, it's more effective when people invest in their own housing than when they pay to borrow foreign property. But unfortunately, the government's specific proposal and, in particular, the abolition of tax deductions on mortgage interest shows that the government does not think too much about the social impact, the positive externalities of ownership housing, and comes only with a technocratic hand-to-handle solution for something. I said it here at first reading. I said that the abolition of property acquisition tax is a step forward, but the abolition of the only property housing promotion that the middle class has today, that is the abolition of tax deductions on mortgages, is also a step backwards, so the government is on the spot. 'Cause people are actually gonna pay their taxes differently. I will allow myself to insert, which I also thought of before the previous discussion of the draft budget of the State Housing Development Fund. It scares me a little bit when I hear government officials' comments about housing, because from my point of view, it shows cluelessness and groping. What we often hear is that we have a high ratio of ownership housing, like it's something bad, like it's something negative, like it exists - I'm not saying that you, Madam Secretary, but you have colleagues in the government who say that - like there's a percentage. And for me, it's ideal for the percentage of ownership housing to be as high as possible for people to own their homes. From many of the mouths of government officials and Prime Minister, we have often heard some criticism of the privatization of the housing fund of municipalities. It's like we don't all remember uniform gray and the rustic state of the housing estates and housing houses in state and later municipal property. It's like we don't remember why the privatization of the housing fund was often criticized by the government today. It was as if we had forgotten that there was no housing market before, that it had to be created. It is as if we have forgotten that the privatization of the housing fund and the transfer of the property form of housing together with the restitution were the engine of improving the state of our cities. This is what the development of personal property ownership has contributed to. And that is one of the reasons why we want to continue to support ownership. We want the next generation to live in their own place and to have the conditions, and the state should create the conditions. That is why all the proposals that I will be presenting here now aim to increase accessibility and make housing cheaper. Like some colleagues, I am coming up with the annulment of the proposal for annulment - the abolition of the proposal for the abolition of tax deductions of interest on mortgages. Madam Secretary here said it was a non-systemic tax exemption. However, for me, it is really the only support of the middle class to acquire their own housing. Of course, the government's attempt to abolish this at the same time as the abolition of the real estate tax will put the majority population, which is now financing housing by mortgage, at a certain disadvantage. Maybe it's better for her, and I've already said that here at first reading, it's better that she doesn't have the accumulated funds to pay the real estate tax, but she'll pay it differently, in a different way. In fact, with this proposal, the government is exchanging a one-off tax burden for increasing the tax burden over time. It may be convenient for more mobile citizens who do not have to take a mortgage, but they are probably not most. Most citizens have to finance their housing by mortgage because they don't have that kind of savings. This is a disadvantage for the acquirer of new real estate, because the real estate acquisition tax is no longer applicable to new buildings and mortgage deductions do. Of course, we support the abolition of the property acquisition tax, but I come up with an amendment to maintain tax deductions on mortgages, in several variants. One option is to maintain the current situation, the other option is, let's say, to reduce the mortgage deduction level a little bit in one year. I confess that I was a little motivated by the performance of my colleague, Mr Hrnčíř, through you, at first reading, which proposes a reduction in interest deduction to the level of CZK 100,000. This proposal seems insufficient to me, and this is because of the fact that in the first years of mortgage lending, of course, the total part of the instalment contains a larger interest rate. This means that in the case of a 100 thousand frontier, this would really apply only to very cheap and very small apartments and would not apply, for example. the standard price of flats in larger cities. Therefore, I propose the option of 150 or 200,000 crowns. If these proposals fail, I will at least come up with a compromise solution and thus extend them for a year to a transitional period when the property acquisition tax will be abolished, but at the same time the deductions of mortgage interest will be maintained. The government proposes this period by 1 January 2022 due to the effects of the coronavirus crisis and says that this is an attempt to stimulate the real estate market. I believe that the real estate market always responds with a delay to economic crises and economic developments. It's logical. I therefore propose to extend this transitional period for a year. With another amendment, I am responding to the abolition of the advantage for new buildings precisely because of the abolition of mortgages deductions. We all know that the problem with the high prices of real estate that the Minister has been talking about is the problem, particularly on the supply side. So one way to stimulate the development of supply and reduce the price of real estate is to reduce VAT to new buildings. Therefore, one of the amendments is to reduce VAT to small flats, for which there is now 15 % VAT, to 10 %, and I have two options for the amendment, one for the future forever, the other is limited in time because of the Corona crisis 2020 by the end of 2023, so that I consider it a compromise solution. It really has its effect, reducing VAT, because from my point of view it is a high impulse to reboot the economy. The reduction in the VAT rate in construction has a high multiplier impact on the economy. For your information only, according to many economic analyses, CZK 1 million invested in construction has the potential to increase production of the Czech Republic by up to CZK 3 million. And just for comparison, we have a social apartment, for those small apartments, 15 percent, in Poland they have 8 percent, in France 5.5 %, in Hungary 5 %. So that's one of the reasons why I'm coming up with this proposal. [[17.10 hours]] The last package of amendments responds to what the Minister has also said here, and this is an increase in the tax test from five to ten years, and a new construction of possible counting of money into her own housing. Madam Secretary, what you have in the explanatory memorandum, and what you said here at the beginning, that is an economically absurd justification. You're not moving the housing market by increasing your tax! Have you ever seen a market that moved by increasing its tax? I don't think so, because the investors you talked about, who quickly spin apartments, quickly buy them, quickly sell them with profit, so today they do the same thing until the five years, and they're already counting the cost of income tax on that property price. Those who have been involved in this for a long time have counted the risk of extending the tax test into their portfolio and will keep the apartments even longer. That means there won't be any movement with the apartments. [[market]] Do you know, Madam Secretary, who's going to get it? Do you know who it's gonna come down to? It will fall on an ordinary citizen who, for example, inherited one property, has it for children, because of some economic crisis he gets into financial difficulties or gets himself for personal reasons, gets divorced, into these difficulties, and this person will be affected. You want to pull more money out of these people's pockets. Big real estate investors aren't gonna make a big deal out of it. That is why I am coming up with the amendment to maintain the tax test for five years and, at the same time, I am coming up with an amendment that responds to the change in the structure of ownership housing, because you are suggesting that the funds obtained from the sale of real estate can be included in the income tax next tax period after the sale, that is, one year and a bit. I suggest we extend it for another year, and that's because if this guy sells real estate, he wants to invest his own family house with it, so obviously it takes some time to get a warrant before he builds the house before he gets a housewarming, before it's registered in the cadastral. Therefore, the next amendment is an increase of one year, one tax period. I believe that some of the fans of the proposals that I am putting forward here will receive support because the real goal is to improve the housing market situation, which suffers from high prices, in order to increase the availability of housing for the middle class. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u7	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government. Let's keep going. This was a performance by Vojtěch Munzar, and given the fact that applications have been multiplied here in that moment, I will first read the apology of Petr Pávek, who apologizes from 14:00 to 17:00 for work reasons. The Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura shall act with priority, then duly logged in by colleagues Španěl and Kovářová and then registered by Mr Votava and Patrik Nacher, as the electronic application takes precedence. Now, then, Vice-President Okamura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD proposal to abolish property acquisition tax has been in the House for six months, and I am therefore glad that the government coalition has finally adopted it and we will abolish this immoral tax because the tax state has already taxed people once. Of course, the government modified our proposal in a very negative direction, as it also abolished citizens' ability to deduct interest on mortgages and building savings from the tax base. So for one tent as if it would save citizens money, that is the original proposal of the SPD to abolish the real estate tax, but at the same time the government added it, that is, the coalition of the ANO movement, the ČSSD with the support of the KSČM, that it will also pull the money out of the citizens with the second pocket by canceling their ability to deduct mortgage interest and building savings from the tax base. So we, as the SPD, have prepared an amendment that will be presented by our Member, Jan Hrnčíř, that this government sticker that they put in so that people can't deduct the interest, so we propose to cancel it and we just want to have the real estate tax abolished, so that people can continue to deduct the mortgage interest and the building savings from the tax base. I think that's the right proposal, that's the optimal and fair proposal we're promoting. Moreover, even from the built house, the state now demands payment of real estate tax. And if you sell it, the State will re-tax the sale, even though the buyer pays already taxed money. International treaties often prohibit mutual double taxation between states, citizens and tradesmen, however, pay taxes actually all the time. The total taxation of employees calculated for 2018 the Liberal Institute on Terrible, I would say thieving, 62,24 %. So nearly two thirds of the profits in the Czech Republic will be taken away from people. We know that for years, Prime Minister Babiš has promised not to raise taxes. That's what he's always said, but let's see how the Prime Minister's words and actions differ. The employees' tax burden in 2019 jumped up by 2% to 64,34 % in comparison with 2018. This means, once again, that in 2018, the overall taxation of employees was 62,24 %, but in 2019 it was 64.34 %. So, on the contrary, in this government, the tax burden on citizens is increasing, and it is increasing very strongly. The state of citizens, businessmen, and most companies choke, strangle, and vacuum. The state in the current concept of huge citizens' taxation is basically a parasite that does not realize that if it destroys its host, it will have no one to support it, and the level of taxation in the Czech Republic is already beyond the load limit. People don't have enough money left in their wallets. While employees and tradesmen pay as feeble, large companies take subsidies. Another demonstration of the monster system. I think most people don't even want subsidies. All it's gonna take is less splashing them when they lower the charges, not for three months, but forever. It's the state's businessmen and owners of companies and employees and others, but if we stay with the businessmen and owners of companies, they'll return the employees to higher salaries, and the employees will return it to the state on larger spending, from which there will be more tax collection. But the main effect is really in the greater satisfaction of the employees, because ultimately, their money is being taken by the state, several times. Social and health contributions are nothing more than other taxes, otherwise named taxes, and the employee has his or her pay-off burdened with taxes which he himself pays on income taxes, and taxes paid by the employer and, of course, taxes paid by the employer. If we say "state, lower our taxes," it is not a request for a gift, but it is a fully justified request, and especially at this time it is a very strongly justified request and I have no idea why the government and the government coalition are so deaf to it. And, of course, it would be good for the government to finally pour pure wine and, to be honest, the reasons why there is such a high tax on work in the Czech Republic, in fact, within the EU, I suspect even the second highest after France, and, at the same time, in those Western countries at lower taxation, there is a higher standard of living. Logically, the money is only one, so the money has to be somewhere. They're either looting, or they're relentless. And that's where the dog is buried! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u9	Thank you to Vice-President Tomie Okamur. Now, my colleague Lubomír Španěl in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u10	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, welcome, along with my colleagues from the SPD, the abolition of this absurd property acquisition tax. Once again, our novel has been in the House for six months. However, the government does not give this concession, i.e. cancellation of property acquisition tax, free of charge. The cancellation of the tax will be expensively redeemed by the cancellation of interest which could be deducted from the income tax base. Everyone is lashing out, or we are all lashing out by the need to support young families, who often undergo a huge Martyrium in order to get at least some housing mortgage. In the explanatory memorandum, the government states that it wants to unify the conditions for those who take credit for their housing with those who have their own cash, so if I translate it into Czech, among the rich and the less wealthy, who would simply need the help right now. Even some have promised or promised, as has been said on the Committee on Budgets, that we will simply come up with completely different bonuses for young families. Well, you know the saying, "Promise promises, fools rejoice." I don't see it for this century. I don't see it for this century. I am a co-president of the two amendments introduced by my colleague Jan Hrnčíř. I myself am the proposer of an amendment to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. The point is that I propose that the limit of exempt, tax-free income from occasional sales and other occasional income, which is currently 30 grand a year, should be increased to 40,000. It is mainly small production, breeding, small production of electricity and power plants on roofs and the like, small winemakers, sale of surpluses. The impact on the budget will be entirely marginal. I'd just like to say that today we're increasing people's cost of living in a jump, that hasn't been here for a long time, and hopefully it won't be for a long time. So I don't think anybody's gonna get rich on an occasional sale, and I'm asking for support. And as I said, I will apply to my amendment in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u11	I thank my colleague Španěl. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová in the general debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, of course we support the abolition of the property acquisition tax. This proposal can only be agreed with. I do not want to remind you that some of the comments on the parliamentary opposition proposals were that this property acquisition tax has been part of our legal system for decades and that it is not possible for it to leave this system, but only to the brink. What, however, cannot be agreed with - and this is the second part of the proposal - is the amendment to the Income Tax Act, where, in the event of the adoption of the proposed Act, the deduction of interest on loans granted for housing needs would be abolished. I think it's been said here a few times. We are proposing an amendment that cancels the cancellation of interest on loans precisely for this housing need, for several reasons. First, that part of people are taking a mortgage to buy an apartment, and I think that banks are counting in calculating income and deciding whether to provide mortgages or not, so it is these refunds that banks calculate interest on loans to the amounts of income of the applicant, and that is what I think is important. Then there's a little bit of a human plane. The moment the family acquires property, virtually. an apartment or a house owned, so of course it's a young family, usually with children, and at the same time at the beginning of his work career pays the highest part of interest, where, for example, out of the 15,000, there is 10,000 interest at the beginning, and only 5,000 is the principal, so of course there is a great help in the period when the family can find themselves in lower incomes, because one parent may remain on maternity leave. Then another reason is that if you buy a new building, this tax does not apply. And then the only advantage in quotation marks is the deduction of interest on loans, and that means that the argument that flats are going to get cheaper, so in the case of new buildings, it doesn't really affect the buyer, and it loses the deduction of interest. I would also like to conclude by saying that we would like this amendment to be passed - first of all. And two. I think that the question of the decline in property price, of course, may be for the buyer - the one who does not buy the new building - may be precisely the abolition of the property acquisition tax, but the problem I would say is that it is large in the territory of the Czech Republic and stems from the lack of rental housing. And I think that, hand in hand with the abolition of property acquisition tax, there should be a programme and a system of how the government will support rental housing mainly in regions and in Prague, because if there is a large offer or a higher offer of flats, then the market can, of course, react to it by falling prices. I will sign up for this amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. Now, Mr Vojtěch Munzar, Mr Václav Votava will prepare himself. Okay, that's in a detailed debate. In that case, my colleague Václav Votava. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would also like to comment, although I think I have already spoken about this at first reading, on this law, which therefore repeals the Senate's legal provisions. Maybe it wouldn't hurt. I'm sorry about the past. I'm sure you all still remember that there was a real estate transfer tax - 3% before that, then 4 percent. That's what I thought was quite logical, because if I'm selling something, some real estate, I'm making a certain income, and I'm paying a tax on that income. So then the property acquisition tax came in, when the buyer pays the tax in reverse, which I don't think is logical because I'm buying something, and I still have to pay the tax. So I have to have the resources prepared to pay the tax - unlike the person who sold the property back then, of course, he had the money from the sale, so it was easier for that. However, I will vote in favour of abolishing this tax, even if it is 13 billion. koruna, so it's not quite a minor cut in the state budget. The Minister intends to compensate for this by wanting to cancel or by proposing the abolition of the tax advantage, i.e. the possibility of deducting interest paid from the tax base, either from the mortgage or from the construction savings. And that's the rock of injury. I don't, I have to say, honestly, honestly, I don't like that. And in that sense, I also submit an amendment, as did colleagues before me, who spoke about it, because I believe that the possibility of deducting interest, interest paid on the loan granted, on the mortgage, or, therefore, on the construction savings, is substantial aid, housing aid. Whoever has a mortgage pays interest mainly - mainly - in the beginnings. And I think there's a lot of help. [[17.30 hours]] The Minister argues that the abolition of the tax deduction will compare the conditions between citizens who acquire their own housing. But friends, how many of these families are there that are able to get their own housing out of their own resources? There really are, unlike those who use a bank or a construction savings bank, so there are far, far less. Moreover, and it has also been said here - whoever buys the property first, that is, the first bribery acquisition of the property, the new building, for example from a developer or someone else, is no longer paying the property acquisition tax. And then we'll cancel his interest deduction. So I really see it as not helping to promote housing, support property housing. Yes, we should support rental housing. It's okay. But maybe in the beginning some of these young families can't reach the mortgage. We know what the problems are with getting a mortgage. What criteria - which I may also criticize - from the Czech National Bank, which wants to introduce them into legislation as a law designated. They just can't reach the mortgage. Yes, there's a place for rent. Let us therefore support rental housing. But in time, maybe these people will get to such an economic level that they will be able to get their own housing. And I also agree with the view, I think it was said by Mr Munzar that it was the ownership of the housing - and I say this as the former mayor - that ownership of the housing places people in a certain way on the village, the city. And that's a good thing. They're also taxpayers who stay in that city. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think it's really wrong to cancel this tax advantage, especially for young families. And I think it's a really strong, strong housing promotion. And we often talk - and I have to put in, even in the coalition - about housing support. But if we cancel this option, we're going the other way. That's not housing support anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u15	I thank Mr Václav Votav. Now Patrik Nacher, Tomáš Martínek will prepare. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, thank you. Madam Secretary, colleagues, colleagues, so I am consistently in favour of abolishing this tax, which was previously called property transfer tax, today's tax on the acquisition of immovable property. So much for basic information. And of course, we agree that the tax is immoral, that something that has already been taxed twice, three times, is taxing the price of the property. However, it is necessary to be consistent and realistic in this matter, and in general in taxes. These two things, consistent and realistic - I particularly look at my colleague, whom I otherwise appreciate, Vojtěch Munzar. Because we don't live in an ideal world. Of course, in an ideal world, we would all agree here that we could cancel all taxes, reduce them, and so on, with an overview. And I think there's some part of the House, probably not all of us, that we can agree on. However, we don't live in this world. We need to see the context of the situation as it is. I've been looking at the history of this tax. If I got it right, since 1992, the rate has been progressive between 4 and 20 percent. Since 1994, it has been 5 percent, it has been 5 percent. It was 3 percent in 2004. And now it's coming, that's where I'm going: in 2013 it went up from 3% by one percentage point to 4 percent. It has done so, so please have done nicely, within the framework of the package to consolidate public budgets as a response to the financial crisis. And now I'm getting to the core of the poodle. The financial crisis is now the biggest one that has not been caused by this government, nor by any other government, neighbouring countries, but by corona. This means that we are now in an undoubtedly worse situation than the year 2012, 2013. Despite that - I found it again - the basic rate of VAT increased by one percentage point, a solidarity premium was introduced on personal income tax for three years, the basic tax discount for retired workers was abolished and the health insurance ceiling was removed. Among other things. I'm not gonna read here so I don't delay everything. On the other hand, when the financial crisis is greater, we are facing a larger one, so the Minister and the Ministry of Finance are coming up with the abolition of this tax. In other words, if she were copying the 2013 situation and the recipe, the secretary here today would be proposing an increase in this tax from 4 to 5 percent. I wouldn't support it, as I was in favour of abolishing the real estate tax in that Senate version already, my colleague certainly knows that. But if we were to evaluate this continuously and consistently, the Minister should come up with an increase in the tax as a response to the financial crisis today. Just as many of these measures took place in 2013. And that's the basic context for me. Like I said, I'd like to cancel those taxes in an ideal world without any compensation. I have already voted in favour twice, I would have voted in favour for the third, fourth time. But the situation is different now, colleagues, colleagues and fellow Members. We're in a completely different situation right now. So either they pay the thesis - and I think the truth is somewhere in the middle, it's not black and white - that in the time of the financial crisis, before the financial crisis, taxes are increasing to collect funds, but then it has to always apply. Or they're decreasing. And I say here for the context of the situation that three or four tax rates increased in 2013, and now the Ministry of Finance and this government are coming up with the abolition of this tax, which coincides with coincidence - and I call this absurdity squared - just in 2013, it increased from 3% to four. So I'd just like to ask you, co-workers, colleagues - I'm glad the material's here - to see it in some context. Until now, we have voted on this before the coronavirus crisis, and now we are voting on it afterwards. That means, it changes the context of the Minister's reasoning, too, that yes, what one said in November can be true, so now he's saying something else. Well, because the situation is completely different. We're somewhere else today. And I think that's the ability or the possibilities that we have. And like I said, we're not in an ideal world. In an ideal world, the whole thing would be canceled without any compensation or anything like that. And I'm not talking about that - I'm going back to that at third reading - that the aim should be to simplify the tax system by the different exceptions, not complicate it. So a so brief account and a look into the past and a view of the context of the whole thing that she can't be evaluated in isolation, as I've sometimes heard here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u17	I thank Mr Patrik Nacher. Before I give my colleague Martínek the floor, I will ask for a recess because a colleague Vojtěch Munzar, who will respond to the previous speaker, came forward with a factual remark. And before I give him my word, I state my apology to the Prime Minister of the Chamber of Deputies. Jana Pastuchová apologizes from 17.30 for health reasons. Mr. Colleague, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u18	I have been indirectly called upon by my colleague Nacher through you. I like that every time you talk about the past, there's often a selective memory here. And the selective memory is that there hasn't been a year mentioned here, I think 2015, when it passed through the House, and since 2016, when the tax burden has been transferred from the seller to the buyer. At that time, the government, where it was part of the YES movement, said it didn't really matter, because the sellers are still counting the tax on the price, and that it would lead to a reduction in the price of real estate. That's what we can find in the reason messages and in the Stenoprotograms that it will affect the price, that suddenly, the tax, the buyer will pay it. And it didn't happen, there wasn't a spike, there wasn't a short-term spike, there wasn't any downside in those properties. So actually this step - this step has increased the price of real estate by 4 percent. I don't want to deal with the past here. We can talk about the past, about the tax rates, about the floods, about the fact that the VAT increase should only be temporary and actually extended because of pension reform, and we can talk about it further here. I don't want to deal with the past. I've never personally been a fan of property transfer tax. I am very glad that the real estate tax is abolished. But this is not a complete disturbance, it is an exchange of one-off tax burdens for many people for a continuous burden. Many people will pay for this by no longer being able to deduct mortgage interest. And that is why we propose that tax deductions on mortgage interest be maintained just as support for ownership housing as the only support the middle class has.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u19	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u20	And that's where they're different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u21	One more factual comment from my colleague Jan Volný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u22	Okay, colleague, I think Patrik Nacher explained it well, it had a head and a heel. I'm sure your procedure wasn't right back then. However, you're a little right that it's a quid pro quo. But we've been thinking -- you've been talking about it all along, Mr. President talking about it, we're talking about it -- we're gonna start canceling tax exemptions. And this is one of the tax exemptions that is possible just by canceling, canceling first, or we've already canceled more. But we said that we should go through the phase of abolishing tax exemptions, and this is one of those tax exemptions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. A colleague Patrik Nacher, another point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u24	Thank you for the floor. Actually, I forgot one more thing, and I was reminded by my performance by my colleague Munzar. The context is not only a time when I compared the times, I compared 2013 and this year on purpose, because we are talking about the financial crisis and the response to it. But he's the context of what position you're suggesting it from. I admit that you proposed it in 2015, 2016, but you always suggested it from the opposition position. But when you were in government and you had the chance to cut it down, you never did. This means that there is also the context of the fact that, of course - and that is not bad, it is simply logical that when someone is in opposition, they are more freaky and suggesting more adventurous things that they do not suggest when they are in government. Even this is the context, please, of the position and role in which this person is sitting at that moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u25	Thank you. My colleague Martínek has yet to wait, because here I have other factual points. I will read their order - colleague Vojtěch Munzar, Lubomír Španěl, Věra Kovářová, all with a factual remark. So now Vojtěch Munzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u26	Okay, I'm not gonna drag this out anymore. I'm not doing this anymore. To my colleague, Nacher, by your means. It's nice to hear. I know that you, Mr President, have always supported our proposals to abolish the real estate tax. We're putting it here, I said the data here at first reading, just in this parliamentary term, how many times we've proposed a cancellation. We have always heard the Minister's dissenting position here, we have always heard and seen the dissenting position by voting your colleagues. That is why I do not want to go into the past because I am glad that the Minister has changed his mind that she has heard our arguments and hopefully we will finally get to abolish the real estate tax. I'm just sorry it always has to be complicated by some additional conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u27	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Lubomír Španěl, then Mrs Kovářová - on factual remarks. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Free through Mr President, I have to respond to you because I am the real enemy of tax exemptions, really, of tax exemptions. But deduction of interest on mortgages and construction savings is not a tax exemption. [[Speech of disapproval.]] But it's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u29	Thank you. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová, with a point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u30	Thank you. I would like to respond to Mr Nacher through Mr President. You might be right about what you said, who's putting it, under what circumstances, if we hadn't heard any reservations about opposition proposals before. The first reservation to abolish the real estate tax was that it was part of a fixed part of our tax system for decades and it was not possible to allocate it. The second reason was that the Minister did not want to abolish this tax because it is budgetaryly responsible. So these were the reasons that we mentioned here - and suddenly the abolition of the tax goes. So just to tell each other what's fair. And if we're referring to what has ever been mentioned here, I don't want to say for King Klacek, but sometimes who knows when, we can compare what is often argued here, by the deficit of the state budget, as it was terrible for the Minister of Finance Kalousek, as was the high state budget, sorry, the deficit of the state budget of 190 billion, and that it was, as always, a drama that Kalousek was terrible. You see, we have a $500 billion deficit here, and we don't define ourselves. And we could say where the budgetary responsibility is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Finally, Mr Tomáš Martínek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u32	Thank you. I want to believe that the government has a plan now that we're actually losing tax revenue quite high here, how we're actually going to get out of this crisis, if we're going to be in debt here this year, or if we're going to be in debt by 500 billion, that is, uh, CZK 50,000 for every citizen including infants, and it's going to go on for another seven years, so how do we get out of this? I hope the government coalition has thought this through. I would like to remind you that, since 2018, the House press 293 has been waiting for discussion, which has actually dealt with the same issue, brought a discount on the acquisition of ownership housing for the family up to CZK 240,000, which would de facto mean that the vast majority of buyers buying their own housing would not pay the tax and would be abolished for them. It would have significantly lower impact on the state budget and, for example, would also allow the maintenance of the other tax discounts that are there. In any case, I would like to say that here I am proposing an amendment which responds to the ongoing problematic situation of the availability of ownership housing in the Czech Republic. Due to the high demand for flats and the low supply of vacant flats, it is still difficult for a large number of residents to buy their own housing. The funds spent on the purchase of real estate to secure property housing are then increased by the tax on the acquisition of real estate. I therefore propose that all natural persons who are citizens of the Czech Republic, the European Union and the European Economic Area be exempt from this tax. I believe that it is necessary to support natural persons who acquire their own housing, on the contrary, legal persons who do not acquire real estate in order to satisfy housing needs, as would the citizens of third countries, would continue to pay tax on the acquisition of real estate by the State. Lawyers still have the possibility to count all mortgage credit costs into the company's costs. On the contrary, natural persons are to be deprived of this advantage according to the government's proposal. The different rates of property acquisition tax for natural and legal persons also apply in other Member States of the European Union, such as Sweden or Great Britain. Czech citizens are taxpayers of many taxes that they contribute to the state budget, similarly the citizens of the European Union through their state budgets contribute to the budget of the European Union, from which the Czech Republic benefits. This amendment will reduce the negative effects of the original government proposal on the state budget and will benefit Czech citizens in particular. Freed natural persons would no longer have to submit tax returns on the acquisition of immovable property. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u33	Thank you. Mr Radek Koten, Mr Marian Jurečka, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u34	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. When I listen to the debate here, of course, there are absolutely substantive arguments falling and good ideas falling as far as the amendments are concerned. I'd just like to sum up here that in the past, the state has actually acted as such the extortion administrator. So people who wanted to buy or sell real estate were forced to pay for such a clearing state, and they also had to borrow, for example, a mortgage. The fact that the basic proposal envisages the removal of the mortgage deduction is very bad and it is good that so many amendments have been made here to maintain these deductions. So let us hope that common sense prevails and we will finally stop collecting firearms from our citizens who intend to live in their own and who would only like to take the sums so that they do not have to pay another amount of the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Marian Jurečka in a proper application, so far the last one entered into the general debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u36	Thank you. I would like to draw your attention to several amendments to this press, whose aim is to increase housing availability, reduce housing costs and, in fact, help to move the real estate market in a way. In fact, I have practically the same goals as this press, which has arrived at us, as well as the arguments we hear from the government, the government coalition and the secretary. In fact, in my first amendment, I propose that we reduce the value added tax for so-called social housing, apartments up to 120 square meters and family houses to 350 square meters. These are relatively common properties, where the vast majority of ordinary people live, and I would therefore like to suggest that we make a reduction in the first option in order to reduce the rate to 15 per cent and 10 per cent. This proposal is in line with European law, so there is no problem with us rejecting this because of reference to the European directive and the like. So I would very much like to consider how to make housing available to our citizens. Then there is a second proposal aimed at abolishing and thus exempting the obligation to pay VAT when buying new flats for natural persons. Today is a paradoxical situation where if we buy such an apartment as a legal person, as a VAT payer, I will deduct VAT, the state will return it to me. If I buy it as a physical person, I'll pay for it. I am aware that this proposal is at this point in time contrary to European law. That is why I am here to propose a transitional provision for this efficiency to be from 2023, so that there is time for the Ministry of Finance to negotiate this exception. I don't think there's gonna be such a dramatic problem in the negotiations. Again it would be aid in the order of hundreds of thousands, which would make housing available to ordinary citizens, natural persons, and would, of course, also help to move the housing market, and in this situation it would also have an indirect positive effect on the construction sector and the construction of new flats. Then I have a proposal that concerns what has been discussed here, and that is that when we talk here about the ambition to increase housing support, so that it doesn't make it a system that the wolf eats, but the goat stays whole. This means that, while the real estate transfer tax will be abolished, the interest on mortgages will be deducted from the tax base at the same time. I'll repeat what I said here in the past twice at the House meeting. Let us remember that for many families and owners who go on the way to buy the older property and the property will be repaired and the mortgage they will take, for a large part, will be used to invest in this real estate repair, so these people will be punished by this proposal. Because these people often take mortgages for a longer period of time, at a higher interest rate, and they will no longer have more housing support at this point by forgiving the real estate transfer tax, but they will be affected by not taking out the interest on the mortgage. So I would really like to put in a good word for it, it's an amendment, which is here in various variations, please nicely, if we want to talk about wanting more housing support, great, I applaud it, let's cancel the real estate transfer tax, but let's keep the possibility of discounting interest on mortgages from the tax base. It gives me a pretty big and clear logic. [[Noise in the courtroom.]] Then I have a proposal here, which is actually trying to cancel the idea of cutting interest on mortgages from the tax base at least by 2023 as a compromise, so that there may still be time after the next elections to do something about it. And then here's a proposal that concerns a pretty absurd situation that I would like to draw attention to. I don't know if the Ministry is aware of this, but the government proposal allows for income tax exemption in case of the use of funds obtained by selling the property to procure its own housing needs. The transitional provision allows such a possibility only for the sale of real estate acquired after the law is effective. This arrangement is quite unfair. It creates two groups of owners that will exist next to each other. Persons who purchase the property before the law becomes effective, even one day in advance, will not be able to sell it for five years without paying the tax. Persons who acquire it at any time thereafter will be fully exempt from that tax. And they can actually create absurd situations where someone will own a property for example one month, sell it and tax it will be exempt, and someone else who owns the property at the same time for four years will not be exempt from the tax on its sale. This probably unintended effect of the law can have a very negative impact on the real estate market in the form of several years of price distortion, and by the end of 2020. This may result in a higher incidence of circumvention practices by means of a transfer through the assets of special purpose corporations. I beg your pardon -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u37	Mr President, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for peace. If you are discussing anything other than the House Press 866, please be in the foyer. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u38	Thank you. I'm gonna go. I would like to draw real attention to this amendment. In fact, this amendment addresses the situation in such a way that it equals it that real estate sales will be exempt from tax even before this law becomes effective if the funds obtained are intended for other housing needs. So please let us remember what we would do with this double-track, and consider support for this amendment as well. I will then sign up for the individual amendments and their numbers in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u39	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka. Before I give the floor to my colleague Jan Skopečka, who came forward in the general debate, I state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, from Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová to the end of the day. Now colleague Jan Skopeček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u40	Thank you for the floor. I will also introduce a few amendments. However, in general, we are very pleased that this proposal lies here and that there is finally a chance to cancel the real estate tax. You know well that the Civil Democrats have presented this proposal and have proposed it repeatedly in this Chamber of Deputies on various occasions. Unfortunately, we have always heard a negative opinion from the Minister. There is also a government justification for these legislative proposals, when the government wrote in its opinion that abolishing the real estate acquisition tax is a non-systemicity, unnecessaryness, stupidity and the like. [[18.00 hours]] So today, even if it's late, we do. It's a good thing, because I find the tax very unfair. We must realise that this tax is a multiple taxation of the same thing, of the same person, of the same income. The guy who wants to get a place to live has to earn his living first. It is taxed on income tax, then it begins to build, or buys a finished property, it pays VAT. Then the property tax paid to the municipalities, and this fourth tax was really there as a multiple taxation of one subject matter. So in that sense, I welcome it. Unfortunately, it wouldn't be the YES movement that leaves the money in one pocket to the taxpayer, but it wants to pull it out of the other person's pocket by abolishing tax deductions, depreciation. I think that's a very bad step, for several reasons. Especially at the time of the crisis, when the real estate market, as we can see, is not well, was not well even before the coronation itself. And let us be aware that the Czech National Bank has also stepped up to a rather stricter regulation of mortgage provision through recommendations to commercial banks, preventing them from providing 100% of their mortgages to those to whom banks are obliged to lend. There is a limitation as to the value of the loan to the property price, to the income of the person asking for it, to its total debt. After all, the Czech National Bank wants to include this in the law, so that it is the legal possibility of such regulation, I think that the third point in our negotiations concerns this issue. And at such a time when the state or state institution, the Czech National Bank, is actually taking place that the market is more regulated, the prices of real estate in some, especially larger cities were huge and, in general, the problem is especially for the younger generation or those who buy the first apartment, actually getting the property from the point of view of its high price, so in this case canceling something that was certain to help those who wanted to get their own housing, namely canceling the possibility to deduct mortgage interest, is a thing that certainly doesn't help people getting their own housing. And I think that if people get their own housing, even if it's on debt, then if it's a rational decision and those people have a chance to pay off the mortgage, then maybe it's one of the smartest ways to get into debt. We often wonder, or we see very sad cases where people are indebted to Christmas gifts, when people are indebted to vacations and things like that, but if they are indebted to buying real estate and they become owners and start caring for their own property, I think it has some higher social positive effect. In this sense, I really don't understand why at this point, at a time when one really can't afford to buy housing mostly differently than through a mortgage loan, why the government wants to throw sticks at these people who want to take care of themselves, who are responsible and get their own housing. So I will also vote very much in favour of any - and there are several proposals put in the system that they are returning, or they want to remove from the government's proposal precisely so that people can continue to tax-deduct interest - so I will vote in favour of every amendment that will, of course, preserve this possibility. I hope there is a majority in the Chamber of Deputies. Because it's really helping these people. And if, on the one hand, we cancel the real estate tax, but on the other hand, we cancel the deductions, so nothing happens, and we don't move the market too much, and we certainly don't increase the possibility of getting housing for young people, middle class in particular, but we make it difficult for them. Since the proposal to maintain the possibility of deduction of interest on mortgages, because a number of colleagues from a number of political clubs tabled the amendment, I did not, of course, repeat myself in this regard, it did not make sense. I have tabled three other amendments which, in my view, improve the government's form of the law. It is, on the one hand, an amendment uniting the deadline for the transitional period with the proposed increase in the tax test for the sale of real estate. The second amendment deals with the fact that it aims to reduce the tax test deadline for the exemption of income from real estate sales to seven years compared to a government proposal extending it to ten years, so I am changing it to seven. There are also amendments by colleagues, perhaps a colleague, Munzar, has proposed five years, seven years is a kind of compromise. But an increase to ten years will, of course, also cause problems in the real estate market rather than revive it in some way. Finally, the third amendment to which I will sign up in a detailed debate is an amendment aimed at the remission of the taxpayer's income tax, which will use part of the funds obtained from the sale of the property to purchase further housing. Because, as I say, when you get a place to live, whether on a mortgage loan or on your own savings, I think it's a positive thing and it has a greater social effect. Because everyone who owns and cares for their property cultivates it, so of course it has some - economic words - positive externalities towards the whole society. So thank you very much for your attention, and I ask you very much not to disturb the tax on the one hand, and therefore leave money in one pocket to people, but they took it from the other pocket by canceling the mortgage deduction option. If we want to help people, if we want to make housing more accessible to them and if we want to move the mortgage market, let us cancel the tax without any further conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u41	I thank Mr Jan Skopečka. That was the last one entered into the debate. I'm looking to see if anyone else from the scene is reporting, I don't see anybody, I'm done with the debate. I ask if there is interest in the final words after the general debate. Yes, Madam Vice-President of the Government, Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u42	Thanks for the word, I won't talk long. I'm gonna follow up on Mr. Skopeček right now, because it's still resonating with me, his words. Two and a half years here, or two and a quarter since I've been a secretary, or two and five months, or six, or actually two and a half, so I hear from you how complicated the tax system is. He's a mess. How inconspicuous he is. And with any exception, I'm gonna come in and propose a cancellation, so it's bad. And first you call for it: it can't, and therefore, and it doesn't matter that it's now canceling credit deduction or anything else. So we just have to tell each other what we want. You obviously are not clear about this, with all due respect, because it has not yet happened to me that you have come up with any exception, with a proposal to abolish some exception when you call all the time - and today we had a debate again on the Committee on Budgets and we will have next week, and I will again hear how complex the tax system is, but you simply do not support any exceptions proposed for cancellation. There is one to cancel the loan, the cancellation of allowing interest on the loan. We set it up to cover the contracts that will be concluded after 1 January 2022, which means all the old contracts, maybe 30 years, will run out. And actually, it's going to apply, I get questions often, refinancing, so, of course, they're all going to get away with it. And it's not quite, it's a classic tax exemption. Someone said no. It's a classic tax exemption. And everyone can't reach it. When parents give money to children or lend it or give it to them, they simply have no deductions. And if you look, the fact that we're gonna cancel the acquisition tax - and I'm not gonna repeat what I said at first reading, we're gonna say it maybe at the third time - is the difference when we're in a severe crisis, and we're gonna try to make it one of the anti-crisis measures. [[18.10 hours]] Basically, these people are gonna get who's paying today, and somebody here said that, that tax. Only natural persons. Lawyers will figure it out by transferring a business share, they just can't do it, they'll go around. We've dealt with this many times in the past, and there's no recipe for it that's consistent with the Constitution. At one time, developers lobbied that this tax was not paid on new buildings, so it is actually paid by a citizen who buys, second, third - another tax. I know, you remind me of my statements from when I was always arguing against it, and those reasons were primarily fiscal, because it's 13 billion. Today we are in a situation where we must help, we must give liquidity to citizens, companies, and this is one of the ways. The time test - I don't really understand it anymore. What's wrong with the time test? It's just that there was a five-year time test here once. And we have, without criticizing anyone, cases where someone has dozens and hundreds of apartments. And it's due to the fact that, of course, if he's a resident there, I'm responding to what any of you said when a married couple gets divorced and they're forced to sell the property and they have a permanent residence there, so the time test is two years, which we keep there. If someone has permanent housing there, we don't fight permanent housing at all, so we simply retain the advantage that after two years, when they sell it, it is, of course, freed. If he sold the property and invested in new housing, of course, too. We're just stretching out the time test for other investment apartments. Why not ten years? Why? On the contrary, we believe that this is simply a measure that can lead, on the contrary, to the fact that apartments that are now in the hands of investors, investment apartments can be placed on the market and can be acquired by citizens who need to secure ownership housing. So I'm not taking the divorce argument and these things, and I think it's a very good measure. And I see no reason why seven years. Why? Let's put ten in there. I even proposed fifteen, but the truth is there was some debate going on with the government and we agreed on ten. And again, to start with a clean slate, it only applies to the properties that will be taken after 1 January 2021, so everyone will arrive to have a clear cut. So I think that's a fair measure. And I think everything else has happened in some way again, so I'm not gonna react anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u43	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur if he is interested in the final word after the general debate. Yes. I cannot accept the factual point, we are not in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u44	Good evening. I just have a technical matter. Firstly, a motion to dismiss the law has not yet been filed. And second, 11 people came out, several of them repeatedly. In essence, the discussion, as stated here, focused on maintaining the possibility of applying a deduction from interest on newly concluded housing loan agreements. That was the first group. And the second group went towards an extension or a change in the time test for income from the sale of real estate, which is shifted from five to ten years in the law. There were all sorts of suggestions. Thirdly, it was actually about reducing VAT in the case of social housing, and that is the third group of amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u45	Thank you to the rapporteur. I note that there was no proposal that we could vote on after the general debate. Before I open the debate in detail, I state the apology of my colleague Jan Pošvář from 18 o'clock until the end of the meeting day. I am now opening the debate in detail. Mr. Marian Jurečka, with priority rights, applies to her. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u46	Thank you. I'm gonna try to be very brief, but I'm just commenting on one thing. There's talk here that tax exemptions are like a hundred percent always wrong, and that's why they need to be eradicated. I do not agree with this because, for example, in the area of tax exemptions and tax reductions that we apply here to the taxpayer, husband, wife, children, I think that these are absolutely the right exceptions to which we fill, say, some support for a part of the population, in this case families, parents, birth rates, and compensate parents for certain clear costs associated with raising children. That makes sense. I can't say that every tax exemption is wrong. The same is true in this case. I think that this tax exemption simply supports very well systemically long-term housing especially for medium- and low-income people. And I would very much like the Minister here to make it clear if, for those common cases that we are experiencing, especially in the countryside, where young people buy property for a sum of up to CZK 2 million, but they need another CZK 2 million to reconstruct the property, so they have a mortgage of CZK 4 million, and I am not discussing the issue of participation in this particular example, so tell me if, in the mortgage for 25, 30 years, these people will be better off by abolishing the real estate transfer tax than they are today. They won't. And I'm gonna ask you to give me the specific examples, because I have the examples that I've calculated, and it's not going to work out better. Moreover, it is important to note that most of these clients are less creditworthy and have higher interest rates on mortgages. Please, let's not look at the part of the mortgage market, or the real estate market that buys real estate in cash, they're rich people, they don't solve any mortgages, it'll help them, of course, but we'll punish people who are in the country, low- and medium-income families. In a detailed debate, I therefore subscribe to the amendments. The first concerns a VAT reduction of 10 per cent, it is House document 5314. It then concerns VAT on the abolition of flats, House document 5315. Then it concerns the maintenance of the interest deduction, 5316. Then this concerns the cancellation of interest deduction only in 2023 and this is House document 5317. And then it's an exemption for housing needs backwards and it's House document 5714. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u47	Thank you. Colleague Skopeček is also reporting with priority rights for the absent President of the ODS in a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u48	Thank you very much. I took advantage of the priority rights, which I don't usually do in order to respond to the Finance Minister's final words. She always likes to report in the final word so that no one can respond to it, to the half-truths, to the attempt to distort reality. Well, at least now in a detailed debate. The Minister says how we blame her for the complex tax system in the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, there is a complex tax system. I have always been fair in adding that this is the sin of a number of previous governments, but this government has not made a positive contribution to this, or has not changed it. By contrast, the tax system continues to complicate and, according to all international comparisons, it is a parameter that reduces our competitiveness. In the rankings compiled by the World Bank, Doing Business, it's a thing that's moving us down. The Ministry of Finance has been managing the ANO movement for many years, and it had the power to prepare a systemic change, to proceed systematically to various exceptions to the tax system, and to do nothing. Whatever the period of economic growth, good weather, when the government's majority had a comfortable government majority, and some systemic tax change was nothing. It wasn't happening. [[18.20 hours]] Andrej Babiš here promised a new Income Tax Act, Madam Secretary promised a new Income Tax Act. Where, Madam Secretary, is the law? Where is he? We've heard of him for years. Mr. Finance Minister Babiš said at the time that he would only hand it over to you to present it here. That's where you guys could've gone about the exceptions. You didn't do anything about it! And now, the moment you want to pay back or cancel the property acquisition tax, you suddenly remembered the exceptions. And you remember the kind where you want to take her away from people who get a place to live. Well, that's a really nice approach to exceptions! You leave all the other exceptions there, and those that are supposed to help the middle class and the people who get their housing, you're gonna cancel it! Is that a normal approach? This? To a swamped tax system where there are hundreds of exceptions... That we cancel the one that complicates people's access to housing? It's really delicious! I report to Amendment 5723, 5724 and 5722. I introduced them and explained them in the general debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u49	Thank you, my colleague Skopečka. And now, in the order that they are entered in the detailed debate - Mr Dominik Feri, Mr Blaha will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I also think that this should be the abolition of the property acquisition tax without further consideration, and I have therefore tabled amendments concerning the maintenance of mortgage interest and the maintenance of the current form of the time test. [[deduction]] I report to House documents number 5362 and 5457. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u51	Thank you. Now, Mr Blaha. Mr. Španěl will be ready. I don't think my colleague Blaha is here. Let's skip it. And a colleague of Španěl. A colleague of the Hrnčíř will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u52	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Okay, Madam Secretary, so you almost talked me into a tax exemption. I'd call it a tax bonus. And then, as my colleague Hrnčíř will represent our amendments, you will see how we imagine it, because there are different possibilities for us to really help families with children. And now for my amendment, which is registered under number 5453. And, as I said in the general debate, it is an increase in the tax-free item from occasional sales from 30,000 annual volumes to 40,000. I'm asking for support because I don't think the state budget is really gonna put this down and that no one's gonna get any money out of casual sales either. So I think it's possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u53	I thank Mr Španěl. Now, Mr. Hrnčíř. Mrs Kovářová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In short, I would say that we support the abolition of property tax or the acquisition of real estate. It's our proposal, it's been here since November. However, we do not agree that the possibility of deduction of interest on mortgages should be abolished at the same time, because we consider this to be primarily support for young families in the acquisition of their own housing. That means I would like to sign up here for the amendments. The amendment under number 5451 essentially repeals the cancellation of the deduction. If this did not pass, we still have an amendment under number 5450, which reduces the current limit of CZK 300,000 to CZK 100 000 per year for the application of interest deduction. So I would ask for the support of our amendments. I still have an amendment under number 5303, which relates essentially to the payment of compensation and State aid to public limited companies, which will decide de facto this year and next year to pay dividends abroad, that they would lose their entitlement to any compensation from the state budget. Thank you for supporting our amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u55	I thank my colleague Hrnčíř. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová. Mr. Vojtěch Munzar will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u56	I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is under House document 5720 and concerns the abolition of the proposal to cancel the deduction of interest on the loan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u57	Thank you. I will ask the House for peace of mind to give us a chance to at least write the amendments. Now a colleague of Vojtěch Munzar. Václav Votava will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I have already easily justified all the amendments in the general debate, while, of course, they are recorded in the system and there is a justification, so I would like to sign up for seven of my amendments. You can find these under number 5685, 5686, 5687, 5688, 5689, 5691, 5692. And since my colleague Stanislav Blaha is not here, he asked me to apply to his amendments, which you will find in the system under 5727 and 5728. They are also duly justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u59	I thank Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Mr Václav Votava now. Tomáš Martínek will be ready. I will ask the House again for peace. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u60	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I am more modest than Mr Munzar on the number of amendments. I have only one amendment, but I think it is significant. He's in the system under number 5698. This is how I apply to him. This is a possibility of keeping interest on loans, as it resonates here all afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u61	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Martínek now. And that would be the last one entered into a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u62	Thank you. First of all, about the debate that has taken place here on tax exemptions, I would remind you that if the proposal had been passed in the Government's text, the possibility of deducting interest on which the government proposal is deprived of natural persons could continue to be applied by legal persons, so there would actually be an advantage for legal persons who, from my point of view, need it less than those natural persons who could exercise that deduction. Legal persons could continue to charge all related credit accessories. Personally, I am also in favour of abolishing some tax exemptions, for example, with my colleague Nacher over there, I submit to abolishing the tax exemption on investment life insurance and the like. I would like to sign up for this amendment, which I justified in the general debate, House document 5719, which would partly address what I mentioned here on the tax advantage for legal persons, and this is an exemption of individuals from the tax on the acquisition of immovable property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-006-387.u63	Thank you. We have therefore exhausted the detailed debate given that Mr Vojtěch Munzar has signed up to the amendment by Mr Blaha. So I'm asking if anyone is reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I ask if there is interest after a detailed debate on the final words. Madam Secretary is not interested. The rapporteur is not interested. There was no proposal that we would vote on at second reading or the proposal to return, which is why I can end the second reading of print 866, paragraph 387. Thank you, Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. We will continue with item number 17 under today's decision of the Chamber of Deputies on the agenda. And point number 17 is
