ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-004-019.u1	19. Proposal by Members Adam Kalous, Pavel Kováčik, Jan Volný, Jan Pošvář, Zdeněk Podal, Antonín Staněk, Jana Krutáková and others for the law on the promotion of gardening activities (garden law) /house print 634/ - second reading We can deal with this proposal. I would ask that either Mr Adam Kalous or any other of the appellants present the proposal. Yes, for the plaintiff, Mr Antonín Staněk will present this bill, and I would therefore ask Mr Staněk to take it. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-004-019.u2	Thank you, Mr President, and let me only inform the Chamber of Deputies that we are in the second reading of the law of gardening, during which some amendments were tabled and dealt with this and the relevant guarantee committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-004-019.u3	Yes, thank you. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the agricultural committee as a guarantee committee. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development has also been ordered. We have a committee resolution at our disposal; it is House prints 634/2 to 5. The rapporteur for the agricultural committee was Mrs Monika Oborná, who I am now giving the floor. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-004-019.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you the resolution of the agricultural committee of the 34th meeting of 15 April. "Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening words of the representative of the group of petitioners and my intelligence report 1. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve press 634 as amended by the amendments adopted - which I will then return to; 2. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to cooperate with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, or. It also proposed other necessary adjustments pursuant to § 95 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies; 3. Instructs the rapporteur to familiarise the House of Deputies with this resolution; 4. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic." As far as the amendments are concerned, several have been tabled. The amendments can be found in the system in print 634. I'm really just very brief. It is among them, for example. the definition of gardening activity as a public service activity, and these amendments also define the period for a fixed period of at least two years and then ten years. They also specify the six-month notice period for the scent and basically other specifying matters. As I say, you will find the amendments in this press in the system under number 634. So for me, it's like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-004-019.u5	I wish you a nice noon and now please the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Jiří Dolejš, to take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Mr. Dolejš isn't here, so I'm gonna ask someone on the committee. Yes, I'll give it to you. Please. Mrs. Kovářová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-004-019.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development of the 37th meeting on this proposal. "The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 37th meeting following the reasoning of the draft by Mr Ing. Adam Kalous, following Mr Ing's intelligence report. Jiří Dolejš and following the debate adopted a resolution 1. Recommends the Chamber of Deputies to discuss and approve 634/0 in the submitted text; 2. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the resolution; 3. Instructs the President of the Committee to send the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-004-019.u7	I am now opening a general debate in which I have a single Member, and she is Mrs Monika Jarošová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-004-019.u8	Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I am very glad that we can finally discuss the gardening law that we need very much. And I'd start by saying why we need garden law. Gardening activities have a long tradition in the Czech Republic. By the 19th century it was part of normal life and legal regulation was not needed. With the increase in urban population, there was a need to bring together experts in the field of gardening and thus various associations were formed. Their goal was to allow gardeners access to the cultivation of scarce vegetables and fruit. Today we usually have other reasons for gardening, especially recreational. Čech are a nation of gardeners and huts, and we know why, what it brings us. There's nothing like the feeling when we grow something ourselves or when we get rid of the panel and we enhance our garden or cabin. I know it very well myself. The Czech Garden Association currently brings together some 135 thousand gardeners and this activity is also performed by non-members of the Czech Garden Association, either individuals or any other legal form, associations, municipal community gardens, school gardens or courtyards inside the building. Lately, gardening in cities, often in places that are unmaintained, devastated, has become widespread, when it will actually revitalize them. It is a means of maintaining access to nature and, at the same time, growing crops where I can be sure of their origin and have the opportunity to reconnect with nature. It is also necessary to stress the educational function of urban gardening, which leads to environmental education and education for future generations, which will then take this as a logical part of the city. Another important element of gardening is the improvement of the ecosystem. The creation and active maintenance of gardens serves a large number of animals. But also the protection of the agricultural soil fund, even by fertilizing less quality soils. The function of water sustainability in the landscape is also important, and the role of gardens in temperature regulation is also positive. This is especially true in summer, when hot cities can be partially cooled by covered areas. It is therefore also very important to place gardens for gardening purposes in city and village plans. The main feature of gardening is its public benefit. And although it has a long tradition and social significance in our country, it is currently not explicitly regulated in any separate legislation, unlike other European countries. The aim of this amendment is therefore to adjust the position and public benefit of the garden movement in the legal order of the Czech Republic and to define it as a publicly beneficial activity. The existence of this law has been in vain for gardeners since 2001, i.e. almost 20 years. I firmly believe that this time it will finally succeed. The SPD movement will definitely support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-004-019.u9	Yes. I now have Mrs Věra Kovářová in the general debate and subsequently the plaintiff Adam Kalous is reporting. Please, madam. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-004-019.u10	Thank you for the floor. If I'm to paraphrase the Prime Minister's words that the opposition only does covid while he wants gardens, I'm glad that finally this law, second reading came up. And I think it's also thanks to Mrs Jarošová. I would like to present the amendment to the Club of Mayors and Independents, the main architect of which is Mrs Jana Krutáková, and then, in a detailed debate, I will justify this amendment and apply to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-004-019.u11	I am now going to ask Mr Adam Kalous to speak, and then Mr Staněk will speak. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-004-019.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. As a translator of this law, I am very pleased that we are finally getting to second reading for three quarters of a year. I'm here to discuss it at the beginning, virtually. At first reading, he said three words that I think describe gardening activity, and these are the words of tradition, massity, utility. This means that these three words really describe the substance, and this also shows that we have submitted a law on gardening activities with colleagues, as colleague Jarošová has already said here through Mr President, it is the fourth effort to adopt this standard, and we really need to anchor the foundations of gardening activities in a separate law. I'm convinced of that. So far, no legislation has been adopted to address this issue, although it is necessary to take account of the historical development of gardening in the Czech Republic and its benefits. I think that the fact that gardening is going to become a community service is really necessary, and that is one of the foundations of the bill. Furthermore, this law defines what gardening activity is. Today, many can imagine, we can talk about it, but it really isn't, and I think it's very important. There'll be more of these definitions, for example, to define a garden settlement. That's also important. The law also deals with the possibility of the State Land Office and the municipality to leave a plot of land on which gardening activities would subsequently be developed. Furthermore, there are modifications to the specific requirements of the contract on the swamp or lease of land intended for gardening activities. Furthermore, I would like to add that the gardening activity is not only carried out by members of the Czech Gardening Union, which, by the way, is over 150 thousand, but especially in the last decade, various initiatives have been created, especially in larger cities, which aim to re-cultivate the original industrial areas or areas of emerging or indigenous interiors. The new law also remembers these gardeners and offers them the same regime as members of the Czech Gardening Union. The proposal was discussed by the House's agricultural committee at its 34th meeting. There was also a round table with all stakeholders about three quarters of a year ago, and I think we have reached a compromise. As far as the amendments are concerned, I think they are in line, they are fine with the overall concept of this law and can therefore be agreed with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-004-019.u13	Mr Antonín Staněk will now appear, so far the last application for the general debate. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-004-019.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary, Ministers, allow me to briefly introduce you to the opinion of the Czech Social Democratic Parliamentary Club, for which I am, among other things, co-chair of this law. As my previous speakers said, gardeners are one of the strongest social organizations, but they did not have legal anchors. I think that the presentation of this bill and the fact that it is gradually entering the next phase of the legislative process are very positive. Gardeners and all who elevate and care for land, which is very often in large agglomerations, do not only beneficial activities, but really contribute significantly to the cultivation of the urban environment. That is why the Czech Party of the Social Democratic and Parliamentary Club supports the adoption of this law, and at the same time, as has already been said, we will also support the amendments that further refine and regulate the law. I am glad that the opposition also supports this law, although some opposition parties initially expressed that it is a legislative paskvil, but it is a good thing that instead of rejecting it at first reading, it has moved forward and we are trying to adapt it legislatively so as to make it passable. So once again, we fully support this law for our club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-004-019.u15	There. I will look around to see if I still have any interest in speaking in the general debate. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. The plaintiff, Mr Adam Kalous? [[No.]] Ms. Newsletter Monika Oborná? [[No.]] Mr Jiří Dolejš - final word. You've already spoken, but you have that option. [[He doesn't want to get out.]] So I'm initiating a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified, and Mr Leo Luzar came forward first. Please take your word for it, and Mrs Věra Kovářová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-004-019.u16	Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, let me represent my sick colleague, Pavel Kováčik, who is one of the holders of this bill and who, as you all know, is very intensively involved in the work of protecting the agricultural soil fund, gardeners and all areas relating to agriculture. His proposal, which is conducted in the system under number 5524, contains fundamental amendments to Sections 2, 3 and 4 of the proposed law. I think that during the second reading of the Committee on Agriculture it will already be able to take part in this discussion, I firmly believe it, I wish it to him because it is one of his large working materials to which he deals, and the relationship of his personally and, of course, KSČM to the field of leisure activities and in the field of gardening is generally known and highly praised. I can say that we are trying to support this activity in this area, whether at municipal level or at parliamentary level. There are few human activities that interfere so far with the relationship between man and nature, such as gardening, perhaps hunting and other matters related to nature, yet gardeners as such form a comprehensive and clear society that operates on defined, limited spaces. This law should make it more transparent and clear the conditions in which they can continue to function, and I think it is in the interest of all of us to continue to function. The clarification or justification of this proposal by Pavel Kováčik is part of the material that is in the system, therefore I will not delay too much, and once again I stress, I sign up for Mr Pavel Kováčik on the proposal 5524. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-004-019.u17	Mrs Věra Kovářová will now come forward, so far the last application for a detailed debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-004-019.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, let me present to you in more detail Mrs Jana Krutáková's amendment. The bill aims to legally anchor the gardening activity, which has a long tradition in the Czech Republic, to adjust the position and utility of the gardening movement and to help create conditions for the operation and development of this activity. Paragraph 7 (a) shall apply. 2 of the draft law defines the scope of the municipality in the promotion of gardening activities. The municipality is to allow for the transfer of suitable land, even temporarily unused, for the use or consumption of a club for gardening activities, to cooperate with associations in the performance of tasks in particular in the field of nature conservation and mitigation of climate change, and to create the prerequisites for the creation, development and operation of gardening activities in the framework of spatial planning. It is proposed to extend the scope of the municipality in the latter area by authorising the municipality to define areas for gardening activities in the territorial planning documentation. [[12.20 hours]] In accordance with Article 2 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that, in the light of the above, it is necessary to assess whether the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty) and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as State aid within the Under the conditions laid down in the order of construction, the municipality in its separate jurisdiction issues a zoning plan and a regulatory plan. The territorial plan shall focus on the basic urban planning concept, the concept of public infrastructure and the determination of the functional area definition. The zoning plan is followed by a regulatory plan that regulates conditions in more detail in a specific locality for so-called. the area under consideration. Further formal and content requirements of the territorial and regulatory plan are regulated in addition to the construction law in particular by Decree No. 500/2006 Sb., on territorial analytical bases, land planning documentation and method of recording territorial planning activities, as amended. General requirements for area definition are regulated by the follow-up decree of the Ministry for Regional Development No. 501/2006 Coll., on General Requirements for the Use of Territory. There is a public interest in the existence of individual gardening settlements continuously as far as possible. The emphasis on the long-term duration of gardening settlements is also accentuated in Section 5 of the bill, when the time of leaving the plot for gardening activities must be at least ten years. In view of this, it seems practical for municipalities to be able to identify areas which are used for gardening activities or where they are interested in serving gardening activities in the future. If a gardening law is adopted as amended by this proposal, it will be necessary to reflect in the said decree of the Ministry of Regional Development No. 501/2006 Sb. the authority of the municipality to define in the territorial planning documentation the area intended for gardening activities. The aim of the proposed adaptation is to clarify the communication and information between municipalities and their citizens concerning the territory reserved for gardening activities, so that the municipalities will be entitled to define areas for gardening activities within the territorial planning documentation. I believe that this amendment has not only its head but also its heel, but also significantly facilitates communication between gardeners and municipalities. Finally, allow me to apply to the amendment by Mrs Jana Krutáková, who is under House document 6634. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-004-019.u19	There. I will now see if there is any interest in a speech yet in a detailed debate. I do not see interest, so I conclude a detailed debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Rapporteurs, the appellant - he is not interested, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Now he is interested in speaking with priority rights for the Pirates Club, Mr. Černohorský. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-004-019.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to ask for a break on behalf of the MP's club until 12.45. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-004-019.u21	Yes, I agree with your right and declare a break at the request of the Pirates' MP until 12.45 when we have a fixed point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-004-019.u22	We have 12.45 and the pause has ended at the request of the pirát, so I'm launching a fixed point that we have at 12.45. This is about
