ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u1	1. Government proposal for a law on the distribution of medicinal products containing vaccines for vaccination against COVID-19 disease, on compensation for harm caused to vaccinated persons by such medicinal products and on the amendment of Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on public health insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended /German press 1102/ - shortened negotiations That is to say, according to Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 5 they were able to assess whether the conditions for the negotiation of the said law were in short course, it is necessary to comment on the short-term, i.e. on the state of the legislative emergency. Who wants to comment on the state of legislative emergency in this case? Okay, please, Mr. Ambassador. A colleague of Mr. Volný. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u2	Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like us to vote on whether or not this law is to be negotiated in a legislative emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u3	Thank you. That's what I'll do in any case. Who else is reporting for the debate? I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. We will proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's draft law on the distribution of medicinal products containing vaccines for vaccination against COVID-19, on the compensation of the damage caused to vaccinated persons by these medicinal products and on the amendment of Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, House Press 1102, in a shortened hearing." I've started voting number 110, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 110 from the present 97 for 67, against 4. The motion for a resolution has been approved. I can therefore open a government bill on the distribution of medicinal products containing vaccines for vaccination against COVID-19 disease, on compensation for harm caused to vaccinated persons by these medicinal products and on the amendment of Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, House Press 1102. We're on short notice. I will ask the Minister of Health Jan Blatný to present the proposal for the Government of the Czech Republic. I will also ask Mrs Věra Adámková to take her place at the rapporteur's table because she is the rapporteur for this press. I beg the peace of the House. And once the House calms down, the Minister has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u4	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I present to you a draft law regulating the payment of optional vaccination against COVID-19 caused by SARS-CoV-2 from public health insurance for all insured persons involved in the public health insurance system of the Czech Republic. The main objective of this proposal is to establish the insured's entitlement to cover the vaccine and to carry out vaccinations from public health insurance. Please note that, should the proposed amendment not occur, it can be expected, among other things, that the interest in it could be significantly lower than if it is financed from public budgets, in other words, if it is free of charge for individual insured persons, without costs. Furthermore, the proposal regulates the specific method of buying and distributing the vaccine itself, which must be purchased directly by individual Member States, namely the Czech Republic, on the basis of the European Commission's decision to approve an agreement with the Member States on the acquisition of vaccines against the disease and thus cannot be used by standard procedures under the Public Health Insurance Act. For this reason, it is necessary to establish a general framework of relations between the State, health insurance undertakings and distributors, which will be selected in the negotiated procedure without publication under the Public Procurement Act. The proposal also remembers the compensation, and this is, please, a substantial, possible injury caused by vaccination against COVID-19 disease. This compensation would be treated in the same way as in the case of compensation for damage caused by compulsory vaccination, for example, under Act 116/2020 Coll., on the reimbursement of damage caused by compulsory vaccination, in other words, even if it is not compulsory vaccination and it is not compulsory vaccination, the State takes over the guarantee for such vaccination. That's pretty important information. It is clear from this that legislation will have an impact on public budgets. The primary purchase of vaccines is therefore carried out directly by the State in cooperation with the European Commission, which will ensure the purchase of the necessary volume for all Member States from different producers. The Czech Republic will purchase vaccines at its own expense. The currently spent money or signed contracts amount to around 1.7 billion, but these costs will rise depending on those additional orders in order to inoculate at least 60-70 percent of the adult population. The vast majority of vaccines will be used for vaccination of persons insured in the Czech public health insurance system and all such vaccinations will subsequently be paid to the State by health insurance companies. Furthermore, the application of vaccines will cost health insurance companies approximately CZK 5 billion, which are related to the vaccination itself. The public health insurance system will also bear the costs of distribution, as well as consumer material, and a gross estimate may be another tens of millions of crowns. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to address the impact of the COVID-19 epidemic, where it is highly desirable to allow citizens to be vaccinated against this disease as soon as possible, it is necessary to adopt a law ensuring the availability of vaccinations against this disease as soon as possible, and we therefore also propose its adoption in a state of legislative emergency. I would therefore like to ask you to support this material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u5	I thank the Minister of Health, Jan Blatný, and I note that the Committee on Health, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the decision of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, has discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House press 1102/1. I will ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Madam President Věra Adámková, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and to justify any amendments. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that COVID's current pandemic exposes all developed world states to certain new situations that we did not know, and given that it really seems to be commercially available and approved vaccine against this disease, of course, we must approach this vaccination very responsibly in advance for citizens of this country. In general, I have to say that vaccination has already brought significant benefits to the inhabitants of all the countries that had this opportunity at a time when it was possible, and it is not just the twentieth century, and it has saved millions of lives. The Committee on Health dealt with this draft law at its meeting on 1 December 2020 and, following the introductory words of the Minister, Mr Blatný, Deputy Minister, Dr Policar, of course, adopted a resolution: I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a general debate be held on the bill, II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill, III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to end its negotiations on the bill no later than Friday, 4 December at 2 p.m., IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to agree with the Government's proposal for a Act on the distribution of vaccines containing vaccines for vaccination against COVID-19, on compensation for damage caused to vaccinated persons, and therefore on the amendment of Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, House Press 1102, V. empowers the Committee's rapporteur, Mr Adámková, to familiarise herself with the Committee's opinion with the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, VI. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur, Mr Adámková, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies. So many committee resolutions. As far as the news report is concerned, after a summary of everything, the proposed law really makes it possible to include COVID-19 vaccinations in optional vaccinations and, of course, to cover all possible side effects. [[versus]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u7	I thank the rapporteur for her intelligence report. Before the debate is opened, we must vote on its proposal to have both a general and a detailed debate. We will therefore now decide to hold a general debate on the basis of a committee proposal. We will decide in the vote number 111, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of having a general debate as well. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 111 of the 97 for 67, against no one. The motion was accepted. So I will open the general debate. There have not yet been proposals to limit speaking time in the general debate to five minutes or to limit the number of contributions from individuals, so we will act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The first enrollment is Mrs Karla Maříková, and Lubomír Volný will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Government's proposal for a law on the distribution of medicinal products containing vaccines for vaccination against COVID disease 19, on compensation for the damage caused to vaccinated persons by such medicinal products and on public health insurance raises considerable concerns for a large part of the public. This concern is caused by unclear conditions in relation to how it will be treated against people who do not want to receive COVID-19 vaccine, particularly given the rapid development of the vaccine. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] There are also doubts about the possible side effects of vaccines. This is also confirmed by the expert, the vaccinationologist Marek Petráš, who said to CNN Prima NEWS - and I quote: "The only pitfall of this vaccine is its technological maturity, which has so far no support from the traditional vaccination. It is a RNA vaccine, the active substance of which is carried in lipid nanoparticles. The vaccine thus designed has never been used in humans, and therefore there are legitimate concerns about its safety, which we cannot estimate from the previous vaccination." End of quote. Another disturbing moment... I would like to ask if the Minister and the Minister here can keep their voice down a little bit, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u9	I understand, Madame. I will ask the House for peace, and once the situation in the various clubs calms down - those who discuss other topics can certainly transfer them to the foyer. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u10	Thank you. Another disturbing moment is the fact that some COVID-19 vaccine manufacturers refuse to take responsibility for any health-related school caused by vaccinated individuals. All these doubts lead to the proposal to leave the vaccine against COVID-19 in a voluntary regime. Based on media comments from members of the government and other experts with the government cooperating, such as Jarmila Rážová, the Chief Hygiene, who has commented for iDNES that vaccinated persons against COVID-19 will be able to use services that otherwise could not wear a drape without regular repeated testing, or an exminister of health, Roman Prymula, who acts as advisor to the Prime Minister, who said that anyone who gets vaccinated would not have to wear a drape. And Minister Blatný said yesterday in reply to my interpellation that he wouldn't say that anyone who wasn't vaccinated would be paralyzed, but the one who would be vaccinated would certainly benefit. In view of recent experience with a rather specific interpretation of volunteering in dealing with the COVID crisis, for example, in Slovakia in the context of testing, it is appropriate to define the prohibition of human rights violations to a sufficient extent as well as the intervention of other possible forms of discrimination against non-vaccines by such vaccines. A really wide range of rights must be established, which must necessarily be maintained, as it is not possible to anticipate the possible ideas of their limitations by both current governments and future governments. The amendment does not interfere with the Government's bill itself, but this proposal continues to guarantee the exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as economic, social and cultural rights, within the meaning of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, for non-vaccines. This prohibition is complemented by a general prohibition on any other discrimination. The main aim of this amendment is therefore to prevent people from being created in the Czech Republic in two categories, vaccinated and not vaccinated against COVID-19, with different rights and obligations. As I have already mentioned, the amendment does not interfere with the Government's proposal itself, but it is intended to bring peace and security to society that vaccination will be, as Prime Minister Andrej Babiš himself declares, voluntary and citizens will not be forced socially against their will to submit to such vaccination. Ladies and gentlemen, for these reasons, I would like to ask you for support, which will assure the public that words about volunteering are not just empty words that have no weight, and we declare to this public that whatever their decision is, they will not be reduced to freedom and their rights within the meaning of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Today's vote is actually a test of how we respect the constitutional rights of citizens, that they are not really in danger unless they decide to inoculate that they will be disadvantaged. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, on behalf of the citizens of the Czech Republic, to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u11	Thank you, Mrs Maříková. Now, with priority right, Minister of Health Jan Blatný, is prepared by colleague Lubomír Volný. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I, just a short time before I express myself specifically, will mention that the advantage I am talking about is given by the vaccination itself. If I compare it to the fact that, for example, when you travel to an endemic area for any other disease, you are likely to be vaccinated, and the advantage is, in particular, the prevention of the disease itself, often saving your life. As far as safety is concerned, I will just repeat that this is why the Czech Republic, like other countries, insists that the vaccine be approved by the European Medicines Agency, because we believe that this is a sufficient guarantee for all of us. And when I return to this particular law, I will just point out - and that is a mere point of view of my comment on your amendment - that this law please resolves the remuneration, the payment mechanism. That is the merit of this law. So as for the proposed amendment, which states that vaccination against covid disease should be voluntary, this declaration is useless from my point of view, because no vaccination in the relevant part of the law is mandatory, as is the case with influenza vaccination or pneumococcal infections. And the Public Health Insurance Act itself does not provide for any vaccination as mandatory, so we are talking about the Public Health Insurance Act, as much as it provides for entitlement to pay for vaccination, which other regulations - other regulations - provide as mandatory. Therefore, whether one of the vaccinations will be compulsory is provided for by legislation other than Law 48 other than the Public Health Insurance Act. In this context, therefore, the proposed addition to the word voluntary from my point of view is confusing, as it raises the question of why other voluntary vaccinations do not have this attribute there. As regards the declaration that failure to undergo vaccination does not affect constitutional rights, in this respect and in this law I also consider them redundant, because a simple law cannot, it cannot deny the rights enshrined by constitutional laws. And since there are no sanctions in the amendment for understandable reasons, I consider the whole amendment to be pure, at present, a policy that defines itself against any pressure to be or not to be vaccinated. But there is no such pressure, and it is no longer mentioned in this law. Therefore, for the net declaration of this proposed amendment, I cannot agree with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u13	Thank you, Minister Blatný. With Mrs Karla Maříková's factual remark, Lubomír Volný is ready. You have the floor, Madame, you are running out of time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, I do not think that the amendment or the definition is unnecessary. I think it will bring some peace into this society because, as I mentioned, there are some experts and members of the government, and yours, that society is divided, and it is genuinely afraid that there will be two categories of citizens - vaccinations and non-inoculation - and they will have different rights and obligations. As I mentioned, my amendment does not disturb your own government bill, and therefore I see no obstacle to why you should not support it if you are declaring that this is the case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Lubomír Volný in the debate. Please take your word for it, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'll apologize to you first that I'm performing unringed because I managed to damage my drape and another one is on the way, so I'm gonna ask the MP's staff if they can decipher the microphone after me. And I would also like to comment first on the position of Minister Blatný, who probably did not understand what is going on in society and what people are experiencing in relation to this planned - I would not even say vaccination, but rather vaccination with a vaccine that does not have a proper normal method of approval, which for the first time in history will play with a human genome that can change the properties of your children, because it is said that it can have an overlap up to heredity, so there is a very significant polarity in society among those who want to be vaccinated, and these are mostly people who have no information about this vaccine at all, and then there are people who are actively seeking information about these vaccines, they are critical, they are informed, and these very often reject it. I'm just gonna remind you, I think it was 2009, pig flu. Perhaps the Minister would like to express himself whether he was one of those 3 or 4 percent doctors who then gave up vaccination against swine flu, because he was already one of those large shops of Mr.Prymula, who ended up with several tens of millions or perhaps a hundred million scrap for the Czech state budget, which had, in its essence, been thrown out and disposed of because the doctors and medical staff, for whom this vaccine was purchased from the state budget, had already refused to have these vaccines administered by mass in 2009. We already have an example of the Prime Minister here today who doesn't want to be vaccinated because his doctor doesn't recommend it. We have a case here, now I can't remember the name of the honourable minister who himself had serious problems with his previous vaccination, and he won't have this vaccine administered. So we should assure the citizens of this country that this talk, impertinent talk and disgusting talk that is being held here in this House, that someone will be favored because they will be vaccinated, and someone else will be a citizen of the second category, in essence wearing a Jewish yellow star so that people on the street can spit on it, because it still has a mask on it... And those people who won't wear that drape will be vaccinated, so they're already impressed if they don't have 70, 80, 90 percent of the population, so that they can actually get infected because the vaccine doesn't actually guarantee them immunity. We've already witnessed scenes today in urban public transport, shops, and various streets, where people are aggressive towards each other and attack each other for not having a drape or having it misplaced. And if we don't stop this place and send a very clear signal to the citizens of this country that we, as a parliament, will not allow any large corporations, large companies, or even the last small vendor to bully, discriminate and divide this country's citizens into inoculated superhumans and non-inoculated subhumans, that is a disaster and we have failed everything we could do to make those people here feel safe. Your comparison is that someone gets vaccinated when they go to some land where there's a fatal disease, not only limps, but I think it's totally lame and in a wheelchair. We're not going anywhere. We'll live here in this country. And here, if someone doesn't want to get vaccinated and it's voluntary, we have to make sure they don't get bullied! This is to be ensured practically on the constitutional level. This should be ensured in the rest of our term of office so that no multinational corporation or any other service provider or seller of goods can legally discriminate against non-vaccine people under brutal sanctions! So it's going to be round two. But today is round one. And we are sending a signal today, if, Minister, in the words of your fellow member from the strike committee, the doctor, whose name, I apologize, I will also remember, is currently practicing in Switzerland and calling for you to stand up and tell people the truth, to leave his office and to pursue your quality medicine as a quality expert. So today is the first opportunity for this House to send a clear signal to the citizens of this country that we will not allow anyone to force them, whether the state or the private sector, to make it compulsory, virtually. They voluntarily had to be vaccinated so they could go to football so they could fly somewhere so they could go shopping at the store. This is pure fascism. It's Pandořin's locker, and it will lead to a division of society that sooner or later will cause blood to flow in the streets. So I clearly identified myself with the authors of the letter, which we all got into our parliamentary mailboxes. I assume you got him, too, Minister. But since we know how it ends with these mass e-mails, basically when you get 2,000 emails, the assistant will erase it all, and it's very likely that almost none of those who generally support vaccinations because they don't know anything about it, including doctors - and now I'm going to make a very critical remark on doctors. I have three newly educated doctors and doctors in my neighborhood. I asked them how deeply they discussed vaccinations. Then I'd be interested in your reactions if you got out here and told me whether it was your experience or not. They discussed vaccination and immunity on several three semesters. They don't know the composition of vaccines, many don't know the difference between generalized and targeted vaccinations, and they can't tell you what aluminium adjuvants are for in vaccines. So if the co-workers who got vaccinated against pig flu come out here and tell me what was the formulation of the vaccine they had injected, I'll give 'em a round of applause, but I bet they don't know. I bet they don't know. Well, I'll read you the letter you had the chance to get to know, but I'm sure many of you didn't. And if you haven't done so, I'm going to ask you to try to be at least supportive of information from the opposite bank and listen at least now. So this letter Mrs. Ing signed. Petra Cihlářová, Mr. MUDr. Ladislav Fiala, Mr. MUDr. Jan Hnízdil, Mrs Mgr Hana Janišová, Mr. . Petr Janiš, Mrs. MUDr. Kateřina Lucká, Mrs. Mgr Lenka Ničková, Mr. MVDr. Jiří Urbánek, Mrs Renée Ungrová, Mrs Jana Vohryzková and Mr MUDr. Ivan Vondřich, says: Ladies and gentlemen, you will soon be discussing the draft vaccination bill against COVID-19. Based on the media statements of the members of the government and the current development of the coronavirus situation, we have reasonable concerns that vaccination against COVID-19 will become a condition for the application of a number of fundamental human rights and freedoms... [[Noise in the hall.]] - Thank you for your peace, gentlemen. If you have any reservations, then you and I can deal with it outside, or you can approach the microphone here, and we can deal with it here. - Compulsory vaccination against COVID-19 is inadmissible and misused. There is only one guarantee that this will not happen, namely the guarantee of freedom of choice in the present law. In the Annex, we are sending an amendment, including a detailed justification. We ask you, as those elected by our will, to do whatever is necessary to protect our civil rights and freedoms. If vaccination is to be really voluntary, declare this fact clearly in the law. It is - whether it is approved by Mrs Maříková's proposal or the proposal here that we have taken over from the public space - that is really something that does not affect the law in its essence, but what has such a fundamental declaratory effect that it will calm down - I think it is now 36 percent that she wants to be vaccinated voluntarily - so all the other two thirds of society will calm down when one of these amendments is adopted. And if we do not accept it, Minister, then be sure, and I guarantee you that you will support the opposition of the company not only to this vaccination, but also to any other vaccination. Reasoning this amendment from the pen of its true authors, because we are merely the proponents of the proposal from the public space: Comparison with other viral diseases and vaccination against them. According to a meta-study published by the World Health Organization, SARS-CoV-2 has a mortality rate of 0.23%. In people under the age of 70, mortality is only 0.05%. On the basis of new information, therefore, the mortality rate of this disease is essentially close to the mortality rate of the flu. It is now known which groups of the population are at risk of Coronavirus, once again covering those groups with groups at risk of influenza virus. [[10.00 hours]] In a situation where there will be an effective vaccine available for these endangered groups, it is therefore unwarranted that vaccination should be on a non-free basis, as is the case for influenza vaccination, as there are indications, among other things from the health ministers themselves, that vaccination bonuses should be introduced, i.e. in essence clear discrimination against non-violence, or that vaccination, for example, would be conditional on the possibility to travel or return to the Republic - again the very modern word CovidPass - is essential for such pressure to be excluded and that the Act on vaccination against COVID-19 directly declares that vaccination is voluntary and must not be enforced in any way, or that the exercise of fundamental human rights and freedoms must not be linked to vaccination. Law No 258/2000 Sb., on the protection of public health, knows the institute of compulsory vaccination of children. For not receiving vaccination to minors, the possibility of imposing a fine of up to CZK 10,000 on parents and not receiving vaccination is sanctioned by the possible non-acceptance of a child to a kindergarten or the impossibility of attending recovery events, such as in a school in nature, which makes absolutely no sense for children from primary school, it is a classic bullying of inoculated parents, because they are with children with whom they would attend a school in nature, either way every day in one class. Unacquired children can attend the final year of kindergarten and can attend both primary and secondary schools without restrictions. No other diseases are linked to the failure of vaccination, although they are much more serious than COVID-19 due to mortality in the case of diseases that are so-called compulsory vaccinations. In adults, there is no control of the seroprevalence of antibodies against diseases for which children are required to be vaccinated. This is evident, for example, in measles, which are serious diseases. According to available official data, one of the four measles virus infected requires hospitalization and mortality is similar to COVID-19: one or two people per thousand infected die. Also in measles, up to one-third of the infected asymptomatic course has a significant proportion of the adult population. Serological surveys 2013 showed that 97 to 99 percent of people are positive in all age groups born before 1968, i.e. born before 1968. What is important, however, is a group of citizens who have no longer been able to get wet as a child because of vaccination. For this group, serological surveys from 2013 have shown that in age groups of vaccinated subjects, i.e. those without MgG antibodies against measles, 2 per cent for twenty-five-year-olds, 14 per cent for 30-year-olds, 17 per cent for thirty-five-year-olds, 23 per cent for 40-year-olds and forty-four-year-olds. This means that these do not have any antibodies for this disease, which is significantly more serious than COVID-19, even though they have been vaccinated and have essentially catastrophic results compared to the group that has not been vaccinated in history. At the same time, WHO repeatedly declares that measles are an extremely serious disease. There is an increase in disease in measles all over the world, such as the Central Bohemian Region. Measles are a serious disease in young children, and in adults, the disease is often serious. Complications occur in approximately 30% of patients and can affect almost any organ system. Their spectrum is very wide from ear infections through diarrhea and associated dehydration to severe respiratory tract infections such as pneumonia, and these infections may result in, for example, blindness or encephalitis. It is clear that measles represent exactly the same or greater risk than the new coronavirus. However, there is no need to demonstrate prophylaxis or valid vaccination for any activity. It is understandable that the State is addressing the issue of the introduction of disease from abroad, but this can only be done in the case of diseases that occur only and only abroad, and therefore the real risk of their introduction can be threatened. For example, this was the case with an ebola epidemic in some African countries. It made sense that the health of the person concerned should be addressed when crossing the border, but not when leaving the Republic. However, if the virus is already normally present in the population and it is practically impossible to eradicate it due to the means of transmission, it is unacceptable to restrict fundamental human rights and freedoms. It is also justified to introduce compulsory vaccination during travel for certain diseases. At present, however, it is only for those who pose a serious risk and have high mortality. Specifically, vaccination is compulsory for travelling to some African countries for yellow fever with 25 to 50 per cent letality. In addition, vaccination should be given on the way to Saudi Arabia for meningitis. Travel is not subject to any other vaccination. It is not clear from known data on COVID-19 disease that the disease lost leaves long-term immunity. It is likely that the disease with a more severe course leaves an antibody immunity, but it is also likely that the disease with a lighter course leaves a robust T cell immunity. In that case, losing the disease would be more advantageous for a given low-risk individual than the need for vaccination very likely to be repeated in the future. Another issue that I have already mentioned, which is of great interest to the citizens of this country, is the effectiveness and safety of vaccines that no one here, not one person, can say, has passed the standard procedure, standard control, standard tests, safety and effectiveness of vaccines, which use an absolutely new technology, which we can learn about in five, ten or twenty years. The actual effectiveness of the vaccine is a separate question according to the authors of the letter. For example, if it was 80 per cent, there will be 20 per cent of those who did not have the necessary antibodies after vaccination. It is not justified that these people, who will be able to spread coronavirus as well as the unscathed, should have the bonuses. If vaccination should indeed be a condition for the exercise of fundamental human rights and freedoms, it is essential that antibody levels are checked regularly for vaccinated patients. For example, there is more and more evidence for the gradual weakening of post-vacation immunity, the so-called release of immunity. The decrease in antibody levels affects the entire population, but it is most important in the high-risk population, which, due to other associated serious diseases, is already more primarily the production of antibodies after vaccination. There has been a remarkable development in the effectiveness of the vaccines in recent weeks. On 9 November 2020, Pfizer announced that the effectiveness of its vaccine was 90 percent. On 11 November, Russia announced that the effectiveness of Sputnik was 92 percent. On 16 November, the American company Moderna announced that its vaccine was effective at 94.5 percent. On 18 November Pfizer, who started this roundabout, stated that the effectiveness of its vaccine was not 90 per cent, but 95 per cent. The last Minister of Health and Vaccinologist Professor Prymula, who, moreover, questioned the reported data with regard to respiratory virosoes, was similarly reported to be a high effectiveness of the vaccine at the level of miracle. Along with the fact that the normal development of the vaccine lasts about ten years and the vaccine against COVID-19 has been developed over less than a year, the issue of vaccine safety comes to the fore. Even the vaccinologists have not yet agreed on which vaccine they would consider safe. Some have shown distrust of Chinese and Russian vaccines - similarly, there is distrust of Chinese and Russian nuclear power plants. Others, on the contrary, against REA vaccines. [[10.10 hours]] The conclusion is that performing forced action on the human body without the consent of the person concerned at the level of vaccination against virosis is, in essence, a brutal rape of a person who does not agree with it. And it doesn't matter if it forces the state to do so by means of a decree, by law and by sanctions, or if the state doesn't secure freedom of choice for its citizens and has these citizens bullied by some corporate companies or companies operating services and selling goods. And that's what this is about today. It is about whether this House will send a signal to the citizens of this country that it will actively prevent them from creating at least a two-class society where people will be vaccinated - and by the way there will be a lot of doctors, and now I will say it very hard, who will only have CovidPass, but will not be vaccinated. There are many doctors in this country whose children have a vaccination certificate that they are vaccinated and have never seen a vaccine even from a speedster. So that's what this is about, if we send out a clear declaratory message, a message to citizens that we, the Chamber of Deputies, will prevent them from being pressured by those who, otherwise, by denying them various services and selling goods, could complicate their lives in such a way that in the finals, they would have to virtually be raped by this vaccine. And yes, it is also important in this law, and it is important at any moment, and it is also the task of this law, because within this law you have the opportunity to approve one of the two amendments that sends this signal. And again, if you're a fan of vaccination, I'm warning you. I warn you that if you don't send this signal, the number of people rejecting the vaccine will increase, because in those people you will cause legitimate concern that you want to push them into exactly this state, and these people will be looking for all the ways to get that magic stamp or magic QR code without having to have them inject something that hasn't gone through proper development, something that will play with their genome, and something that can damage their children and their grandsons in ten, twenty years. Something that even the manufacturer of this vaccine doesn't believe, because he's relieved of responsibility for his own product, and something that we can get compensation for, even though we set up a fund, it will take years and years and it will be such an unpleasant and complex process that many people won't even take part in it. Please support one of these amendments, respect the mood in society, respect the opinions of your fellow experts and send out a clear signal that we, the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic - and I appeal very strongly to the right part of the political spectrum, which very often defends freedom to send out a clear signal that if we do not intend to regulate the use of this vaccine by law and do not intend to declare it compulsory, we will protect the citizens of this country from being raped by various larger or smaller entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u17	That was Mr Lubomír Volný. I've got... Mr Luzar will wait a little longer, because we have the Prime Minister's priority right here, but before him is the factual remark made by Mrs Procházková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u18	[[He uses hand sanitizer.]] So who's gonna do it? [[- Please.]] I'm not afraid, I'm vaccinated against everything. It is precisely such speeches, as we have now heard from Mr Lubomír Volný through Mr President, that are the ones that question people's views very much, and even those who have already been convinced that they can be vaccinated will have a big problem with this. I'm sorry. I have to say, and you challenged me, and then we can talk outside the door about what the vaccine was like. But I'm vaccinated against pig flu, and I'm vaccinated for normal flu this year. Nothing ever happened to me. Now let me tell you something interesting. Have you realized that the rights you just said here have the same rights as the others? That right of yours ends at my door, at mine. And we always know that the unscathed are profiting from the vaccine. And what are you going to say to those people who can't get vaccinated because of their medical condition? How do these people, what do you think their rights are now, if they can't inoculate themselves with the new vaccine? So they can't go anywhere because they know they're gonna catch it? Because there's gonna be a lot of people around here who aren't vaccinated, without symptoms? Where are their rights? I'm not questioning the rights. We all have our rights, yes, but there must be some order. We can't just turn this into some kind of... This isn't gonna work. The state, yes, will be responsible for this, I'm sure they'll take responsibility for this, but I don't think we're gonna impose on anyone, we're not gonna force it, the vaccine is voluntary. And I don't understand what the hell this is all about. And if you want, we can talk about the vaccine composition outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u19	I thank you for keeping time on a point of fact. The Minister will wait a little longer, Mr Volný wants to respond in a factual remark and Mr Luzar is on hold. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u20	[[Still no drapes.]] Yes, Doctor through Mr President, your freedom ends where my freedom begins, and my freedom ends where your freedom begins. And that is precisely the big problem with vaccination, because deciding where the limit is, when you unjustly put me at risk, or when I potentially threaten someone with my non-vaccination is very difficult, and that is why these debates are going on. However, this movement of people who doubt the effectiveness of this particular vaccine against covid does not lead people without education and without the ability to think critically. And if you were vaccinated against pig flu in 2009, you were in a minority, a dramatic minority of all doctors and health professionals. I've got a story here about Bulovka. In this year, they received a thousand vaccines, received 250 paramedics and 80 patients with chronic disease. Doctors and nurses refuse vaccination for various reasons, your colleagues and colleagues. Some have already experienced the disease, others are afraid of vaccines, others prefer vaccination against seasonal flu. The vaccine was thrown out, destroyed. At least there was 100 million crowns of damage. And I bet even for this particular vaccine, if you get vaccinated, you'll be in the minority. This isn't a fight with some laymen or uneducated people. The resistance to vaccination in general, because the vaccines have gone through a dramatic development, and they don't really mention classical vaccinations, they lead people with medical education, they lead people with scientific education, they lead people who put together metadata from millions of different cases. It's not like a colleague here, a student, calls and protests. [[President: Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact has come to an end.]] No.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u21	Now Mr Grospič with a point of fact. Mr. Secretary, I still... That's, like, the last point of fact at this point, at least I don't see another one. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll be very short. Through you to your previous speakers. I don't come out of a bit of a surprise, because we're talking about a law that essentially primarily determines that the vaccination will be voluntary, first of all, and second of all, if it causes any consequences, then the consequences will be borne and borne by the state, that is. [[Nesroz.]] So what are we talking about here? It's not like everyone has to get in line and get inoculated, and there's nothing left to do. Here's a choice. And, of course, there will be the dilemma of those who get vaccinated, and those who don't get vaccinated, who will protect and who will be protected or no longer protected. But first of all, I'm stressing the voluntaryity of this law again. And I'm not a keen fan of the vaccination, but that's just how it's built in that law. So the discussion here seems meaningless to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u23	Thank you for your time and I will ask the Minister to wait, because there are still two factual points after Mr Grospič, Mr Lubomír Volný and Mr Karla Maříková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, I'm measuring your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u24	[[He's coming back without a drape.]] Thank you. By means of your esteemed colleague Grospič, I will try to sum it up once more in those two minutes what's going on here. The point is, apparently, in my opinion, you don't read the mood and the opinions of society. And let's not just say it's completely lay, but it's not just a very large part of the company that's professional. The company divided into two groups. The smaller one is allowed to be vaccinated regardless of what the vaccine contains or does not contain because it believes in the system and wants to be vaccinated. The second critically identifies the development process of the vaccine, which it contains, and is concerned about the consequences of the vaccine, which did not pass the standard procedure, in the next five, ten, 20 years. And now that's not what the law is about. Yes? This is not what this law is about, but people, there is a social order, they want a guarantee from this House, and they asked quite massively for it, and we decided to grant them that this House will prevent them from being bullying. Because the Australian airline Qantas has already stated that they won't let anyone fly, who doesn't inoculate, who doesn't have a passport, just covid passport, or who doesn't inoculate directly at the entrance to their plane. And in England, it's considered that people who don't have a covid passport can't get a beer. And this is what citizens expect from us to send out a clear signal that we will protect them from corporate bullying, that we will not allow the formation of a two-class society! And this law is here, it's called the COVID-19 vaccination bill, there's an opportunity to send out this signal. But I repeat, whether you like it or not, if you don't send this signal and encourage vaccination, you're digging your own grave.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u25	Thank you this time for keeping time on the point of fact and now the factual remark by Karla Maříková, will be prepared by Stanislav Grospič. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also respond to my previous speaker, Mr Grospič, through you. The law itself does not say anything about volunteering, please read it again. It is our amendment that complements the voluntary amendment there. And as for the compensation, yes, you're right, he mentions the government taking over. But tell yourself, what good is financial compensation for damage if your health is ruined?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u27	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Stanislav Grospič's point of fact. I'm taking your time, too, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Through you again to my previous speakers. Of course, your amendment complements the volunteering there. And nowhere is it written that he doesn't stand a chance and that he won't pass and that he won't become part of the law. I myself see the amount and almost overshot of mailboxes asking us not to allow vaccination and violent vaccination of mothers with children, seniors and various social groups in this society. I think there's also a little bit of hysteria and pressure. But I would like to point out that the Czech Republic can protect citizens of the Czech Republic, we can say that we will not carry out any vaccinations here, that we will not offer any vaccine serum. I can also remind you that a few months ago, six months ago, a number of fellow Members here, I am not saying that you spoke in a completely different way. That they called for a vaccine serum to be here as quickly as possible to protect the entire society and guarantee that this pandemic, this terrible pandemic, will end and create a stable environment and bring us back to a normal life. I have no illusions about this vaccine serum that is being prepared. I said I was no friend, and I guess I won't be one of those who get vaccinated. But if there's a possibility, if we're discussing this law, let's give him a chance, and then let the volunteer go through there and anyone who wants to get vaccinated. And anyone who doesn't want to, don't get vaccinated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u29	Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u30	And to pay for the danger, it's like any other job.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u31	Ambassador, don't bother me. A factual comment by Bohuslav Svoboda. Then the priority right of the Minister, who is still waiting, as well as his colleague Luzar, duly signed up for the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I speak as an MP now, as a doctor and as a man. As a doctor, I have extraordinary knowledge of the area of vaccination. I graduated from a faculty that deals with it. I know pretty much everything about it, because I'm currently watching all this literature. And I'm telling you, I don't want to say anything but what I do and what I think. I, of all my medical education, of my ethical principles that I live and care for my patients, will be vaccinated. Listen to me. That's my crucial challenge. I'll do it willingly, and I hope a lot of other people will do it voluntarily. I just want to say that I'm the one who, given my age, certainly has bigger problems with vaccinations than people in full youth, that's what I'm gonna do. That's all I'm saying. I'll be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And now, with priority rights, Minister of Health Jan Blatný. A colleague of Luzar will be ready. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, briefly to what we have heard here from the Member. Allow me to start by borrowing a quote from my favorite Saturnin. "You're right, you're right. But what in God's name are you talking about?" The law that we are talking about now, please, concerns the remuneration. Recovery of the vaccine. There's no way this is anything that would mention the obligation of vaccination or any restrictions associated with this. I must therefore congratulate you on your excellent expertise. You probably have them far better than the professor or me. And I just want to point out that it's not true, it's not true that vaccines didn't pass adequate checks. And that is a guarantee, the European Medicines Agency, as with all the other medicines that are being administered in this country and in the rest of the European Union. I almost think that we should be very careful when we talk about fascism on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies in connection with the protection of citizens. Personally, I'm very sensitive to that! And last but not least, let me point out that these half-truths and often lies are water to the mill of misinformation campaign that the Chamber of Deputies has ordered us to fight against it. Please, we must all weigh very much the words! So do I want to ask the Member, or does the Member want to say that vaccination is rape? I quote from his words. Does he want to deny that vaccines have removed from the surface of the earth diseases that killed thousands and millions of people? We live so well because of what we've done in the past! I repeat: this is a reimbursement and no one said it was a compulsory vaccination. And last but not least, I'm just pointing out a valid emergency measure by the Ministry of Health about wearing drapes inside any enclosed spaces. And I think it would be great if, in particular, all Members set an example for their constituents.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u35	I thank the Minister of Health Jan Blatný. He raised four more factual points. I will say their order: Lubomír Volný, Karla Maříková, Alena Gajdůšková, Václav Klaus. We'll see when Leo Luzar gets his turn as duly logged in, but we can tell by the debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u36	[[As in previous performances comes without a drape, he gets one from the messenger. She was prowling.]] Yes, thank you. [[He's putting on a drape.]] Could I have a break, a few more seconds?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u37	I'll take your measurements again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u38	Thank you. So I'm running out of time. Your favorite Saturnin. What was I gonna say? Well, let me tell you again. And if you don't understand, I'm gonna apply to General again and read it to you again. Because I see this as arrogance on your part, because I've read the experts' arguments here, and you obviously haven't listened to me, or you've been trying to do some sort of ad homin, a personal attack. This is awkward and undignified of your position. I agree with your former colleague on the strike committee that you seem to have gone through some major personality change. [[10.30 hours]] So that's how people feel about it. If you do not accept either of these amendments and this House does not send a clear signal that you will protect them from corporate fascism, a matter that is absolutely clear and exists, perhaps in developing countries they would explain to you how corporate fascism is manifested, even by mass killing. Comrades from the left side of the spectrum could explain this to you particularly thoroughly, how corporate fascism manifests itself. Where billions of dollars are in play, corporate fascism always attacks. Yes, if I have to get vaccinated so I can go on vacation, because some corporation doesn't provide me with an unvacated service, I'll feel like I'm being raped. Yes, you can be raped by mandatory vaccinations that will be imposed on you by the state or corporations. And that's how citizens feel about it, and that's how they're going to feel about it. And, yes, I mean, I doubt that current vaccines have anything in common with vaccinations, as we have been vaccinated. They're completely different kinds of products. And no, I don't have an education like the professor, but I'm gonna repeat that you're a minority again. Most of your colleagues haven't been vaccinated. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u39	Thank you. Mrs Karla Maříková, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will respond here to the Minister's words. Minister, there is really nothing in this law about obligation or optionality, but the company, after that assurance that it will be optional and will not otherwise be socially pushed, simply calls. And it's your colleagues' statements and, unfortunately, yours. A colleague of the Volný here mentioned a foreign company, but already Ticketmaster let himself be heard that he was even working on a plan that would allow participants to show evidence that they were vaccinated against coronavirus or have a negative test if they wanted to go to a social event or entertainment. Please do not marvel at the citizens that they are calling for a voluntary decision to be vaccinated and that it will not be because they are at a disadvantage.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u41	Thank you. Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková, Mr Klaus will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u42	Mr President, Mr House, first of all, I say in advance, I will be vaccinated against covid, even though I have never done so, so that I may be vaccinated against flu. Oh, thank God I didn't catch those things. But now I'm gonna get vaccinated because we're just not gonna stop the pandemic any other way than we're just gonna break the chain of infection. And the minority and the majority, the citizens' wishes. My mailbox is jammed, so I'm missing things that shouldn't be running away from me because I have 100 e-mails, by the way, pre-fabricated next to each other. It's a question of how many people really think that. I answered one of them, and the lady texted me a thank you for the answer. And I'll read you what she said to me: there will be no mandatory vaccination, that's for sure. But the minister and others talk about bonuses and enforcement in the form of inability to travel without vaccination, restrictions for certain employment etc. This amendment does not change anything, it only explicitly names the protection of human rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental charter of rights and freedoms as one of the fundamental rights also lists the right to health, and that is what the vaccine can provide!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u43	Thank you. Mr Václav Klaus, Mr Grospič will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u44	As a mathematician and logician, I do not understand how the global pandemic will stop by having Mr GajdůGajdůšková vaccinated, but so be it. That's not why I got out. Minister, my favorite author, G.K. Chesterton, said that it is good to mention the good qualities of the critic if you want to criticize it to have weight. So I'd like to thank you for being the rhetoric against fear, etc. contributed 14 days ago to this society and its mental health. This debate is really about the fact that vaccination will be optional, but if these people are not vaccinated, they will not be able to buy food, so it is actually an obligation. I'm deliberately overreacting to explain. So the whole debate is being held to ensure that this volunteering is actually guaranteed. Now, let me ask you something else I wanted to ask you yesterday. I do not question the benefit of vaccination or vaccination to the health of the population, it can only be questioned by an idiot, the eradication of a lot of diseases. On the other hand, immunity is also very important. This is one of the basic things about health, especially against the flu. So I ask you as a resident of Pece pod Sněžkou why you forbid the start of ski resorts and prevent people from being in the fresh air. What are these people supposed to live on? When people here can yacht around bars again, so what's wrong with them standing with some scarves over their faces and glasses, they're usually families in line and skiing. So this is what I was going to appeal to you to say, as if you weren't just defending the interests of those big corporations that would produce some European vaccine, it's kind of haunting some of us when they hear that word, but also contributing to the health of the population and other means, such as staying in the fresh air, such as the mental balance that you, I think, Prymula contributed very much to at the beginning of your work, and it was very positively perceived, I think, by the whole society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u45	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Grospič, a point of fact, last at the moment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I can't do it. I'm always amused by you, Mr. Volný. Because the law is clear and I think that whoever wants to read it and understand it and knows that it is really an option, a voluntary one, a matter of paying the State and that it is not mandatory for the citizens of this country. And that, after all, it has been promised since spring that something like this will develop as quickly as possible either in the Czech Republic or elsewhere in the world, it will try and offer citizens one way to prevent and protect themselves from this pandemic. I was more amused by the comparison with corporate fascism. I think I'd like to ask you if he fought alongside fascist Italy 85 years ago when she attacked a free Habeš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u47	Thank you and Mrs Tereza Hyťhová's factual comment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u48	Thank you for the floor. I don't want to join either, I would say, fanatical party, because Mrs. Gajdůškovášková, what she said here, I don't think that - first of all, you're not a doctor, so I don't know what position you're talking about, that you know you're gonna stop a pandemic by vaccination. I don't know where you got it, if you're an expert in health care, or if I don't know. But anyway, speaking of who's vaccinated here, I'm not vaccinated for the flu, I'm not vaccinated for the swine flu either, and I think the words that are going on here today are really... Can I have some peace, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u49	Yes, you're right. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. I'm giving you more time, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u50	Thank you. I don't want to join any fanatical parties. If it turns out that vaccination is effective, of course, we all think we're sitting here, we'll be glad that the pandemic stopped, that everything will go back to normal. But today we're talking about making sure that citizens who choose not to inoculate, if they decide to do so, have any advantages or disadvantages. We're just asking questions here. But I don't think the point here is to tell 200 Members who's vaccinated for what and why they get vaccinated, and whoever doesn't say it here is the bad guy. Like this, madam, please don't! Let's just stick to the fact that it's up to the citizens, let's leave them with the freedom. They only want answers. That's gotta be tonight. Otherwise, I think that then calling some fascists here etc., that's completely misguided. So let's stay at the level of making citizens, which is why we're here today, getting answers to our questions, that's the goal, and let's not say who's being vaccinated for, and who's not, that's bad. Please, Mrs. Gajdůšková, don't! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u51	Thank you. We will continue with the factual remarks. Mr Antonín Staněk is next, Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared, then Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My point is that I think that Members should address themselves through you, which was not done in the case of my previous speaker. I'm sorry you didn't point that out. However, I would like to argue with the previous speaker through you. I think there are more Members here who speak on topics and are not experts. I don't think the attack on Mrs. Gajdůšková was entirely correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u53	Yes, I'm sorry I didn't warn you. I remind you that Members are to address themselves through the President. I thank Mr Staňek for his reminder. Mr Lubomír Volný is next, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u54	Thank you, Mr President. So I, through you, instructed by my colleague Klaus, whom I don't see here now, will first list all the positive qualities of you through to Mrs Hyťhová. My colleague, you look very handsome today. And now for the criticism. I don't think volunteering for vaccination is fanaticism. Don't be mad at me, but that has nothing to do with fanaticism. It's just about finding the line that a colleague of mine has been talking about before who's threatening whose freedom, who's threatening whose health. You can leave the House today, and you can get run over by tram number 15 or tram number 22 and no one can do anything about it. It's different with the vaccination. The vaccine has some effect on the human organism, and someone may say that it has a majority negative, someone mostly positive. Everyone has a right to an opinion. Your colleague told her that she would be given this vaccine based on her best knowledge and conscience. I, with the same weight and the same professional basis as her, declare that I will not be voluntarily vaccinated with this vaccine. And the only way to get her into my body is to get me to do it by some corporation or someone who refuses to give me a favor or sell me goods. And that's how a large part of society perceives it. And please, take a club meeting or think about the principle. Really, if you don't send out this signal to these people today, you're gonna make them suspect that you're working through the salami method so that the corporation can push them into the vaccination, and you're gonna cause resistance, and you're gonna drop the percentage of people who are now positively in tune with the vaccine and want to be vaccinated. Please accept at least one of these amendments. You'll only do well to develop vaccination.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u55	Thank you. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, at this time last signed up with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u56	I would try to sum it up somehow, because these expert examples seem really funny to me, even citations that are said are quotes from people that my knowledge says I wouldn't let them treat me. I'm only here because I want to represent the Latin proverb verba movent, exempla trahunt. Words move - your way, Mr. Freeman - words move, examples move. That's why I'm here, to say I'm getting vaccinated. And by your help, fellow Volný, come by the Central Military Hospital sometime when you say there are very few of us. We're setting an example. We just, since we got vaccinated, have some information on our license plate that we're being vaccinated against the flu. I've been vaccinated against her for the first time in my life. Because the situation is what it is. Remember: Verba movent, exempla trahunt. And that's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u57	Thank you. Mr Leo Luzar will now appear in the general debate, Mr Petr Pávek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u58	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Minister, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I do not know how to start in this heated atmosphere and debate. There are so many topics that it might be better to go back to the beginning and say to ourselves: people are already divided. Here we do not discover America, people are divided into Czech society. Can't we see, can't we? They are. And we should be the ones looking for the bridges between those divided groups of people and trying to connect them. Because what could be worse for a country without distinction of political nature than when society is divided? And it's divided on a covide basis. We must always be aware of this, whether we think about it, whether we believe it or not, whether we support that theory or not, yet we must realise that society is already divided. As for the law before us and the debates that are going on. It's like the Czech Republic is completely out of the world. But we are part of a world, a European Union. And do you really think other states will be different from the Czech Republic? We can be absolutely free here, as colleagues suggest. And I like it. Freedom of mind is very close to me. But they'll hit the border with Austrian customs or border guards, tell you where your passport is. You don't, back, or take a test. We are unable to influence this as legislators of the Czech Republic and may not be able to influence this situation within, I don't know, the European Union, the European Council, even the UN and similar matters. It's just an individual matter of individual states. So putting everything together and creating some idea for citizens here that the Czech Republic will be the island of freedom in the world is a misconception and a false hope. We can do our utmost for our citizens that this freedom will be maximum in the Czech Republic, because we all appreciate it and we want citizens to make their own decisions as much as possible. I am stressing as much as possible. We have institutes here to make this decision easier for us. We have here an SÚKL, an authority which is competent by the state to control drugs, control their effectiveness and let them into the Czech market. We are even going so far that we are not just dependent on European standards, we have our own, own institutions that can even warn us about something that Europe has already approved and we do not want to accept. And here we should be paying attention to the advice of experts, not to study every amateur immunology, biology and other fields and to seek simple answers. It won't be easy, because the vaccines in the world that will be available, I stress, will be available, will be five, six, maybe seven. They're all going to have those basic tests behind them in those, and paradoxically, they're on a different basic basis based on those vaccines. We're dealing with maybe one vaccine that's untested, innovative, absolutely even in a professional society perceived as new. But there are also classical vaccines carried out by classic procedures and we have to take these planes into account. And the state will stand before, in fact, which direction to go. And I believe that it will be more open to others in this regard, and it will not focus on just one company, it will not focus on just one type of vaccine, but it will allow those citizens to have a broader approach based on how they are willing to let themselves do this in the course of vaccination - I do not want to say because that is exactly what I would hate to hear in society. Once again, the company is divided. Once you start to force something in a divided society, you get to the edge, and those people who are willing to listen, they plug their ears. I'd like to stress that. And, Minister, I would like you to stress in your performances and in the performances of your subordinates within the Ministry of Health, which is the only relevant institution here that should be giving information, that it is speaking not only to its listeners but also to that counterparty, and that it must also consider arguments here, as well as what they are saying, so that it cannot be interpreted as coercion, to be interpreted as the danger we have. [[10.50 hours]] I really enjoyed the performance of the professor and the others who said about the vaccination. I'm gonna say a little lightening here, I was gonna get my first flu shot this year. Unfortunately, I had bad luck, I came across those bad corporations who delivered few vaccines to our Republic, and even though I was on the first day when it was commercially possible to vaccinate for citizens, and I applied and I was registered in that company, so I was already unlucky because all free vaccines were exhausted in the order of possible seconds within electronic orders. So I'm not vaccinated against the flu, and maybe I'm sorry from the point of view that I was worried and worried about the coincidence of these two infections. And that's also a question that concerns the particular law that we're discussing right now. The Czech Republic has taken this proposal into a number of countries of the world without distinction the establishment that is - I like to emphasise again - because it is not a policy - and seeks solutions for its citizens. The solution is to buy vaccines and allow citizens free access to these vaccines. I stress allowing access, not stuffing it into them. Even in the bill, it's written like that. However, I must stress one level that does not contain this, and that is my question to the Minister, and I will be happy to have him answer it. In particular, the European Union, particularly the European Parliament, strongly promotes, within the framework of the European Parliament's negotiations, that companies supplying vaccines guarantee the negative consequences of vaccination. We have a law of our own that solves the responsibility of the state for vaccination, and it is noted in this proposal. I would like to hear from you whether this resolution will succeed within the European Parliament and those companies will be forced to assume this responsibility within Europe, and they are trying to get out of this responsibility, quite logically, as the Czech Republic will proceed. If we do not put ourselves in danger of the words that the Prime Minister said in my opinion very unhappyly, when he said "nothing can be done, we must take responsibility" and, in a manner of public declaration, it is as if he had developed these companies from possible negative consequences. And now I stress, every substance, every drug has some negative consequences. There is no drug that doesn't have any, only the level of risk may vary, and therefore it is important that those companies that deliver these substances to our market know that what we have here is not some general excuse for them, but that it is a solution for Czech citizens within the Czech state, but that the Czech State will apply these costs then to these supplying companies, because they should not give up that responsibility. And I'd like the Minister here to make it clear on the microphone that that's how it's gonna be. And I'm worried, if it's any different, about what's going on around it. So I would like to hear this assurance, and it will very much affect the further procedure in the context of this law and other matters relating to the further continuation of the covid. There's one other thing that's worth considering, and that's the example, a personal example. We're really gonna have to be able to set a personal example for that company. I welcome here the individual initiative of the doctors, who here, colleagues and colleagues in the House, will come and say yes, and I will be vaccinated because I see myself as an expert, as a person who has done this medicine for many years, that it is necessary. I would also like to see the government do this to declare this position to its citizens. I'd like the chieftains to do it so that professors who like to comment on these things do it so that all the doctors who have the high credibility of citizens in their wine do it. Who is the most trusted profession outside the Fire Rescue Corps tonight? They are doctors, and they should set an example. What is being questioned here - yes, I know doctors who smoke, although they know very well that smoking is harmful to health. That's just the way it is, but they still have a huge degree of credibility in society, and if this front line of these people that are on that front line doesn't set an example, we're not going to be able to change the mood in that society. And that is my second appeal to the Minister to start dealing with this first line now, and to try to put it into the media sphere, too, that it is for the benefit of the citizens. Because if we fail here and it doesn't work out, then the shots won't work, and these people won't be convinced that it's really without significant risks. And the last thing I signed up for is my amendment, which I introduced into the system, and in a detailed debate I will then apply to it. I'm pointing out a little something here. The proposal before us states: The Ministry of Health can provide distribution - it can provide distribution - of the medicinal product referred to in paragraph 1 through a distributor under the Act on Medicines selected jointly by health insurance companies performing public health insurance. - I'm sorry, my glasses are foggy. [[He wipes them off.]] And here I want to draw attention to the word "together." In his short practice, the Minister has already tried how difficult it is to negotiate with insurance companies. We all experienced this when testing was carried out and testing substances were to be delivered and distributed to social care facilities. It took three, four, maybe a week for insurance companies to agree on what form the distribution would be done, who would do it. Except for the intervention of the minister, let's say, at the edge of some regular competition, this has passed and suggested. Again, this law says "chosen together by health insurance companies." It is assumed automatically that health insurance companies will find a match on the distributor who will do it. However, I am afraid of the same situation that occurred in testing that there will simply be an insurance company, which, for whatever reasons, will say I do not agree with this distributor, and there will be a problem. Therefore, I suggest that the word 'together' be deleted and replaced by'mostly'. This means that if the majority agreement of insurance companies is in the minority, whoever is in the minority will have to retreat in order to ensure the quickest possible distribution of these substances and we did not get into the same trap as the testing trap, when the delivery of these tests was delayed, and those who organized it were actually... not responsible because they were trapped in the current state of insurance in the Czech Republic. Therefore, we as part of the KSČM would like to enforce one health insurance company. But now it's a political song, and I don't want to run it that far at this point, because I think it's a non-policy thing. And once again, for the third time, I point out that society is divided, and here we should all be the ones that build bridges across the political spectrum, looking for understanding for that society, rather than dividing it, and blowing up the proverbial bridges. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u59	Yes, thank you. There are factual points. Mr Lubomír Volný came forward first, then Mrs Karla Maříková, then Mrs Monika Oborná. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u60	Thank you, Mr President. I thank my colleague Luzar, too, for preparing my microphones. And now I would like to comment on the search for bridges through you. I totally agree with that. There has been repeated freedom of vaccination from virtually everyone, including the Minister, so I would like a clear declaratory signal that he is serious. And the company's responsibility for their products. I also fully agree with you, Mr Luzar, through Mr President, because if the company does not believe in the security of its product, for which it will receive billions of dollars, and we should still pay any compensation from the state budget again, that is a huge victory for corporate fascism and the enormous insolence of corporate fascism. [[11.00 hours]] What I do not agree with you, Mr. Luzar, is that this is meaningless because some Austrian customs officer will not allow you to go to Austria. I don't care. We represent our constituents here, not an Austrian customs officer. And if the free-minded citizens of Europe will then run to the Czech Republic for freedom, I will be glad. Both vaccines, which could possibly be confirmed by the Minister of Health, purchased for the Czech Republic are mRNA vaccines. If I'm wrong, I'd be happy to apologize. Otherwise I repeat, according to iRozlas most Čech would currently reject the vaccine and expert on vaccines, expert on vaccines Mr.Marek Petráš, I can no longer read it, it is on the Message List, hesitates with the use of this vaccine because it is not sure of its effects. Let's leave the freedom of vaccination. Support at least one of those amendments. [[Attention on time.]] Maybe you'll change the mood in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u61	Time, thank you. Mrs Karla Maříková, factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would only react very briefly to my previous speaker, Mr Leo Luzar, through you. You mentioned here that there will be several vaccines, and the Czech Republic will be able to take the route on various bases. I'm gonna lead you out of a mistake. I don't think you've read the reason report. It says: The purchase of vaccines against new CARS-CoV-2 is centralized by the European Commission, which will ensure division between individual Member States. The European Commission has concluded an agreement with all Member States so that it can deal on their behalf with producers of candidate vaccines. In the contract, among other things, Member States undertake not to deal individually with producers and thus undermine the common negotiating position of the European Union. So we will not be a sovereign state in this case at all, and we will have to leave it to the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u63	Thank you. Member Monika Oborná... which looks like she's not interested in a factual remark. But Mr Leo Luzar is interested in a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u64	Thank you for the floor. I am through you to my honored colleague Maříková. She's partly right, but she doesn't quite understand what I'm going to do. The European Union has taken the initiative in the fight against covid, finances the purchase of vaccines and organises negotiations with those producers that are currently in the world of 5, 6, 7, maybe more, and centralizes purchases. That doesn't mean that, and that's what I've been pointing out, that he's gonna pick one single company and buy everything from it and distribute it to all the states of the European Union. Maybe that's the misunderstand. In other words, the European Union is buying vaccines and acting within the European Union, offering - I stress, offering - it is not the duty of the Member States to use them again - it offers access to vaccines. And I am simply pointing out that the European Parliament has quite a strong say in this and is trying to force those manufacturers to change the terms. And they are only able to do that under a great deal of pressure from such entities as the European Union. If the European Union has ever had meaning, it is in such negotiations with those multinationals. As for the amendment prepared by my colleague, I see it as a good one. I have no problem supporting him, because, yes, citizens are afraid and need such perhaps declaratory but clear assurances. It sounds from all politicians and from the prep students as well as from the plaintiffs of this law that the vaccination should be voluntary. And I'm counting on him to volunteer. And that's why I'm gonna support the proposal, because that's the signal to the company. But what I'm a great opponent of is the clear demagogy that often sounds and that just breaks down the bridges that we're trying to form between those groups. And unfortunately, those groups are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u65	Thank you. Ms Karla Maříková, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u66	Thank you, Mr President. I would have responded to my previous speaker. I only responded, Mr Luzar, through Mr President, that you said that the Czech Republic would be able to decide which way to choose vaccines. That's not true. The vaccines we receive will be selected by the European Commission. We're not gonna make that much decisions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u67	Thank you. Mr Petr Pávek will now appear in the general debate, and Mr Bojko will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u68	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, my dear colleagues, I did not think ahead of time to commend my colleague Leo Luzar for the propitiatory tone he gave in this House's plenary. Although I represent a group of people who are skeptical, for example, about vaccination, I am certainly very critical of a number of government measures or measures of the Ministry of Health that contradict each other, they do not make sense to me, so I would never, ever, ever think of sharpening or sharpening the debate here on the House floor, I would never think of pissing against those who want to be vaccinated, or against the state or organizations of the state that propose vaccination, just because I may personally take a different position. Nevertheless, it is necessary to return to what is actually the Chamber of Deputies. We are representatives of the people, that is, some groups, that is, we have been given a mandate, and we have to admit that in this representation of these groups, we simply have a duty to perform here. The fact that the groups differ, that they are breaking up, and they also differ in such issues as the view of the health of the whole society is completely legitimate, and yet the debate should be cultivated and, as Leo Luzar said, we should build the bridges rather than tear them down. Unfortunately, sometimes the Ministry of Health itself contributes to the destruction of the bridges through the mouth of its ministers, as they gradually came and left, and sometimes even the media that constantly have covid as the first report, and the haunting is certainly one of those negative forms of how to communicate with the company. I would like to return to the essence of this law. The law really only has a few paragraphs, it is very simple and it seems that it basically only describes the way in which we will buy vaccines as a Czech state, how we will ensure their financing and distribution among citizens and how we will ensure that the vaccines are sufficient. According to the explanatory memorandum, which was attached to the few paragraphs which could essentially not be ruled out, it is really that the decision was made in the spring, that the State had already committed itself in the Treaty with the European Commission to having the European Commission negotiate the purchase of the vaccines from various producers, it should also be added that the purchase would subsequently be paid and paid. Here we are getting a little bit to the political level of the debate, namely budget. Here sometime in May, the state signed a commitment to buy, which means they'll pay for the vaccines. That was about $1.75 billion. Today, costs are calculated in the order of 5 billion. This means that the remaining funds are intended for distribution and application. It is interesting that this theme comes to the House, which is to control the government, that it comes with many months' delay after this treaty has already been concluded. I'm not criticizing her, I'm not saying she's wrong. It's just interesting that we're actually here today to approve an ex post. And yet this government, which has already indebted this country in an unprecedented and unprecedented way, so that the $5 billion box in the state budget doesn't appear, has forced itself from the health insurance companies to make the payment that is connected to it in the amount of $5 billion, so that those health insurance companies actually bear the costs from their reserves and from their public health insurance funds. There's nothing we can do about it, it's agreed, but I just want to point it out. And I must say that this procedure does not seem entirely clean to me in relation to the state budget and in relation to Parliament as a supervisory body for government action. [[11.10 hours]] Finally, I would like to say that I very, very much understand the concern of people that they could be bullied in any way if they were not vaccinated, or have no confirmation that they were vaccinated. And what really contributes to this is the statements made by state officials, the Ministry of Health, that is absolutely unbelievable as far as this leads, and the reaction of a large part of society is causing the need for such amendments that have been tabled here by various colleagues. It's declarative, it's a little bit of pollution as if the legal document we're here to approve today. Under normal circumstances, it would not be necessary, but it is these statements about favoring one group at the expense of the other group, which lead to a massive opposition to society, to the concern of the company, and I cannot but join them. That means I say for myself that I will support my colleague Maříková's proposal on this. I will also support Leo Luzar's proposal, because the mention of the majority versus the common practice of health insurance makes sense to me. And all I can say for myself and my loved ones is that if there's a shortage of vaccines, I'm putting mine at my disposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Marian Bojko will now be speaking in the debate. Mr. Vlastimil Válek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, I will not speak for long. I was just - I was intersecting Minister Blatný yesterday, Minister of Health, and I wasn't able to say some things, especially when I was talking about the fact that we didn't have a cure for covid, but we're actually going to inoculate the healthy non-signal population. The minister gave me the correct answer, that's what the vaccination was about. I'm not questioning it. I admit that we as the Czech Republic actually were the best in the world to eradicate diseases such as polio, diphtheria, measles, typhus, tuberculosis, chickenpox. Unfortunately, with the current migration wave, some of these diseases are coming back to us. So there's no way I'm questioning it. On the other hand, these vaccines have been tested by a bunch of thousands of animal tests and experiments, on humans, and they've been tested, which I'm sure you can't say about this vaccine. When I see ministers slipping away, and it is not only in our countries, it is also in Slovakia, who declared, for example, the Slovak Prime Minister, that he gets vaccinated first, after 14 days he said that he would leave his vaccine to some doctor or nurse in the front line, so he made me laugh, and here we are also talking about ministers who have certain health complications etc., etc. It's everyone's business. Personally, I'm saying I'm not gonna be vaccinated. What was said here yesterday, which quite in a way, I do not want to say upset me, rather saddened that the Prime Minister, who was not telling the truth, did not tell the Prime Minister lies, but did not tell the truth when Mrs. Maříková pointed out to him, or told him that actually some health care professionals, such as vaccinationologist Petráš, Minister Blatný, Mrs. Chief Hygiene Rážová, in the media, were clearly filmed, said - Mr. vaccinologist Petráš, had some doubts about the vaccine. Minister Blatný and Mrs Hygiene Rážová said that the people who will be vaccinated will simply have benefits, and that is how the population will be pushed. The Prime Minister said: who wrote this to you, my colleague, is demagogy, lies. So it's not lies, it's true. Mrs Maříková was telling the truth, and it made me quite sad that the Prime Minister is lying here in front of the Chamber of Deputies. Someone was talking, I think it was an honorable colleague Gajdůšková, I don't know if she got vaccinated, she was talking about pig flu. I would in this context - I've said it here before, in the House. In 1976 a swine flu epidemic broke out in the United States. A single person died of the disease, the swine flu, but 25 died of vaccination. And there are still lawsuits going on, billions of dollars of those damaged and disabled patients. So this shows clearly that no vaccine is safe. And here, I'm completely stunned, the first thing that was, both in Slovakia and here - we have to set up some fund, a compensation fund that we're going to pay off those affected patients. So what we're counting on is that it's just gonna hurt somebody. And I personally wouldn't want anyone in my branched-out big family to be damaged by that. So far, we're all healthy. Praise the Lord. So neither I nor any of my family will be vaccinated. I was quite laughed at by one joke today, which is so telling, when two mice are having fun, the one says to the other: "Hey, Mik, will you get vaccinated against covid-19? And the other mouse says to him, "I'm not crazy, I'm not done experimenting on people yet." So I guess that's my opinion on this test. I'm absolutely convinced that you've released that level 3 so that people can spend their last money, buy shoes, clothes for children, and after New Year's, you say, "You did it, you wanted Christmas, so we're gonna go to level 4 or 5 and we're gonna shut you down again." When you get the last of the money out of people. And what fascinated me was that there are people in the government like Minister Metnar, who on ČT24, when Mrs Písařovicová, the moderator, asked him "so you claim that the covid is not spreading in the supermarkets, but in the small shops," "exactly so." [[answered]] Well, that really made me laugh, that really tells me about his competence. So, once again, I will not be holding back here, for myself and for colleagues from our club, the Unified movement, I say that I will vote in favour of Mrs Maříková's amendments, our amendments to my fellow Volný, Mr Nevludová, and I will certainly not raise my hand for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The last one entered in the general debate is Mr Vlastimil Válek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u72	Thank you, Mr President. As part of today's debate, I realized how stupid I was when I joined the Chamber of Deputies, how naive I was and how senseless I had admiration for Members. I was about to come here as much as I was going to the science council. What kind of law did I study, how I memorized the organizational order, so I wouldn't be here for... And it wouldn't have happened if I hadn't. Because at the science council, anything that many of you have said here would have to prove it. She'd have to project the articles where it is, like, "in America, you, there I am," no one would dare. Everyone here can say what they want, it doesn't have to prove if two days are forgotten. He's got five minutes of fame here, and a bomb. I think the law is good, the law isn't bad. What is wrong is that the public knew about him three weeks before the MPs knew about him. That's too bad. Too bad we learned the text of the law on Tuesday. I will, and I blame the Minister. I hope this is the last time. I hope that the first will always learn about what is to be in the law, and then it will spread between people and not create hoaxes that spread half-truths. [[11.20 hours]] In that law, it's very right that vaccination is optional. If it were mandatory, I'd be the first to chain myself from the waist up naked in front of this House and not let the minister in. I hope my colleagues and SPD colleagues will join me, just like they did in England when they were released, sort of... All right, let's do this. The second thing, for which I thank you very much and very much appreciate it, is that it is meant for compensation. Because it doesn't exist, there's nothing that's 100% safe. I remember a patient whose penis was operated on because he put on an unprofessional condom. You'd think it was such a condom, it's safe. [[Laughs in the hall.]] You'd be surprised, my friends! What would that man give if he could get compensation? [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] That way, only a lunatic can think he's a 100% safe vaccine. It just isn't. The studies are doing it to verify that the complications, the side effects, aren't life-threatening, they're doing it on large files. And that explains why the vaccine evolved so quickly. She didn't develop that fast. Firms started developing covid vaccine when SARS and MERS appeared. He was also a coronavirus, the carrier was. A new vaccine always develops on influenza strains every six months. It doesn't bother anybody that the development of the new flu vaccine actually lasts less than six months. Because the caddy knows them and only changes what's on that caddy. After all, the second difference is that in that - well, you can nod your fingers at me all you want, I just know what the correct answer for the epidemiology exam is and what the wrong answer is. And no matter who thinks what they want. The wrong answer is throwing out, the right answer is taking the test. It's a trifle, and it's a stateswoman. However, incredible money has been injected into the research, really incredible, incomparably larger than the AIDS vaccine or AIDS research at all. And I, who had been monitoring European studies for about four or five years, can tell you that not a tenth of what was actually being done, and which was the last thing I monitored, which had been in Viagra's way, has been put into the study, not even a tenth of what was involved in this research. [[Nesroz.]] This was also the reason why the three-way phase went very quickly, because it simply managed very quickly to recruit a huge number of volunteers in the three-way line. But I think these things are irrelevant. The important thing is that the vaccine will be voluntary, whoever wants it will be vaccinated, who does not want it will not be vaccinated. I hope the vaccines will be enough for those who want to be vaccinated. I hope that, before the public comes to the Chamber of Deputies, we will have a vaccination plan - so that we can carry out this discussion for health reasons before we are exposed to public attacks - and we will discuss it. I hope there's enough syringes, needles, that we're all set up, that strategy. And those who get vaccinated won't get vaccinated, those who don't get vaccinated. It's right, it's logical. I don't even know what year it's gonna be. And, yes, we had a debate through the President with colleague Pávek - the Spanish flu had three waves, the third was the biggest, the fourth was small and then disappeared and no one knows why. Maybe this way, the coronavirus could disappear. You want to take that chance? Okay, there are those who say the virus isn't, quarantine is useless, only idiots wear drapes - I'm sorry about the word. I understand them. Comrades in China said the same thing. Doctors who pointed it out, criminalized, closed, no drapes, no quarantine, no covidence. Intensely, they've done it for months - one, two, they won't know how much. According to what some of the doctors then published in foreign journals, even three months. And what happened? What happened in chan. That means we don't know what would happen if there were no precautions... But we know. Experimentally, comrades from China checked it out in chan. What would happen if there were no precautions if we denied the existence of this virus for a few months, walked without a drape, didn't have quarantine? It's okay. They need to be thanked for it. Now we know and we're taught what would happen. So please, we can choose chan or yes or no. No! I hope we all agree we don't. We don't know what's coming for us in the spring, but if the virus behaves the way the Spanish flu virus and a number of flu diseases behave, it's likely that the aggression of the virus will start to rise again. But the aggressiveness of the virus, the risk of getting the disease, doesn't mean the number of people infected. The number of infected with increasing aggression grows when preventive measures are not good enough, good enough, and yet the virus allows the population to spread. Well, that's what we should be defending. What is not clear to me in this law, of what I am lightly concerned about - and I would like to say through Mr President, I would never believe that I would say this out loud, and I would like to say this this this time very much, really very much, thank you very much for speaking to my colleague Luzar, who was lucid, who was rational, was extremely right, and I very much appreciate this attitude from a non-doctor. Thank you. I'm only worried, and that's what I'm asking, Minister. If he delivers a vaccine, such as Chinese or Russian or any other vaccine, which is not in our pre-order, any distributor to the Czech Republic, does this law also apply to him? Does this also mean that this vaccine will be free of charge for Czech citizens, and will this vaccine also be compensated for, or have we forgotten? If we've forgotten, which can happen and I don't think it's a mistake, I think there's room in the Senate to fill it in. It would be very good, because I think that we have to guarantee to the citizens of the Czech Republic that any vaccine that is of good quality - and I do not doubt that Chinese or Russian is not of good quality, not at all, they can do studies in a completely different way than in democratic countries - so that this vaccine is free to be voluntary, and if there are any side effects, so that citizens can be sure that there will be compensation as we have here, remember your colleagues and colleagues, they have also pushed through the law that we discussed about a year ago. And it was right. Now, about what the advantages and disadvantages are. It would be a disaster - and here I agree, through Mr President, with a single sentence from a fellow Member of the Volný - if someone were to wear a Jewish star here. And that would be the one that was vaccinated, or the one that wasn't vaccinated. Not one group can wear a star. But I don't know, and I'm happy to take advice on how to do this so that when England starts to vaccinate, because it is not in the European Union and doesn't wait for the EMA to decide and can start - when England has made a huge promotion five months ago, it is very likely to have 70, 80 per cent of the population within a few months, because it is such an interest in England, and when our students have England as one of the first destinations of Erasm, and when a lot of Čech goes there, and England is not in the European Union, it means that the bad European Union can't stomp and say this, so we will not - how to do it when the bad ones - I will use the words of the poet - who betrayed us from it Albion, they will betray us again as they fear the SPD, and they will say yes, we will let you come here, but only with the covide. Sure, we can go strap ourselves in to the English embassy. I'll go with you for the fun. If there's any effect, I don't know. But yes, it's a restriction, and yes, I'm very afraid England can do it. And yes, if the Němec run the vaccination plan, and they've got it all figured out, they have 250 vaccination centers today, so I'm very afraid they'll do what they've done now: you must have a negative test, or we won't let you in. What are you gonna do about it? We can cuff ourselves to the border and not let those Němec in. And they did it to the Rakušák. So sure, so that we can travel across the border, we can do customs at Golčova Jeníkov and issue a Moravian passport. Markrabism will be happy to do so for the Czechs. But that's the only line we'll cross. And that is why I want my fellow citizens to have the opportunity to go to England, to go to any country that decides to take this step, and to have more options that they can vote for. Either a negative test or a vaccination, or - and, of course, I will interpel the Minister of Foreign Affairs to prevent this - or the political pressure of the Czech Republic on the measures. [[Nesroz.]] But I'm used to getting ready for a preemptive problem. And if there's a problem like this, I want to be prepared for it, and I want our citizens to have different options. [[11.30 hours]] There may be those among us who say, Quarantine is bullshit. It's nonsense to be quarantined. - We had a pretty big fight about it with some of our colleagues. He lost his doctor. I didn't, I would never do that. What if quarantine isn't bullshit? Maybe quarantine isn't stupid. So I don't think quarantine crap is that quarantine is important, I've always been taught that way. Plus, I wouldn't dare say it's bullshit, 'cause if I said it and my educators at medical school found out, I'm in trouble. So quarantine isn't bullshit, believe it or not. But then I think it's fair to say to those who have been vaccinated, well, you don't have to be quarantined, you're vaccinated. - You see any discrimination in this? You see bullying in that? And the last objection I have. So, folks, do you really think that all other laws, where there is no obligation, where there is volunteering, can we violate fundamental human rights and freedoms and the Constitution? And that's the only law, isn't it? This means, in the case of measles and other voluntary vaccinations, we can violate human rights - only in them!, we can break human freedoms - only in them!, and here in this one case, no? [[Emotionally.]] We are here to do this - and I hope that all of us, left, right - so that we never, ever again allow human rights and freedoms to be violated. [[with emphasis]] And they weren't leaning on the crutches of some sort of clause in some kind of law. They're not gonna make it happen. That's what we're here for. That's our duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u73	Thank you. It will be followed by factual remarks. First, Mr Lubomír Volný, then Mr Marian Bojko and Mrs Karla Maříková. I apologise, Mrs Karla Maříková also signed up for Mrs Věra Adámková to follow the order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u74	Thank you. I've been making a lot of notes here, trying one by one. Yes, Mr Docent, through Mr President. When I went to Parliament, I also had some ideas, not only about the Members and their quality, but also about the quality of, for example, the chair of the movement for which I was elected, and I was often disappointed. Yes, I also agree with you through Mr President that this would need some correction. We'd like to have a big record here that we can present our arguments on. It would be at the level of the 21st century, but unfortunately, we need to amend the Rules of Procedure. So maybe we can get together and create some kind of expert group to make these arguments public here. Otherwise, the only reason I'm here right now is because there's a word called hoax all the time. Excuse me, what hoax did Mrs. Maříková or I present here? Our proposals only say that we want to add something to the law that would send a signal to citizens, just as you said, Mr Docent, through Mr President, that this House will not allow human rights violations. And people don't understand it as accurately as you do, that, of course, the human rights are incorruptible. They're afraid someone's gonna break them in a way they don't agree with, and they see it in Western Europe. So we send out the signal that we know about it, it won't cost us anything, it'll only be one or two sentences in the post. And again, you used the same argument as your esteemed colleague, Mr Luzar. I don't give a damn what's going on in England, and I don't give a damn if a student who wants to have a stay in England gets himself voluntarily vaccinated. He's entitled to it. I'm in favour of freedom of vaccination. I don't care if I can't go to Germany, I don't care if I can't go to Austria, I just want to drive to Beskydy or Jeseníky, that's enough for me. But I don't want the cable car operator in those Jeseníky to reject me with the fact that I'm not inoculated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u75	Thank you. Mr Marian Bojko, then Mrs Věra Adámková, factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to Professor Válek through you. Although I really appreciate him, he's a very entertaining companion, even when we were together on the agricultural committee, he has the right English humor and I love listening to him, he's a great wine expert, better than me. But what I have to respond to. I've been everything in my life, Professor. But I haven't been crazy yet. But you think I'm crazy. And I, as a madman, call on all of you honourable Members who are constantly raising their hands to prolong the emergency situation, you are hoarding for the vaccination, so let your children, for example, be inoculated in Václavák, whether you are inoculated by Professor Žaloudík or He nested, or Dr. Peková, or Professor Pirk, who you've been media-cramming into the country so they don't respond. So if you want to extend your emergency and lobby for vaccinations again, let the entire nation see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u77	Thank you. Mrs Věra Adámková, factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me just a few slogans - because, of course, as rapporteur, I will remain strictly neutral - to realise what we are talking about. To the Margo, so many times quoted by Dr. Petráš. This is undoubtedly one of our biggest vaccineologists, perhaps the biggest, for your information is the representative, the only, this republic since last week at the ECDC for vaccine evaluation. He made it clear, because until we have the final results of the European Medicines Agency for the vaccines, we can't even say anything else. So please don't quote the TV, the newspapers, because, of course, the journalists have an idea, they have journalism, it's not entirely serious. Secondly, in terms of effectiveness. Please... [[A call in the government desk.]] I'm not able to scream you out. [[The President is begging for peace.]] Please, you rarely have 100 percent efficiency in medicine, virtually never. Vaccines that are long-term on the market and no one will question them, you know that for years there was a tuberculosis vaccine, 80 percent efficiency, and we all applauded, and we had medicines for tuberculosis. So please, let's not say that it has to be 100 percent efficient. It's almost impossible. And another thing that's like a myth here. Even in the case of compulsory vaccination, strictly optional - please, voluntary vaccination is a bit complicated, voluntary is probably a firefighter. [[unintelligible]] But we have compulsory vaccination - optional and optional in that I can agree with him or not, but there is still a doctor there, whether it is appropriate for me. So saying that some government or anyone gets inoculated, his doctor really can't recommend it. So please don't confuse deadlines. Otherwise, I firmly hope that of course we have handled other things, we will certainly manage beta-coronavirus and we will certainly manage it well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u79	Thank you. Mrs Karla Maříková and Mr Vlastimil Válek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will only respond very briefly to my previous speaker, Professor Válek. They're not afraid of SPD colleagues, Professor. They're afraid of a lot of the public. And I dare say it's an absolute part of the public. You got those e-mails just like I did if your assistants didn't delete them. Of course, if the country we are going to travel to requires a test or vaccination, then we are forced to respect it. I mean, even today, there are countries when you're going somewhere to the tropics that require some mandatory vaccination. That's just the way it is. We too can demand this for those who come to us. And about the violation and volunteering. Representatives of this state, even the Prime Minister himself declares that the vaccination will be voluntary. And if that's the case, then we can't even, at all, even think about dividing people here into vaccinated and unscathed and that the unscathed will be at a disadvantage. You can't do that. It's unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u81	Thank you. Mr Vlastimil Válek, after him Mrs Helena Válková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President, for calming things down. I am extremely glad that colleagues on the right perform in unity. I was a professor, I'm a professor, I was happy, and who knows what I'll be in a few years, and it doesn't offend me at all, on the contrary. The docent is just some, the professor is everyone, even a high school teacher. That's what they taught us in college, which means I respect the professors immensely, and thank you for that. I certainly don't think a lunatic is an insult. When I go after the clinic, the employees call out, "Watch out, the stressor's coming!" and they're running. So I'm considered in my workplace, unfortunately, it's my fault, it's crazy, and I don't think it's a bad quality. A lot of people act like that, and it's not a mistake. koneckonců all, let's remember the defenseman Sparta, who's been locked up for a while, free for a while and acting like a madman, and yet he was one of Sparta's best defensemen. I didn't name it. [[11.40 hours]] And I certainly agree, through Mr President, with Mrs Maříková, and I perceive her struggle. I'd just be careful with the majority. I don't know what data he had for most of them, but there was this bunch in Brno, they were called slušný people who also spoke for decent people, and it didn't turn out so well, and they didn't behave very well either. I'd always be careful with the most of the time. It's not always the majority. Sometimes they're the ones who scream the most, sometimes they're the ones who are kind of right, sometimes they're the ones that lead to very positive changes, sometimes they're the ones who nationalize and expropriate. And unfortunately, it was once those who drove the Žid to a concentration camp. I'm always worried when someone says that most people, and they don't have the facts, they don't have the data for it, they don't have the evidence. If you really know that 51% of Czech citizens of your age have this opinion, which you say, I bow to your information, I have great admiration for it and it is most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u83	Sorry, time. Thank you. Mrs Helena Válková. Mr Lubomír Volný will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I am speaking from the position of Human Rights Commissioner. I am pleased to have this opportunity and priority here as a Member, because I want to reassure those colleagues who feel that this standard is discriminatory in any way. As an agent, and you can trust me that I like doing this, I'm reading all the patterns that could hide the threat of discrimination. This threat is not in this standard. We can talk here about how my previous speaker here, through you, Mr Vice-President, Professor Válek, spoke about whether he is complete. I also thought there was something else I could fix. But we need it right now to be even comparable on that European scale. I think that we are part of the EU, and so allow me, it will matter to me whether I can travel to Germany, Austria, Poland and other EU Member States, because I think I am a proud citizen of the European Union in addition to being a proud citizen of the Czech Republic. So not everyone will approach it, I don't care, I'm in our Czech Republic, it's all enough for me. [[♪ So ♪]] This is not discrimination either, it is sovereign states that can decide, of course, what advantages or disadvantages will accompany those who, from their point of view, would pose a threat to public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u85	Thank you. Mr Lubomír Volný, then Mrs Karla Maříková, Mr Václav Klaus - factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u86	Thank you, Mr President. It will be interesting to see where the Prime Minister of this government will travel, who will most likely not be vaccinated because of his health indispositions, will probably be in the same position as the VIP business of persons and journalists in England, against whom the exception now applies that these VIP business of persons and journalists do not need to be quarantined in the United Kingdom. Again, it really is the emergence of two different categories of people. Otherwise, Mr Docent, through Mr President, I have a public source here, iRozlas, unfortunately we do not have the canvas here to show it on, or I will send it, it is dated 25 September. Most Čech would reject the vaccine against covid, reports a survey. I don't have any information yet, I haven't found any relevant survey in which it would be more than 36% of people, that they would voluntarily be vaccinated, and that's correct. If they want to be vaccinated, they must be able to be vaccinated. It's our duty here to protect those who don't want to be vaccinated. Then let's do it. And I am really focusing on the right part of the Chamber of Deputies, which has a fight for individual human freedoms, one with another, you have it in your electoral programs to overcome party ideological problems, to sit down, to call your piárním advisors, to find out what the real mood is in society, and please send people a signal that this Chamber of Deputies will not at least allow any corporate to restrict fundamental human rights and freedoms within the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u87	Mrs Karla Maříková, then Mr Klaus. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As a response to Professor Válek, I would invite Minister Blatný to come forward and tell us how many citizens are actually interested in this vaccine as much as a percentage as possible. As far as I know, we talked about it on the Health Committee, and it's not that big of a deal. Furthermore, I would like to respond to the previous speaker, Professor Válková, through you, Mr President. No one here is saying that the novel is discriminatory. Discriminatory is how some government officials express themselves that they would like to favour those who are vaccinated here and should not be favoured by those who do not get vaccinated. If this were reality, it would be discriminatory. And the only thing the public wants us to give them is to make sure that it doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u89	Thank you. Mr Václav Klaus, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u90	I wanted to respond to Mr Válek on a factual note. After all, he's my almost-neighbor, and he has a very interesting dictum. I am always a little sensitive about these attempts by some colleagues to lean on their expertise and suggest that the other Members are second-class Members on some issues, because it is precisely the principle of representative democracy that everyone is equal and represents citizens. You've been talking flamingly - and now I'd go to that scientific note, even though I'm a mere high school professor, albeit mathematics - you don't have any proof in your hand that 51 percent of the citizens aren't afraid of vaccination. That's a simple fact. So to refute the argument by seeing it as a mathematician, that x is not 7, and therefore x = 5, is unscientific. If you're training others here as your education, then follow the basic scientific standards of logic, I'd challenge you. Moreover, I myself have read several surveys that the vast majority of Czech citizens we represent refuse to vaccinate in this wave of vaccination. This was done by the press, by public radio, based on some kind of research. That's right. And a lot of colleagues are trying to defend these people because they're afraid you're going to have to force them to do it. That's the feeling. We're not discussing whether vaccination is good or bad. There's, I think, a scientific consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u91	Thank you. Mr Lubomír Volný, factual comment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u92	Thank you, Mr President. I'm the one with my previous intel about England creating two kinds of passengers, here from these benches he heard laughter. He's a Member of the UK Parliament, Secretary of Transport, I'd say he's the Minister of Transport, it's on his official Twitter account, where he has 177,000 followers. Unfortunately, I don't have that canvas again, we really should be able to project it. The exception for, and I'll read it, high-value business travelers, that means for VIP businessmen, the exception for journalists, the exception for sports stars. Those are first-class citizens in England today. If they come from a country where there's a high degree of disease on COVID-19, they don't have to be quarantined. There's a two-class company in England already here. If you don't mind, I really do. And that's not information that's hoaxed, sucked out somewhere, and deserved to be ridiculed. More like it points to your certain arrogance and ignorance that you won't ask me where I got the information from, and I would tell you, you would verify it, and you would know that it's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u93	Thank you. And we are returning to the participants in the general debate. The last entry is Mr. Vít Kaňkovský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u94	Dear Vice-President, honourable members of the Government, dear colleagues, I would like to introduce you to the opinion of the KDU-ČSL MEP on the amendment tabled. The KDU-ČSL MP club supports voluntary vaccination against COVID-19 disease, i.e. against its originator, and therefore we will support this government bill, even though we are an opposition party. That's point number one. I am stressing the word voluntary there, because we are both on our expert team and on the debate with our voters, as well as on the fact that there is some conflict that is on this issue, and I am deeply convinced that, in the context of this situation, this vaccination needs to be voluntary. I am pleased that vaccination will be provided by the state to our citizens and that it will be provided as a free vaccination, which I see as an important attribute. So the KDU-ČSL will support the Government's proposal and, after a long discussion, we will also support the declarationative amendment by Mrs Maříková, although I must say that I do not fully agree with the reasoning there. I am convinced that there are a number of arguments or some emotional expressions in this reasoning, which are more likely to tear down the bridges we are trying to put back together among those desecrated camps. And I'm a little sorry about the debate that was here, even though I don't question it, everyone has the right to express themselves here, and that's that those who are fighting for this volunteer, and I'm fighting for it here, too, but some of those who have spoken very emotionally have actually started to touch those who want to get inoculated in their comments. And basically, some of them said that their reasoning was that the vaccination would be harmful. I don't know if they realized. They say in one breath that they're for volunteering, they're against discrimination, but at the same time they're putting up with their arguments that the vaccination will be harmful. And I don't think it's the right forum for us to do a resumé here to whether or not vaccination will be harmful. I, as a doctor, can say, and I am neither a vaccinologist nor an epidemiologist, I am merely an orthopedic surgeon, so I must say that I am reading on and on and on and on and on and on, and I understand the general public's lack of clarity. She's not exactly clear about it, even the professional public. This means, of course, let us perceive certain doubts that the public has, let us note that even the mood at the moment is torn apart, but on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, let us not make a resumé in whether or not vaccination against COVID-19, either from one or the other, will be harmful. No one knows that at this point, or rather, we certainly do not know that here in the Chamber of Deputies, and let us not send this signal to our citizens. Here I have a big appeal towards the Minister of Health. If we want the vaccination to be successful in the Czech Republic - and I am convinced that vaccination is an important tool in the fight against COVID-19 - we now need to prepare the vaccination very patiently, non-violently for the public, with a clear vaccination plan, that the public will be familiar with how the vaccine is to be used, how the vaccination is to be used, how it will practically be done, and I very much ask that the campaign that needs to be in the next few weeks be understood to preserve the volunteer, the voluntary decision whether one wants to be vaccinated or not, and to prevent the spread of certain alarm messages that are here. So, to conclude, we will support vaccination precisely because it will be voluntary, we stress that it must not be discriminatory, and I very much appeal that we do not play judge here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies in which the vaccine is or is not safe, but that we make political decisions here, which the public of this country will believe, and that we let citizens decide freely whether they will be vaccinated or not. And if I can say my experience, and now I will speak as a doctor and as a citizen of this country, I will be vaccinated. I'm gonna get inoculated, and I'm gonna admit that I've been vaccinated against the flu once in history, but I'm gonna get inoculated against this disease, not because of myself as a person, but because I have vulnerable people around me. I've got my daddy, who's got a lot of diseases, I've got a lot of others. I move myself as a paramedic in that shaky area of covid patients, and if there's anything that matters to me, so that I can protect my loved ones, protect my patients, and that's why I'm getting inoculated, and that's why my family gets inoculated. It's my free decision, I certainly don't force it on anyone, but it's also necessary to look at it with the optics of the fact that each of us has to decide for himself. Let us give this chance to our citizens, let them decide voluntarily, but let us not impose opinions on them either from this side or from the other side. It's really up to them, and we should just prepare the land for their decision to be truly free. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u95	Thank you. There are still two applications for the general debate. First of all, Mr Václav Klaus will speak because the written application takes precedence, then Mrs Olga Richterová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u96	Hello, we discussed briefly with our colleagues, we followed the whole debate very closely, and I would like to introduce you to the position of the Tricolore on this law. The diction of the original law seemed fine to us, but we are very sensitive to the atmosphere that some of your Members and some ministers have created around it, which brings fear to many citizens that this vaccination will be enforced with some incentives, better quality of life, possibilities, etc. I mean, what I followed in the amendments did not torpedo the godly intention of the law, i.e. my position and the position of the Tricolore is that if Mrs Maříková's amendment is not approved, you are sending a signal that you do not mean it and that what a part of the Members here are really afraid of is at risk, and in this case we will not vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u97	Thank you. Mrs Olga Richterová, at this time, the last one entered into the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u98	Thank you for the floor. Just very briefly for the pirát. We originally wanted the compensation to be included, so it did. We insist on the principle of volunteering like everyone else here, which is clearly declared, there is no problem. What we are only interested in is practical questions. Because it's not actually just a few million people voluntarily inoculating. So this practical plan to do it, plus if there's actually the need to cool down at minus 70 degrees, it's just going to be very difficult, and it's going to actually make us think that we're going to have to have the capacity because they're going to need two doses of 750 thousand vaccinated a week. So I just want to show on this that we're dealing with how we're practically going to handle this as a country, and especially how this is going to be done by the Ministry. As far as the amendments are concerned, we will vote in favour of the volunteer because it is okay to declare it, but we stress that it simply follows from the legal order as it was written, that is obvious and would not necessarily be necessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u99	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? No one's reporting, I'm done with the general debate. Interested in the final words? He does not have the Minister, the rapporteur. I am therefore opening up a detailed debate. Mrs Karla Maříková is the first to sign up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is recorded in the system as House document 7038, and I would like to ask you, colleagues and colleagues, to support it across the political spectrum. Let us finally bring to society the peace of mind that they will be free to decide without any pressure being imposed on them, whether they will be vaccinated or not. I myself am not opposed to vaccination, but I can now say that I do not know if I will be vaccinated against covid. But if I make that choice one day, I don't want it to be because I'm just being put at a disadvantage. And give this certainty to the citizens as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u101	Thank you. Mr Lubomír Volný and Mr Leo Luzar will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u102	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to sign up for our amendments. I hope somebody's got the number under which it's written, one second, I've already described where it is today. The amendment is that vaccination is voluntary, vaccination must not be enforced in any way or subject to vaccination to the exercise of fundamental human rights and freedoms. The existing paragraphs are being numbered. I presented the reasoning in the general debate and it is an amendment under number 7045. I would once again like to ask my fellow Members to support one of these amendments, especially if they want to create a positive mood in society towards the highest possible vaccination rate with the vaccine against COVID-19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u103	Thank you. Member Leo Luzar. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u104	Thank you for the floor, I'll just sign up in detail for House press 7043. [[document]] And then I would ask the Minister to answer the questions we asked in his final words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u105	Have a nice noon. This was the last application for a speech in a detailed debate. I therefore conclude a detailed debate and ask whether there is an interest in the final words. Minister Jan Blatný. [[An application from the diaper.]] Yeah, you still got it? Again, with priority rights, but I've already completed the detailed, and now you with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The YES Club will take five minutes before the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u107	Five minutes? Yes, so I'm putting out a break and I'll see you at 12.06. [[Act suspended from 12.01. to 12.07.]] There's been a break. I, therefore, have concluded a detailed debate. There was a performance... Mrs Valachová replacement card number 17. Now I ask whether the Minister of Health Jan Blatný or the rapporteur, Věra Adámková, is interested in final words. Interested? So the minister will speak with the final word. Please, Minister. Final word after second reading, okay? There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just going to sum up that this is a law on the reimbursement of vaccinations, there's no way that she doesn't question her volunteering, and I'm pointing out that it's necessary for us to start vaccinating. Without this law, vaccination will not be possible. Therefore, from my point of view, I consider the amendments supplementing the positions on volunteering to be redundant, however I understand them. Again, I repeat that this is indeed a law that does not limit this in any way. And let me just point out that an amendment that speaks of a common counter-selection of a distributor could result in seven insurance companies deciding at a ratio of 4:3 which could prolong or impede the agreement. So I consider this proposal to be a proposal that could cause problems in buying a vaccine of its own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u109	So I am ending the second reading of this proposal and I am just going to ask you in plenary because I have the information that originally from the Gremium was an agreement that first the second reading of the legislative emergency will take place and then we will return to the third reading, however, if you do not mind, because the rapporteur is prepared, as I have informed, so we can proceed and allow us to do so under Rule 99 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 7 to the third reading immediately. So if there's no objection? I don't see any objection. [[12.10 hours]] For the purposes of Article 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the following definitions shall apply: 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act may follow in the short term the third reading of the draft law immediately after reading the second, I am initiating the third reading of the submitted Government Bill and I expect that the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mrs Věra Adámková, will follow along with me from the rapporteur's table the debate which I hereby open. Anyone reporting for the debate? Nobody checks in, so I'm done with the debate. I ask again if there is interest in final words. The rapporteur and the minister? [[They don't want to get out.]] You already said what you wanted. So I ask the rapporteur, Mrs Věra Adámková, to introduce us to the voting procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u110	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate that has been held, because by this we have all heard what we are going to vote on, very freshly, and then I will limit myself only to repeating, which was the promoter, so that you can realise which amendment is being proposed. The procedure is, of course, in agreement with our legislation. Legitimately, no one has read the technical changes, designed them. Then we have three amendments. The first amendment is the amendment by Mrs Maříková, read under number 7038 and we have heard all the discussions on it. The next is the amendment by Mr Luzar, read into the system under number 7043. And the last is the amendment tabled by the main petitioner, Mr Volný, and the number is 7045. We will vote separately and then we will vote on the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u111	Thank you. I'm gonna go ahead and vote for the procedure. Did I hear a knock or didn't I hear a knock? [[Yes.]] I heard. So I'm gonna check you all out. Log in again with your voting cards. I see no one's making it to the O.R. So who's in favour of the proposed procedure? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 112, 95 Members signed up, against 94, against none. The draft procedure has been accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u112	The next is Mrs Maříková's amendment as the main speaker and we have heard her debate. So please, we would vote on Mrs Maříková's amendment and others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u113	The Minister's position? [[I can't hear you.]] Turn on your microphone, please, Minister. [[Minister Blatný: Inconvenient.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 113, 95 Members registered, for 47, against 4. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u114	The next is the amendment by Mr Luzar, number 7043 -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u115	Wait, check for votes. Voting number 113. [[Control in progress.]] You okay? [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u116	So please, I'll read it again. We will now vote on the amendment, under number 7043 in the system, Mr Luzar, and it was an insurance agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u117	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 114, 96 Members signed up for 19, against 13. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u118	And the last amendment is an amendment in the 7045 system, the main promoter of the Free Member, where it is once again a voluntary vaccination.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u119	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 115, 97 Members registered for 29 against 13. The motion was denied. So, rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u120	Thank you. And now we would vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u121	There. All proposals have been voted on, so we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's proposal for a law on the distribution of medicinal products containing vaccines for vaccination against COVID-19 disease, on the compensation of the damage caused to vaccinated persons by these medicinal products and on the amendment of Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, according to House Press 1102, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 116 entered 97 Members, for 78, against 15. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank the rapporteur and the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u122	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-003-001.u123	Let's go to the point.
