ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u1	1. Government bill on special voting methods in elections to regional councils and the Senate in 2020 /German press 971/ - shortened negotiations We should assess pursuant to Article 99 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5 whether the conditions for the examination of the said law are in a short hearing. I'm opening the debate. [[Call off the microphone.]] A shortcut or a point? So no one applies for a shortcut. I'm sorry, it's so noisy in here. And I have opened up a debate on whether there is a state of legislative emergency for the press 971. No one's really coming forward. I'm done with the debate. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's draft law on special voting methods in elections to regional councils and the Senate in 2020, the House's press 971, in a short hearing. I've started voting number 8 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 8 of the present 140 for 120, against no one. The motion for a resolution has been approved. I can therefore open this government bill on special voting methods in elections to regional councils and the Senate in 2020, House press 971. The proposed proposal will be presented by Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček, who is already at the rapporteur's table. I also thank Marek Výborný, who is the rapporteur for this press, for taking the position at the rapporteur's table. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Colleagues, Let me briefly present the draft law on special voting methods for regional councils and the Senate in 2020. As you already know, according to current electoral laws, quarantine as one of the measures leading to restrictions on personal freedom for reasons of the protection of people's health is an obstacle to the right to vote. The persons in quarantine are therefore not entitled to vote. However, the current electoral laws did not count on the pandemic situation that occurred in connection with the spread of COVID-19 disease. The proposed bill is intended to allow for the vote in the autumn elections to regional councils and to the Senate for persons with an ordered quarantine or isolation due to public health against covid disease. Voters entitled to quarantine or isolation will be able to use only special voting methods, either voting at the polling post, the so-called electoral drive-in, the vote at the residence facility that has been closed, and voting in the special ballot box. These special voting methods will also allow eligible voters to vote in a local or, where appropriate, regional referendum if they are held in parallel with the elections to regional or Senate representatives. In view of the exceptional situation, the need for a rapid solution and the fact that the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, in this case the active electoral right of a significant number of voters, are fundamentally threatened, the President of the House, at the request of the Government, has declared a state of legislative emergency for the discussion of the bill, and at the same time decided that it will be discussed in a shortened hearing. The acquisition of the effectiveness of the law is proposed on the date of its publication in the Collection of Laws, which allows the fact that the draft law is being discussed in a state of legislative emergency. I would like to thank all the representatives of the political parties from this place for their constructive approach to solving this problem and how they actively participated in the several round tables that we led at the Ministry of the Interior, which resulted in this very draft law. And I believe it will pass smoothly through the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u3	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček. The Constitutional Legal Committee, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the President's decision, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as Parliament's press 971/1. I will now ask that the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mr Výborný, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of this proposal in the committee and of any possible amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Vice Prime Minister, Government, fellow Members, colleagues, I will then keep a few of my remarks for the general debate. Now I really just want to say, in the role of the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, that the House Press 971 was delivered to the constitutionally-legal committee, which discussed it at its 66th meeting on 18 August 2020 and adopted the following resolution: The Constitutional Legal Committee proposes to Parliament's Chamber of Deputies to hold a general debate on the bill. Secondly, secondly, it proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to hold a detailed debate on all parts of the bill. Thirdly, it proposes that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies close its negotiations not later than 24 hours on 19 August 2020. Fourthly, it recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the proposal. The Constitutional and Legal Committee discussed the draft law in the version approved by the Government of the Czech Republic. There are currently three amendments made by Vice-President Pikal in the system, who was present yesterday at the meeting of the Constitutional Legal Committee. The concept of the three amendments was presented there. However, given that we were in a time frame and the amendments were logically put on the table in view of the legislative emergency negotiations, we did not comment on these amendments by the constitutionally-legal committee. So much intelligence for the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. We will now decide whether to hold a general debate by voting number 9, because it has been proposed by the resolution that I have launched. I ask who is in favour of having a general debate. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number nine. Of the 137 for 82 present, against no one. The decision has been made, which means that we will have both a general and a detailed debate. I am now opening up a debate in which I first have four priority rights, including the rights of the MPs, that is to say, Mr Kubíček, Vice-President Okamura, Vice-President Pikal, Mrs Černochová, who will speak with the opinion of the ODS. Now, then, Mr Kubíček. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a reduction in the deadline for Members to speak in a general and detailed debate for five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u7	Okay. This is a procedural proposal that we will decide in the vote number 10 that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 10. Of the present 136 for 76, against 15. The motion was accepted. Now, then, Vice-President Tomio Okamura, Vice-President Pikal will be ready. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that, after the first unconstitutional ideas and considerations of the Minister of the Interior, Hamáček of the ČSSD, that people in quarantine will not vote in the October elections, the government has recovered and, on the basis of criticism and substantive proposals, citizens will be able to take part in the elections. Since the beginning, the SPD has advocated that the right to vote should not be limited to citizens, and vice versa, that the State and the Ministry invent such variants in cooperation with experts, so that the maximum number of people who wish to participate could participate, even if they were quarantined. So we are glad that we were able to explain this to this government and change the original views that Minister Hamáček had. Now we have a law on the table that basically brings about a change in the fact that there will be a special quarantine electoral commission in the regions that will select ballots for the diseased places and from the people in quarantine. That maybe the main revolution is taking place in the option of voting out of a motor vehicle. We, as the SPD movement, clearly refused to vote through an agent during the debate, because voting rights are direct and non-transferable. And, of course, there is no direct guarantee that if someone were to be empowered, the agent would actually vote in accordance with the principal's wishes. We also rejected the possibility of a correspondence vote because there may be manipulation of ballots, for example, the last presidential election in Austria, where they even had to be annulled and repeated precisely because of the problems with the correspondence option. Members of the SPD will support the proposal for this law because these comments have also been incorporated there. We will also support this, including the proposal to increase the remuneration of members of the district electoral committees by CZK 500. It is a bit of a different case, but in connection with the elections, I must mention that there has been a draft SPD referendum law here for three years. Nobody else wants to do this. At the same time, direct democracy in the form of referendums works throughout the planet, including the US, where national votes are being put to the exclusion of politicians and, for example, the amount of taxes. And studies show that US states that have a higher degree of direct democracy have both a higher level of satisfaction for the population and greater efficiency for government. And, of course, there are not only two countries in the European Union that have a referendum law: Cyprus and the Czech Republic. But our politicians, and especially the pro-brussels, are going to pretend that the referendum is something that doesn't belong to us, and it's just some Swiss experiment that populist Okamura is proposing in quotes here. No, on the contrary. We are a major undemocratic exception to the European standard in the Union. And it is ruthless that what we are promoting democracy and referendums call us pseudo-democrats as non-democrats, and it is precisely these Czech political and journalistic elites who actually prevent the introduction of democracy the most. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u9	I thank Vice-President Okamur. Now Vice-President Pikal. A colleague of mine, Černochová, will be ready. Vice-President, just a moment. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček came forward with a factual remark. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u10	Thank you. I won't hold up. I, for starters, thanked all those who participated in the creation of this law, but I have to rely on the words of my colleague Okamura on some of my unconstitutional intentions. I would like to say to my colleague that the electoral law, both the elections to regional councils and the Senate, has the possibility of excluding someone who is in isolation from the elections from the beginning throughout the period of validity. And there have been several elections under this law. They weren't attacked. And he didn't attack them for logical reasons, because even after the adoption of this law, there will be cases where some citizens will not be allowed to vote because they simply have a disease that is highly contagious. It could be tuberculosis, it could be jaundice. And that's why the legislator put this into the law. And certainly the legislator was not led by any unconstitutional motives, but he followed the effort to protect the population.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u11	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Okamura, Vice-President, has now made a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I would only respond to the Minister. Yes, you're right it's in the law. There was, of course, a difference in the fact that it concerned when something was local, so it's for these cases. The government's measures here are flat, so here they would really be cheating with the final result of the election, especially with the lower vote. That's why I was struck by your original statements when you were thinking about delaying the election, or that people couldn't participate in the election, which, in the case of the current government measures, would be quite a mass matter. So it seemed wrong to us that instead of thinking about how to allow people to vote and invent it, in quotation marks, at the Ministry, you were thinking about how they couldn't vote, and you came up with the option. However, to be constructive, I also want to thank you for finally meeting as representatives of the political parties at that table, that the debate was truly constructive in the final, that we found a compromise there very quickly, I must stress that the communication was very rapid and I think it was helpful and good, and that we have a consensual proposal here. So that's what I'd like to say for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u13	I also thank you for keeping time on the point of fact. And now, Vice-President Pikal, my colleague Černochová will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I'm going to say a little bit about the debate that's already going on here. Indeed, it is true that the original speech was aimed at some wide-ranging restriction on electoral rights. It is also true that restrictions on the right to vote for reasons of protection of life and health are commonly foreseen. However, this is mostly about individuals. We are now in a situation where thousands, perhaps tens of thousands of people and voters would be involved, which would necessarily lead to changes in electoral results, especially in Senate elections, where dozens of votes are low to decide which of these candidates will look into the second round. Indeed, any local outbreak or restriction could lead to a complete change in those elections, which would then create problems in any possible subsequent reviews or questioning legitimacy. So I am glad that it was possible to find this proposal based on pressure from the professional public and the opposition. [[11.00 hours]] I will also point out that we originally proposed to address this by a correspondence option, because that was the way other states have dealt with it, for example Poland has successfully used the newly introduced correspondence option in the President's election of 28. 6. 2020 and in the second round 12. 7. 2020. A good example is also Germany, which has a similar legal system to ours and allows it to normally vote in correspondence without restrictions. And, for example, in Bavaria, this year's election due to coronavirus took place in a purely correspondence manner. Similarly, South Korea, which is one of the countries that best manage the epidemic, has allowed correspondence votes to be taken by those in quarantine, in the elections that took place 15. 4. So the examples from abroad are, it's an option. On the contrary, the Czech Republic is the exception within the European Union, where only us and the states of the Balkan peninsula are among those who do not have an established correspondence choice in any way in any election. After all, the correspondence option is now proposed in the election law, which now rests on the government, and we are all waiting for it to get here. As for the frauds mentioned in the elections in Austria, I would like to mention there that the frauds, the asking for ballots without the will and knowledge of the electorate themselves, are linked to the Party of free Austria, with which the Tomio Okamura movement shares the European group, and the representatives of the Greens, for example, have drawn attention to these matters. I mean, it's the debate that's going on here. Anyway, back to the law we have on the table. I welcome him again and we will support him because it is a way to allow as many voters as possible who are in quarantine or isolation to participate in these elections so that they can exercise their right to vote, and so that we least distort the election results with the current situation. That is why the greatest importance will be the sense of the safety of voters and the measures on the ordinary precinct electoral committees, because there will be a large majority of voters involved. And as I have already been assured from the Ministry and as the proposal is prepared, this concerns, in particular, the provision of protective aids for members of the precinct electoral committees. And the fact that the state will pay them off, that is, that there are enough drapes, shields, disinfectants, measures in those places and in front of the polling rooms, that seems essential to us all to be able to vote safely and confidently. Everybody go. I think those measures will be ensured as we are promised. As far as the amendments are concerned, as I mentioned, these are some small things that we think would support a better option for voters to participate. First of all, we propose, or I propose to supplement the provision that acts necessary for the exercise of the right to vote under this law are excluded, that is, if someone decides to use the option to vote for drive-in, then if he meets someone on the way, he will meet him in the course of those acts necessary to decide that it is not a violation of the ordered quarantine or isolation. This is my proposal with regard to House document 6080, which we are putting forward in this way. You all have it at your disposal, it was sent to your e-mail boxes, and, as mentioned, it was introduced to the Constitutional and Legal Committee, which was held yesterday. There were also some comments on the other proposals, which I tried to work on in the version I am presenting today. The next proposal is my House document 6079. It's a solution to a situation where someone asks for a vote in that portable special ballot box, but it won't be done with his knowledge, and he'll normally come to the precinct election committee and there he'll know that someone asked for a vote in that special portable box. I was assured by the Ministry of the Interior that in such cases the instructions on how these precinct electoral committees should proceed are prepared, but this does not result from the diction of the law, so I took the liberty of proposing an amendment to the wording of the law so that the diction of the law corresponds to that, that is, to transmit information about someone voting in a portable ballot box, to immediately transfer it to those precinct electoral committees and to have the communication going on. So this is House Document 6079. And the last of these three proposals is once again a minor amendment concerning the possibility of voting in those special ballot points, which means primarily in those drive-in voting places, but also in those special urns, not only for the ID card, but also for the passport, because the passport vote is normally allowed to citizens of the Czech Republic in the course of the vote, whether it concerns Senate or regional elections. And the objection that has been raised against this is that the special electoral commission cannot verify its permanent residence afterwards. However, the special electoral commission has at its disposal - or the special voting commission, to be precise - the list of persons who are in quarantine, including the very data on the permanent residence, and if these are those cases where the elector is not on the list, because such cases will exist, because not everyone who is to be issued a certificate from the doctor that he is in quarantine will also be listed in one of those lists, whether it is a source from county health stations or a source from an eIncompetent, because not everyone is an employee, so in such a case, the electorate is in charge of proving, for example, the identity card. But I think it should be in the power of our state and our army to establish those 90 positions so that they can have access to the basic registers and prove it there in the rare cases. So these are my designs. I thank you for your attention and believe that the elections will in any case take place properly and in all possible ways, so that we can all safely exercise our basic civil rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u15	I thank Mr Pikal. Now, Mrs Jana Černochová. Mr. Výborný will be prepared. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that after the initial peripetia we are discussing this amendment today, which will therefore allow people who are in quarantine, whether because they are ill or only in preventive quarantine, to vote in the forthcoming regional and senate elections. The possibility of free participation in elections is a fundamental right in democracy, citizens must be able to apply it and the state that commands them to quarantine must have ways of allowing them to do so. I would like to thank the Ministry of the Interior for finally taking the job and showing a certain degree of creativity and finding ways to resolve the current situation with full restrictions due to coronavirus. Personally, I cannot imagine that the State would ostracize a part of society and deny it a de facto administrative decision by the Constitution and by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms guaranteed the right to vote, especially when we think that this group can be really numerous. I understand that the current situation is new to all of us in many respects, but I want to reiterate here that we have been dealing with pandemics for many months, that elections are sound, that their term is known for a long time and that there was really a lot of time to deal with this situation. Those considerations on the restrictions on electoral rights that have been here have been totally inappropriate and should never be repeated again. On the contrary, I would like to call for us to start working at this point on a universal solution to similar situations, because the law that we are discussing here today is one-off and similar situations can be repeated. [[11.10 hours]] Although I acknowledge that this law is a starting point for the current situation, that it has been discussed with representatives of all political parties and that it brings solutions, I would nevertheless like to express some discontent with one aspect of it, which unfortunately is slowly becoming a sort of norm, and that is the involvement of our army. As Chairman of the Defence Committee, I would like to underline that the main task of the military is to defend our country against military dangers, support our foreign policy interests abroad and, of course, helping internal security forces if they cannot cope with the situation. Unfortunately, it is quite common for an army to be called wherever no one else wants to be. Not only in recent months, I have a very bad feeling that we're putting our soldiers in the position of a maid for everything. It started in Vrbětice, where soldiers have been subservient to the role of security agency for weeks. Furthermore, I can recall in manipulating military specials into tracking action by Mr Šlacht and the Customs Administration, or so-called smart quarantine, in which unfortunately there is also no other clever state component that can manage this project better. I'm really concerned that the state is throwing everything on the shoulders of the army that it doesn't otherwise know, and I warn you about getting used to it. We are not in a situation where it is possible to fundamentally intervene in this bill. I know that, but I must say out loud here that I am very concerned that the voting commission is to be mostly made up of soldiers of the Army of the Czech Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, this is wrong not only because the army is becoming a mentioned maid for everything, but also in principle. Elections and votes are purely a civil process, a process that the military has nothing to interfere with, or should be interfered with at least. I'm surprised that this doesn't bother the Home Secretary, that it doesn't bother the Prime Minister, that it doesn't bother the Secretary of Defense and other members of the government. Because if they didn't mind, it might not have been like this in the proposal, there might have been another solution. And so that you don't blame me for just criticizing and not suggesting a solution, so out of the blue, and without preparation, I wonder why to do this task, Minister Hamáček, perhaps the Ministry of the Interior will not use, for example, voluntary firefighters, on whom the Ministry of the Interior can easily touch, in quotation marks, and who are regionally placed much better than the Army of the Czech Republic. I therefore want to call on the government from this place to seek other solutions for similar tasks. I would like to call on the Minister of Defence not to be so easy on the military's hands with demands for any work that comes to hand and the Minister of the Interior not to abuse the helpfulness and willingness of military aid. I won't comment on his remarks about the flying museum. The easiest solution isn't always the best, and I just wouldn't like the soldiers to be those who will always be there for the work that no one else wants to do because of their obedience and dedication to their country's service. It's not meant to be, and we should all be aware of it here. In conclusion, I would just like to remind you, and I believe that the Ministry of the Interior also has this in mind, that we should not have the risks associated with this law in relation to the choices solved. I think the Minister knows, too. In addition to this legislation, concerning the cases of voters placed under quarantine, it will be necessary to ensure the safety and health of all others who will vote in a standard manner, and in particular those who will be members of the standard electoral committees. Here I also welcome the increase in the contribution, because actually getting people into electoral committees is a problem under normal circumstances, let alone today, when some people are really afraid. I therefore believe that the Ministry of the Interior will ensure appropriate sanitary measures in those standard polling rooms, so that the spread of the disease is eliminated as much as possible and that neither voters nor those in charge of organising the elections are at risk. Thank you for your attention. The citizens' Democrats will support this proposal, but please take to heart my words about the deployment of the Army of the Czech Republic. This really does not please me, and it does not please me because there really are other, more viable, more democratic, even for citizens more acceptable solutions than when they go to vote and they see people in uniforms. That can really make someone feel a little scary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u17	Thank you, Mrs Černochová. I now have two factual and, respectively, three factual points. First Minister of the Interior and Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček, then Mrs Gajdůšková and the Minister of Defence - also de facto. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u18	Thank you. Very briefly on the floor. That's not true. There was nothing we could do about it. We've been debating for several weeks, and the ODS representative, I suspect it was a colleague of Kupka, he was present at the meeting, and no criticism of the military's deployment was heard by the ODS, so if you came up with your idea, we might have discussed it, but I think we'd have come to the same conclusion that the only way to deploy an army is the only way. We, colleague Kupka, will confirm this, are looking for a way to best secure the special electoral commission from the point of view of safeguards. I point out that manipulating protective equipment is not an easy thing to do. The most contamination occurs when dressing and undressing. And it seemed logical to us to use members of the Army of the Czech Republic. And I want to thank the Department of Defense and the Army for that. Putting volunteer firefighters in there seems very complicated to me, given the IZS law. Of course, we could have pulled the firemen off the exits, but that didn't seem reasonable. And if we put police officers on the electoral committees, someone could talk about Bělorusko. So I think we've found a solution that's adequate. Again, I say that the military has approached this in a kind way, and I do not think that by putting our soldiers on those committees, we would scare our citizens. The army has very high public support, and I don't think our people are running from it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u19	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková, then the Minister of Defence. You have the floor, Madame, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u20	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, Government, I must say that unlike my colleague Černochová, I am pleased that the Army of the Czech Republic is willing not only to go on missions but to participate and help within the Czech Republic where it is needed. And I would like to thank you very, very much for the fact that our soldiers have actually engaged in the toughest phase of the pandemic and that they are willing to help even now. And a second note to the vrbětice. You know he blew up an ammunition warehouse. By the way, it's the territory of the Army of the Czech Republic. But the army was only there for a while. And up until now, six years ago, that's where the Police of the Czech Republic are guarding, and there are paramedics. By the way, for cops, it's bound almost a third of their capacity all the time. They'd need to be on the streets. So it's just about the point that anyone should or shouldn't do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, then, the de facto remark of Secretary of Defense Lubomír Metnar. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond here to some of these statements and to some of the words that have been said here. I fundamentally reject that the military would be abused or abused as part of the fight against coronavirus. I reject the words that she would be a maid for anything. I want to thank the soldiers and other IZS files here very clearly. They do excellent, excellent and professional work. So, as Minister, these words are inadmissible to me, and I don't want to speculate about that here. As for deployment, now, help. We're not in a normal situation. That's why the deployment took place. It's not a normal situation for them to take place. We have had a coronavirus crisis here for several months, and the army, soldiers of the Army of the Czech Republic, have been helping the IZS files. Furthermore, I would like to emphasise that the representatives of the army are from the beginning in all preparations, as was the case now, with the Ministry of the Interior for all preparations for the upcoming measures. And so, even now, it has been a special way of voting for regional and senate elections. That's for me in a relationship with the military. And once again, let me thank not only the soldiers, but also the other members for the preparation for the subsequent regional and senate elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more point in fact, Mr. Pavel Žáček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u24	Thank you for the floor. I would also really appreciate the situation in which we're going to deploy an army. I realize that we are in an exceptional situation, but I am certainly inclined to the words of my colleague, Mr Černochová, Chairman of the Defence Committee, to weigh this really on the scales. I don't know, and I don't know another state that's going to subpoena the inadequacy of its public administration and its civilian structures. And I certainly would not like us to become the only one in our European space. I think we need to find a solution. I would quite like the Home Secretary to tell us if he was dealing with any other situation, if there was any other alternative. Because in this situation, I consider the military to be a really extreme solution. I think it may turn against her someday, and I would very much hate to be a member of the Defence Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. We will continue with the debate by speaking to Mr Excellent, preparing Dominik Feri.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will not comment on the involvement of the Army of the Czech Republic, but I will return very briefly to the bill in general and give an opinion for the KDU-ČSL. Yes, it is essential, despite the initial perhaps not because of the Ministry of the Interior, to address the possibility of voting for persons in quarantine during these autumn elections, that it was finally possible to persuade the government and the Minister to draw up this bill, which ad hoc for this case deals with Senate and Regional elections on 2nd and 3rd October, then in the second round of the Senate elections this year. It's crucial, it's important, because of course we're not in a situation where we're dealing with units of people in quarantine. By the way, for them, of course, the impossibility of taking part in the vote remains to be maintained. But today, when we see the whole epidemiology situation, we have no idea if those people in quarantine are going to be 5,000 in September, 10,000 or maybe 20,000 in September. And from the experience of previous, mainly Senate elections, we know that there are really voting units deciding on the results here, and therefore it is good that this fundamental democratic right, namely the right to participate in the elections, should be maintained as far as possible. Although I stress again, it will not be a hundred percent, but people who will be quarantined because of disease or possibly suspected COVID-19 disease will have this right. I am pleased and thank the Minister of the Interior for the fact that the preparation really went on consensually, across the political parties, there were representatives of all member clubs at those meetings, and this has made it possible for example. a very controversial possibility of voting by means of a representative from this proposal and we do not have to deal with any further amendments here today. I am also glad that the law does not contain only a solution for the possibility of participation in elections for persons in quarantine, but also that it contains an increase in the membership of district electoral committees, an increase in remuneration. This is important because, of course, elections need to be administratively secured and we know that interest in participation in committees is not what. It's kind of a minimal motivational component. I thank the Government and the Ministry of the Interior for hearing these proposals as well. However, let me mention one more thing when we are discussing this issue. This has to do with the possibility of a possible correspondence election, because it would, of course, also address this situation of persons in quarantine, but it is also a question of correspondence elections for Czech citizens residing abroad. And I'll remind you that for more than a year now, here in the House, there's a revised bill on correspondence choices. But at the same time, we were assured by the government and the Minister that the correspondence option in the minimum version, i.e. for persons residing abroad, would include a new draft election management law. I would like very strongly here, because the next elections are waiting for us at the latest in the autumn of 2021, and we know how often the legislative process is very stumbled on at the Parliament of the Czech Republic, so I would like to call on and ask the Minister and the Government of the Czech Republic to make a law which, according to my information, has been heard by the Deputy Minister yesterday at the meeting of the Constitutional-Legal Committee, this bill has been discussed by the Legislative Council of the Government, ready to discuss the Government and move here to the Chamber of Deputies, so I would like to urge very strongly that this Act on the Administration of Elections should be discussed immediately by the Government and moved to the legislative process on the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Because in this law, the things that are being discussed here today are subject to this ad hoc law, which is only approved for the autumn elections in 2020, i.e. regional and senate elections. Alternatively, additional ones and the like, but not for any other. And I think that on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies within the framework of the first, second reading, we are also able to reflect the experience of these ways of voting by persons in quarantine in October of this year and, if necessary, implement some experience into the Act on the Administration of Elections. But please make it really legislative, let's move it out of the government as quickly as possible. I will therefore take the liberty of reading the accompanying resolution, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to submit to the Chamber, by the end of September 2020 at the latest, a proposal for a law on the management of elections, which will include a solution to the so-called election. correspondence choices'. Thank you and the bill as such will be supported by the KDU-ČSL.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u27	Thank you, Mr Excellent. Mr Dominik Feri's speech now. Mr Stanislav Grospič will be prepared, who also delivered an apology for today's meeting at 13:00 for family reasons. My colleague Feri has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear members of the government present, let us pour ourselves some pure wine, please. A month ago, the Home Office openly declared that whoever was quarantined would lose his right to vote. Today we have a bill that allows people to vote in quarantine. But without pressure from the public and without pressure from us as opposition MPs, the proposal would not be here. That's a. Who says a, should say B. And that B is a commendation towards the Minister and towards the Interior Ministry's apparatus...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u29	I understand. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for peace in the House! The presence is not so great that we cannot maintain the level of noise that the person to whom the word has been given is able to overcome to feel at least dignified listening. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u30	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister and the Interior Minister, who was able to prepare a decent legislative proposal in a relatively short period of time. The proposal is based on a political consensus, and it was based on the will to allow people to vote in their own way. So that they have the freedom to vote, so that everyone who wants to vote can vote. Someone can vote drive-in, car. Whoever doesn't have a car, at one point it seemed like it was supposed to be a priority choice, but everyone doesn't have a car, can use special portable ballot boxes. [[11.30 hours]] Already at the meeting with the Minister of the Interior, I pointed out that it is possible that this option will be the most used, because it is very comfortable. You call the county office, you order, you say, "Look, I'm in quarantine, I want someone to come to me." And it could be thousands of people who will have to be served. Mr. Deputy Mlsna said at the time that the Ministry of the Interior is able to ensure coordination, it is able to ensure that these mobile electoral committees can be regrouped so that everyone can exercise their active right to vote. And I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior whether he could keep us informed, first of all, about the number of people involved, because it was quite openly said at the meeting: we do not know, we do not know how many people will be able to vote under this law, because the Ministry of Health is not quite communicating with us. I believe it's been removed. At the same time, it will inform us about the readiness and the abundance of protective equipment and all related matters, because I think that this is the most used option and is the most comfortable one for citizens. There are Members from all over the Czech Republic, and certainly some of you, when I mention some districts, such as Jesenicko or Šumava, these are districts that are very large, where there is a relatively scattered settlement and where there may be a big problem to get to even one voter into a remote community, which the right to vote should not be denied under any circumstances. The Act on the Administration of Elections has already been recalled here. The election management law was such a libation of the opposition, which has been trying for many years to call for correspondence elections. The correspondence option is a functional model, a functional model abroad. Of course, whoever rejects it can commit some cherry picking and say, look, here's a problem. But even in the normal classic elections, the problems happen too. But those countries generally don't give up correspondence elections. Now it's a very well-solved topic within the United States of America, and it's also a big political issue, but we've made a compromise. We said good, so if there is no political support for a general correspondence choice, that means that any one of us, whether in the Czech Republic or abroad, can vote in correspondence, so let's make a concession, let's at least allow those of us who live abroad. Very often, it is people who live abroad and organise themselves, for example, in compatriotic associations, those who show an extraordinary interest in the Czech Republic and often greater than some citizens who live with us. This is the interest in the running of public affairs, of what the Czech Republic will be like. I have noted within the Chamber of Deputies that a person living abroad has no right to vote, so the right should be denied, because it does not directly concern him. But I think that's a false attitude. If anyone has citizenship, he is certainly interested in the fate of his country, he can come back here sometime, his children can come back here sometime. And it is the election law that should allow this to happen, but it lies before the government. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, I asked the Deputy - and when will that be? And he says it's a political decision. That's a real political answer, so damn it, every decision we make here, every decision that's made within the ministry, within the government, is political, so let's make that political decision. And I believe that it will be possible to challenge the Minister, virtually. The government to pass the election management bill. It is a priority, and if we accept it, we will avoid the situation that we will have to meet here acutely, we will be writing on our knees some bill that may not be perfect and of such quality, and we will allow people who have the right to vote to participate in these elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u31	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Grospič will also speak in the debate, Mr Václav Klaus will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues, allow me to make a brief statement for the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia as well as for myself on the draft bill submitted. We see and also see for myself that there has been a positive attempt by the Ministry of the Interior to address the issue of participation in elections and the exercise of electoral rights as one of the most fundamental rights enshrined in our constitutional order for people who would be affected by quarantine, that is, actually, on the basis of COVID-19 disease now, they would not be allowed or, according to the interpretation, would not allow them to exercise electoral rights because they would put them in that category and other patients in terms of contagious diseases, such as those who have tuberculosis, hepatitis or other diseases. I also have to say a little bit in this context that I am glad that, in the end, one of the proposals that appeared in those working forms was abandoned, i.e. a vote on behalf, because there I think, despite trying to ensure the identity of two persons - the agent and the principal - was a number of questions unclear, it would be technically very difficult, but in the end, it would not be traceable in any way and conclusively evidence of the will of the principal against the agent, and it could lead to a number of disputes and to challenge the electoral results afterwards. I think so. However, what I consider to be serious from the point of view of the current draft law, which we have under the House press 971. First of all, I think it is necessary to realise that Pandořin's box opens with this in the form of two-track elections adapted for one body - regional council, or also for another - the Senate as one of the chambers of the Parliament of the Czech Republic with two laws. A general law applies and a special law applies here, which concerns a certain part, a group of citizens. This needs to be seen as a matter of high importance, which may technically ensure a certain category of citizens who would otherwise fall into that area of quarantine and could not exercise their right to vote, but, on the other hand, should not be a precedent for accessing future situations in the Czech Republic and enlist in the fact that, in future, we should always have general laws and then a parallel universal electoral law, which would say how to proceed in pandemic times or in other crisis situations. So here I would warn against this, and I would also like to open up a debate on how to implement the electoral law for elections that will await us in the course of the next year in advance, so that in this context we also remember this experience, which was certainly unexpected, and many other European states have also responded very differently, each one certainly according to its conscience with the intention to embrace and secure the right to vote, but we know that, for example, in Poland, the elections were not always simple and there are a number of litigations about the fulfilment of electoral rights there. So I just hope that by adopting this law, we will avoid these situations. In this context, I would also like to say that to some extent I welcome the three amendments that have so far been made and will be loaded, virtually. they are, because they actually give a little bit of an answer to the fact that we are separating one group of people from the area of quarantine, and this group of people might just be a group that, on the one hand, can exercise its right to vote, but on the other hand, could be affected for this exercise of the right to vote. So, in this context, I think that these are proposals that may slightly alleviate the question that hangs here in terms of interpretation and the constant implementation of this law. The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia will support this law, even if we think that it should be the way of a possible law on public health threats or the way of another, because it is not the happiest, and by not entering the exercise of active electoral law and not entering into restrictions, it is rather the opposite way of passive electoral law, so from this point of view we will support the draft of this law. [[11.40 hours]] I would just like to say once again here that we see this solution as not very happy, therefore, and we are concerned that the chosen solution option can really lead to litigation in the future, when citizens who are also quarantined, but because of another disease, not the disease of COVID-19, will need to demand that they too have the right to vote under a special regime, as will actually be happening here today and will be accepted in a special category of citizens, and therefore they have not been discriminated against or excluded from the electoral process, even if their number does not reach such a number as the number of persons affected by COVID-19, whether directly or by quarantine measures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u33	Thank you. Mr Václav Klaus will also be speaking in the debate and Mr František Vácha has signed up for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u34	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say that Members of the Tricolore movement will support this government bill, because we are actually convinced that the Constitution is the basis and the highest law in the Republic. Unlike various Eurohujers, we believe that international treaties are also superior, etc. And part of the Constitution is also the right to vote and to be elected. We believe that no hygienist or even Minister Vojtěch or Hamáček, as politicians, can decide which citizens vote and who do not vote. Honestly, we weren't too far away from watching the debate. And it is really thanks to almost the entire opposition that there has been such pressure that today we have a relatively consensual bill with which I think there is universal agreement. When we talk about the health problems and I have a word, I would like to say one thing, namely that there is absolutely no intelligent quarantine, virtually. it doesn't exist. Here we have been fed for several months by this floscule, and now we see in reality that the only measure taken has since September been the flat reposition of the drapes. When we talk about elections, I must also say that when we consider the dangers of health and democracy at one bowl, I think it is clear that the choice must be democracy. That we have an army, we have weapons, we send our soldiers down to the other side of the world to defend democracy. So the same thing is to come up again with a certain degree of low risk to the ballot box and vote and defend democracy with some sort of action. So this is my general opinion that all power comes from the people. I don't think the health risk is too big. We're cultural countries. There are almost never any queues in our polling rooms, let alone Senate elections or regional elections. That there's a certain level of risk for members of the electoral committees, that's true. But on the other hand, let's remember the salesman, the driver, and the many other workers who faced this here in March, April, etc. exactly the same, and no one asked them anything. So we also support the increase in remuneration for committee members. With regard to the amendments and the various challenges here, I would like to say here for the Tricolore movement that we will not fundamentally support any model of virtual elections, agents or correspondence elections, or a resolution encouraging the House to do so. Elections are direct. For example, when we're here in the House and we want to vote, you have to come here from the office, you don't send your assistant here or deliver a letter to Mr. Vondráček with a list of how you would like to vote. You must be physically present here. This debate, I think, is crucial. It's the opening of Pandořina's locker, which can end very badly. And that will certainly be a big argument in the House, because there are political parties that think it will bring them some extra votes, the voices of our countrymen abroad, etc., but we will certainly have this debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u35	Thank you. Mr František Vácha will speak in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, for the TOP-09 Club, I would like to state that we will support the Government's bill. I would like to thank the Minister and the Ministry of the Interior for having prepared the law, although at first it seemed that they would resist it, and that they also agreed to the opposition's proposals and that it was not just the drive-in that was concerned that the ownership of the vehicle would in some way not correspond entirely to the right to vote. However, I would have one question for the Minister, if he could calm my concerns. The law says that the committee, the special committee, who will be dating mobile urns, will be waiting at the door for ten minutes when the bell rings. He'll have to wait ten minutes. Ten minutes is a lot. I don't want to show it now because we only have five minutes for our show. But if you do the math, it's actually from seven to twenty-two hours on the first day. That means it's some, I think, 15 hours. It's seven o'clock on the second day. Those counties can extend the mobile urns for another three hours. The committee, if it waited ten minutes for each of the rightful voters - of course, he mentioned that there would also be transfers between the various voters, when it could take fifteen, twenty minutes. I think one of these committees will be able to bypass the election in those two days, plus those three hours, let's say 60 people tops. And now that we have quarantined today - I'm not sure if there are five or ten thousand citizens, but it's just thousands if you have enough of those special committees or alternate committees in case there are more cases in any region. I'd like that to be assured. And then I have one question that I'm probably opening Pandořin's locker with. But I'd like to ask what happens when the voter says the committee hasn't come to see him. The committee will, of course, have some minutes of her arrival, but now there's gonna be a voter who's gonna sign up at the county office, and the committee just won't be able to make it to that place. And I'm asking if the election is going to be nullified by that. I know you have Section 3 there, that the person who applied it has the right to vote. That means those who haven't applied him are probably not the voters. But if you have a system that maybe the committee will say, "Look, we're running late, we just can't get to the people we've been assigned," and in time, they'll inform the county or the competent authority to send a replacement to the mobile commission. That's my particular question. I'd like to know the answer to that. Otherwise, as I said in the beginning, we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u37	Thank you. Mr Martin Kupka will also speak in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, given that I have been involved in the work which results in the very proposal from the government, I would of course like to support it. But I also want to make a few comments on the preparation. There's no point in yelling at the fact that we have to meet at an emergency meeting, that the government could have prepared it sooner and not prepared it, which is why it does so at the last minute. The important thing is that it has succeeded in preventing the election from being easily challenged by anyone, that the state has not been able to deal with one of the fundamental constitutional principles, namely that democracy is based on free democratic elections and that the people of the Constitution have the right to vote. That's why the first sloppy statement that anyone in quarantine wouldn't be able to vote, of course, raised us. [[11.50 hours]] It's important that we now have a government bill on the table that brings the solution to the problem. We also pointed out during the negotiations that, for example, three and a half thousand people in quarantine were to be counted on one side. By that time, however, 5,000 people were already tested positively. It was clear that the numbers did not fit and that there would be a need to prepare for a situation which, even in numbers, could be more significant. We have come up with two concrete proposals: the creation of mobile committees to complement the fan of possibilities, and we have also come up with something that we still consider very important, and that is an increase in rewards for all members of the committees. We have experience, responses, terrain from smaller municipalities and cities, where it is really difficult to fill the electoral committee at all. He was a problem beyond the present difficult state. At a time when it will, of course, mean the application of protective equipment, difficult hygiene conditions for the Commission, it is important that the state makes it clear that it appreciates the involvement, the activity in favour of democratic elections. Therefore, I appreciate that we have managed to find a consensus in this and that this law also includes an increased reward for each member of the committee by 500 crowns. It's important so the elections can go well. We will also support the amendments which provide clarification on the conditions and should have really led to the risk of questioning the course of the elections as little as possible. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u39	Thank you. And in the debate, President Vít Rakušan will speak further. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u40	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, just a very brief opinion from the Mayors and Independents Club. For us, too, we would certainly like to appreciate the effort made by Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, which means that he has called representatives of all political parties together and we have been able to reach consensus at these two working meetings, which is on the table today, which will enable people to do what must simply be in the democratic world, that is, the right to vote. And so is the right to vote in a situation that may not be completely simple. At the same time, I think that our great task as Members and people active in politics is to give our citizens a clear message that it is possible to simply vote that elections in the Czech Republic will take place, that elections are safe and that there are methods for the exercise of voting rights by people who are currently in quarantine. We considered the original statements that were made at the end of July of this year to be very unfortunate, and that people in quarantine would not be able to vote. There was even a question in the media space whether elections could even be made. On the contrary, I think that returning to normal life will be the most helpful when we simply tell people that basic democratic mechanisms such as elections will simply take place, no matter what happens, and that we will clearly allow elections for people who will be among the sick or quarantined at the time. So appreciation for the agreement that took place, that those meetings, which were working and constructive, had taken place. But maybe let's be a little more careful in the statements that we're putting into public space, when first we scare the public a little bit, that it might not be, and then we come up with the solution. We consider this solution to be of good quality, as a compromise. We feel a little sorry for the starosta and the independent that the correspondence choice as a principle and the debate on it is postponed. We saw it as one of the other options that could expand the range of how to allow people in quarantine to vote. However, we accept that there is no majority agreement on this and, of course, we will support those proposals, including rational amendments specifying as STAN. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u41	Thank you. Is anyone else reporting for the general debate, please? No one is to be heard in the general debate, and I am done with the general debate. Interested in the final words? The Minister is interested in the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u42	Thank you very briefly. Because there has been a specific question from the honourable Member about the special committees. Of course, we will always know how many people are quarantined. So, with some qualified estimate, we're going to build the capacity of individual special committees. If it turns out that this needs to be strengthened somewhere during the elections, we will be able to do so. There's also the possibility of extending the three hours in that law. We believe that, as it is set, it should be manageable, provided, of course, that the numbers do not fall for the order. That would be a problem, of course, but that would probably be a problem for the whole course of the electoral process. And just one last comment on the military debate. I still want to confirm, after consulting experts, that it is not possible by law to call on this task units of voluntary firefighters because they have a clearly established activity by law. And a unit of volunteer firefighters, unlike the Fire Rescue Corps, cannot be assigned an extraordinary task. So the deployment of volunteer firefighters would be against the law. The only option from the point of view of the Ministry of the Interior are exit firefighters or police.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u43	Thank you. The rapporteur will not now speak with the final word. And we will proceed to a detailed debate, opening up a detailed debate. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal will be the first to speak in a detailed debate. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u44	Thank you, maybe the last. I am therefore speaking to remind you that, in accordance with the law, I have read my amendments. This is therefore House document 6078, which deals with the possibility of voting not only on the identity card but also on the passport in the special voting places. This is House document 6079, which is the thing that deals with communication between the Special Commission and the box and the ordinary district electoral commission. This is about those people who would be reported in an unverifiable way, and it would appear that the report wasn't okay, or that it didn't get to them that they were reported, to the voters. And this is the House document 6080, which is a proposal that clearly puts it on the equal footing that the actions necessary to exercise that right are not unlawful from the point of view of the quarantine or isolation that has been ordered. Thank you, that's all from me. You all have those suggestions at your disposal. Please be supportive, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u45	Thank you. Next, the rapporteur, Mr Výborný, will speak. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u46	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, I would like to sign up for the accompanying resolution, which I have justified in the general debate. The accompanying resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to submit to the Chamber a proposal by the end of September 2020 at the latest on the management of the elections, which will include the solution of the so-called correspondence election." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-08-19-ps2017-057-01-002-001.u47	Thank you. Anyone else interested in speaking in a detailed debate? No one's coming forward, I'm ending the debate in detail. There is no interest in the final words after a detailed debate. I therefore end the second reading of this proposal. At this point, we will not proceed directly to the third reading, I will interrupt this point and we will address the following point, so that we can be prepared for the vote on the amendments as well. Opening point number
