ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-003-005.u1	5. The draft law amending Act No. 159/2020 Sb., on compensation bonus in connection with crisis measures related to the occurrence of CORS CoV-2 /house print 850/2/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House press 850/3. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Šárka Jelínková among us and I ask that the Vice-President of the Government and Finance Minister Alena Schillerová speak for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and for the amendments tabled. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-003-005.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present a proposal for an amendment to the Compensation Bonus Act. This is a subject of extraordinary importance, because there is nothing less...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-003-005.u3	I understand, Madam Secretary, the situation is a bit light and it's too late. Nevertheless, I will ask my colleagues for more peace in the hall to pay attention to the statement presented.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-003-005.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Because we have nothing less to do than decide whether or not those who deserve it will get help. These are often people who are now largely dependent on the aid of the state, because they have received a minimum or no income from their business in recent months. They're people who don't get the 10th or 15th regular payouts on their account, but they still have to pay bills, rent, mortgage, or received invoices from suppliers. On the basis of my own knowledge from the last few days, I would like to say clearly that it is very difficult for affected entrepreneurs to understand how to make this aid through policy. My job today is to put all the cards on your desk the way they really are. So you can decide with the purest conscience. I will draw your attention to what concerns are most loudly presented by Mr.František Lukl, Stanislav Polčák and Jan Bartošek. Why I think it is right by this law today, in this place, to help our entrepreneurs together and fairly. I will remind you that the amendment to the Compensation Bonus Act extends the scope of this effective instrument to help entrepreneurs also to the partners selected by limited liability companies. As there was general agreement on the need for this enlargement on the ground of both chambers of Parliament, I will focus only on the key amendment adopted by the Senate, which I fundamentally disagree with. Since the very beginning of the budget, the compensation bonus has been designed as a return on the income tax of natural persons from dependent activities, which are shared taxes. Anyone who knows how the tax system works and how the so-called tax bonuses, which are no novelty in the legal order, must have been known to participate in the effects of the payment of the bonus both in the state budget and in the region and in the municipalities. This was also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, where there is talk of an impact on public budgets. [[21.10 hours]] The Senate now proposes that the compensatory bonus be redesigned as a contribution to natural persons provided from the state budget. In this way, a compensatory bonus instead of a tax bonus paid on the revenue side of public budgets would effectively become a subsidy granted on the expenditure side of the state budget. And the Senate's proposal was misguided, apparently based on the assumption that if the compensatory bonus was not explicitly referred to as a subsidy, its tax regime would be maintained and everything would work the same as it has been, but it is not, and the result will be similar as if it were a subsidy. It is not important what kind of designation is chosen, but that it should go instead of refunding the tax on expenditure from the state budget. From the outset, we considered the subsidy route to provide compensatory bonuses inappropriate. It is not true, however, that it was meant for the State to be able to deliberately drain the budgets of the municipalities in this way. The reason why we did not choose the subsidy route was a need for rapid and effective assistance to entrepreneurs, whereas in this case the subsidy route would not allow for rapid and administratively demanding solutions. Imagine that the entrepreneur, today the self-employed - and you have repeatedly stated here that this is one of the most effective aids the state has made - would instead of a statement of honour and within two days of the money in the bill, tops to three, fill out the grant application and actually process for this amount of the twenty-five, that overall if it were over the whole period, it is 44,500, it would process the subsidy and notabene would be more complicated than in the case of the tax bonus, and I will talk about other things that are related to it, especially the financial administration would not be able to process it. Because it's impossible from the point of view of organs Financial administrations that have never been entrusted with the competence of providing subsidies and are not simply competently or technically equipped for such an agenda, but above all, it is the competence. And it is not systemic and not desirable to make an institution that has the task, inter alia, to independently control compliance with the provider's budget rules. And the experience of application practice has confirmed the accuracy of our choice. Thanks to the fact that the aid is paid as a tax bonus, entrepreneurs reach it quickly and without unnecessary delays, unlike other government programs where the application and its implementation take longer time. Financial administration handles applications practically in turn, and that makes it, as I said, the best working direct support for entrepreneurs. It is therefore no surprise that the subsidy route was also rejected in the case of the compensatory bonus by representatives of the associations and business chambers, who were very likely to pay for the choice of the tax route and the aid was paid in the form of an existing compensatory bonus. If you are considering supporting the amendment proposed by the Senate, I must strongly point out that I would be forced if this version were to pass - and please, I say this with all the responsibility and explain it in the next speech - I would have to stop payment of the compensatory bonus immediately. The Senate proposal is also extremely problematic from the legal and legislative point of view. The compensation bonus is designed as a negative tax managed under the tax rules. On the other hand, state budget expenditure is generally governed by budgetary rules, and it would be necessary to apply the rules for subsidies by analogy. But these are based on completely different process procedures than tax administration. The Senate's proposal thus raises fundamental legal doubts as to which rules the administration of the compensatory bonus should actually follow in the future. The uncertainty would not only affect the state authorities, but, in particular, the beneficiaries of the compensatory bonus, who would not actually be clear about what their rights and obligations are, and these negative effects would be deepened by the fact that the Senate proposal wants to make that amendment retroactively in relation to the compensatory bonus that has already been paid, without giving any justification or legal guidance for the procedure in such a situation. The Senate is literally changing the rules of the game in its course, and towards both the State and the beneficiaries of the compensatory bonus is committed so-called. genuine retroactivity, which from a constitutional point of view is inadmissible. So I would stand, the Ministry of Finance, the Financial Administration, but above all it would be my decision, before a difficult choice, how to apply the law at all, whether to force applicants to reclaim a subsidy, who would process it, because the Financial Administration could not actually proceed in this way, whether to ask for the funds paid back, because it could not actually be paid back. All these questions would be raised. And until they were answered before we could find a new system of government bodies before we could solve it, the payment of the compensation bonus would have to be stopped. The adoption of the Senate proposal would thus not only paralyze the existing effective system of payment of the compensatory bonus, but also create a huge field for legal uncertainty and prolonged legal disputes. There would be a breach of legitimate expectations by entrepreneurs and, above all, to create unjustified differences between them, inter alia, depending on when they applied for a compensatory bonus. I therefore consider it necessary to make it clear at this point that, if a Senate proposal is adopted, it will be necessary, and I repeat this once again, please note, that the payment of the compensatory bonus should be suspended until all the budgetary and legal issues that I have discussed so far have been resolved. Finding a solution under such changed conditions, which would continue to provide a compensation bonus quickly, simply and efficiently, would undoubtedly be very difficult, and at the moment I cannot guarantee that such a result would ever be achieved, just because I have completed this journey with my colleagues. Unfortunately, businessmen affected by the current difficult situation have become the perceived hostages of the debate on the financing of self-government. In doing so, the Senate had the opportunity to address its position on the question of the participation of municipalities and regions in parallel without delaying, or even thwarting, in the event of approval, rapid and effective support for entrepreneurs, which would not be possible without legislative redress of procedural aspects and amendments to the State Budget Act. Here I would like to appreciate, as part of a fair approach, when I speak of the Senate, the position of the ODS Senator's club and several other senators who fought for such a constructive approach in discussing the draft in the Senate. It needs to be said here. And that the proposal returned to the Chamber of Deputies was thanks to the senators for KDU and the STAN movement. So, however, the Senate's final vote shows that the Senate's opinion was definitely not completely black and white. I am fully aware of the present irreplaceable role of municipalities and regions in dealing with a situation that is unprecedented in the modern history of our country. I would like to stress that, like the government, a number of measures have been taken to protect the health of all citizens and to limit the spread of pandemics, to help the self-government to secure protective measures and to contribute to the respectable work of getting the spread of the disease under control. Unprecedented claims on the social system as a result of growth in unemployment and at the same time the cost of rescue programs to maintain work, direct assistance in the form of an infirmary, insurance forgiveness or health and safety measures are, in turn, a burden that the state bears on its shoulders without hesitation. I therefore consider the co-financing of the compensatory bonus by municipalities and regions to be entirely legitimate and their costs correspond to their share of the income tax on natural persons from dependent activities, i.e. 23,58 % in the case of municipalities and 8,92 % in the case of regions. The amount of CZK 68, the municipality and the region is therefore involved in the compensation bonus. It is the same key, according to which municipalities and regions are redistributed from shared taxes at the time of the growth tax collection. [[21.20 hours]] Let me express the view that rejecting the participation of the authorities in the financing of the compensatory bonus is a short-sighted policy. The bonus is intended not only to avoid economic losses as a result of the pandemic, but also to promote economic activity and consumption. The municipal and regional budgets will also benefit from this. Thanks to the bonus, the decrease in their income from shared taxes will be less than if the compensatory bonus had not been introduced. Entrepreneurs to whom direct financial support will be granted will start spending money. On the one hand, although the income of self-governments from the income of natural persons from dependent activities will fall temporarily, this failure will immediately compensate them in the form of higher value added tax income, which is also part of shared taxes, and therefore is also the income of budgets of municipalities and regions or corporate tax. Entrepreneurs, thanks to the compensatory bonus, will be able to bridge the current difficult situation, continue business and continue to contribute to public budgets. Thanks to the compensatory bonus and the abolition of the real estate acquisition tax, which we will discuss later, the beneficiary of which is only the state budget, will remain economic operators by CZK 50.1 billion more. This represents a higher VAT collection of CZK 11.5 billion in a conservative multiplier. Thus an additional contribution for municipalities of CZK 3.5 billion, for regions of CZK 1.2 billion. Therefore, the calculated effects of the compensatory bonus on local budgets can also be reduced by these amounts. The real impact on municipalities is thus expected to be at a level of minus CZK 6.4 billion and at the edge of CZK 2.3 billion. It should be noted here that the current tax forecast of the Ministry of Finance as of 7 May 2020 envisages a year-on-year decline in the tax revenues of the municipalities by 11 % and 12,6 % for the circus regions. This prediction also takes into account the effects of the compensatory bonus. However, this is only a short-term effect. In the long term, the aim of the measure is to save business and jobs and return them to their original performance as quickly as possible. The measure is therefore also aimed at bringing fiscal revenue back to normal in the medium term. Therefore, there is no need to worry about the investment projects of municipalities. Madam Secretary spoke of it. Dostálová above all, so I will not repeat the arguments that were made out of her mouth. The Ministry of Finance also carried out a stress test, according to which municipalities are able to cope without serious problems with a fall in their tax revenues by up to 15 percent due to the state of public finances without having to take new loans. I'd like to make a note of that. After years of unprecedented tax revenue growth, the management of local authorities is in excellent shape. As you know, over the last five years, municipalities' tax revenues have increased by CZK 75 billion, an increase by 44 percent, and regions by 25,7 billion, namely by 52 percent. The increase in the RUD between 2016 and 2018, of course, contributed to this, so the budgetary determination of taxes for the benefit of municipalities and regions, i.e. at the expense of the state budget, has been changed three times. But that's what we've been talking about. That is why I believe that local authorities can, without fear, implement the development plans envisaged for this year. And as has been said here, I repeat and I assure you that we are ready to support the budgets of municipalities and regions with massive subsidies for this purpose. And as Finance Minister, I am aware that not suffocating the economy now is absolutely crucial, and this pro-investment approach will eventually come back to all of us. I believe that we will find enough solidarity in this difficult time and focus on the rapid and fair assistance of our economy. I think all the important information has been summarized. And it is clear that marketing events with black flags hanging from some town halls and petitions calling for this bill to be dropped are too dangerous a political game in which the fates of several hundred thousand responsible, independent and enterprising citizens of the Czech Republic are played. You all know that they are the ones who are watching today's vote and today's negotiations most attentively. The representatives of the authorities who have played this policy behind the scenes are not mostly here today, they will not vote. It's up to you, all of you. For all these reasons, I would therefore like to ask you to support the bill as approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-003-005.u5	Thank you. Before I invite another speaker, I have noted during this speech that President Stanjura has declared himself with priority rights, and I would like to ask whether he is now or in the debate. Until the debate. Thank you. In that case, I ask Senator Šárka Jelínková to take the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-003-005.u6	Good evening, Mr President, Minister, Vice Prime Minister, Minister, Ministers, honourable Members, honourable Members. Let me justify here the bill amending Act No. 159/2020 Sb., on the compensation bonus in connection with crisis measures related to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, which the Senate discussed under press number 256 on 13 May 2020 and by its resolution number 399 decided to return the proposal to the Chamber of Deputies, as amended by the amendments. The Senate adopted two amendments to that law at this meeting. I will begin with the simpler one, which extends the range of eligible beneficiaries of the compensatory bonus to small limited companies, who are also volunteers for care or foster care. We therefore expand not only on self-employed persons, but also the companions of small companies. The second amendment, approved by the majority of senators present at the 22nd meeting of the Senate on 13 May of this year, amends completely the system for the payment of the compensatory bonus, which is still conceived as a return on the income tax of individuals from dependent activities, thereby affecting the holistic gross income of this tax, and hence the income of the regions, cities and municipalities. Indirectly, therefore, the costs of payment of the compensatory bonus will be borne by municipalities, towns and regions, as they will thus be reduced by the relevant proportion of their income from this tax. I remind you that according to Act No.243/2000 Coll., on the budgetary determination of revenues of certain taxes, it determines that the regions belong to 8,92 % and the municipalities to 23.58 % of the national gross income tax income of natural persons -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-003-005.u7	Madame Senator, I will interrupt you and invite the House to remain more calm. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-003-005.u8	Thank you, too, Mr President. - from the holistic gross income of personal income taxes on dependent activities. It appears to be a very problematic distribution of real impacts between individual public budgets. It follows from the above that around one third of the costs of this anti-crisis measure will be borne by the local authorities. This is another loss of revenue of the circus in the order of 5 % to the already expected 10 to 20 %. In contrast to the State, territorial authorities cannot cover this revenue gap by borrowing and the only solution will be to postpone and limit investment. I remind you that regional government investments account for up to 50 per cent of the total public investment over the years. The reduction in public investment is highly procyclical and can further deepen the economic crisis that we can remember from 2009 to 2012. [[21.30 hours]] The amendment aims to change this fact and to make the compensation bonus cost of the state budget, thus not affecting shared taxes and thus the income of regions, cities and municipalities. Since part of the compensatory bonuses has already been paid, Article 2 of the proposal, entitled Transitional Provisions, which amends the expenditure chapter already for the compensation bonuses paid, is part of the proposal. The fact that the compensation bonus is based on the principle of tax bonus, respectively. the refund of the tax is not affected by the amendment. The Senate refund deals with the source of funding, it does not concern the status of applicants for a bonus. This would be addressed within the framework of the transfer of public budgets without impact on applicants. Now I will take the liberty of responding to some of the Minister's concerns. Madam Secretary didn't give a single reason why we're talking about a grant. The definition of the subsidy according to budgetary rules is not fulfilled. She also talked about stopping the payment of the compensation bonus. I assume that if you decide to adopt the law as well as in the wording of Senate amendments, the Minister will apply the law adopted. Who else should apply it in a democratic state? Freezing a quick paycheck - we also heard that it would happen. I guess so. But the black Petr is not on the Senate's side, who accepted the amendment, but at the beginning of this solution to pay compensation bonuses to the needy entrepreneurs, OSVČ, small s. r. o. by being involved in the payment of the bonus by reducing on their incomes of the city and the municipality. Thank you now for your attention and I hope that you will consider the Senate's proposals and support the amendment in its proposed text. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-003-005.u9	Good evening, honourable Members. I thank the senator for her performance. We will continue, with the fact that I would now ask the rapporteur, a colleague of Kamal Farhan, to comment. It's not like that. In that case, I can open the debate. The first with priority rights is colleague Jan Bartošek. A colleague of Stanjure will be ready. I hear screams from the O.R., but there's a written application from my colleague Bartošek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-003-005.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. First of all, I would like to thank and thank the Senator for the patience that she endured the full day's negotiations against the Senate until this hour when the Chamber of Deputies is acting. This law is relatively crucial for the functioning of cities and municipalities, for their budgets and also for regional budgets. There were arguments that everyone knew on the basis of one sentence in the explanatory statement that this was about public budgets, that this would be about municipal and regional budgets. And so I ask: When you came up with this proposal, Madam Secretary, did you at least write a decent letter to the representatives of the authorities and say to them: "Dear mayors, dear mayors, nice captains, we come up with a bill that will take away 11 billion and 4 billion regions"? Since the law was not discussed once in the Chamber of Deputies, but several times, you had several opportunities to raise this issue and inform the authorities that this would happen. Since I have information, there hasn't been any such letter, there hasn't been any such question. This implies one thing - municipalities and regions were not taken as partners, you did not ask for their opinion, you did not inform them about how it would affect the state budget. And there's one more thing that follows. Today, you chased about social democracy here and with communists who, what, how - to be exact, with KSČM, to avoid repair - who will present a better bonus and you will overtake here how much, what, how, who you will compensate. [[Sound failure.]] I'm sorry, the microphones are tied up. Is there anything we can do about it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-003-005.u11	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-003-005.u12	Then I'll step down. [[He's laughing. Screams from the O.R. It's for the best.]] I'm not gonna make you so happy, just away from the microphone. And today you've been chasing over who you're gonna be here to compensate for the budgets of municipalities and regions, how much you give, how much you spend on subsidies. If you're so smart today, why didn't you come up with this idea a month ago when you knew what the blackout would be? Why didn't you come up with compensation to say, "We know you're gonna lose the money, so we're gonna give it to you"? It's just a game from your side today. You don't care about self-government at all. And I'm convinced that even when you designed this bill, you knew that you wanted to touch the money of municipalities and regions, because I remember very well from the previous term when the Prime Minister said, "the money is rolling in there, that's wrong." So the philosophy of this government is, if you're a good caretaker and you're saving money for future times when it gets worse, then get ready for this government to come and take that money away from you. This is the reward of this government for good economic operators in their cities. So it must be said, frankly, that the story begins in the Chamber of Deputies, when I come up with a proposal from the Member and I want to deal with it, and you do not approve of this amendment. Then the Senate wants to deal with it, and even then, you don't come up with a compensation bonus or to compensate for the outage of these budgets. And it must be said that this government is prepared, and in my view, in a bad way, to address this only on the basis of the opposition's pressure. This government is completely stolen by mayors and regional leaders. All you care about is their money. That's your point. You're chasing about how much you care about business and business and everything. That's an amazing logic. We'll take your money, but you'll actually get more. I think I need to explain this. So just to illustrate, I'm gonna leave you with a greeting from the mayors, for example from the municipality of Dražice near Tábor, when, thanks to this law, if the House version passes, they'll stop the investment for 1.2 million. From the village of Zdíkova, where they will not be able to reconstruct the kitchen in the primary school. The village of Albrechtice nad Vltavou, where thanks to your law they will not have money for the sewage treatment plant. village Krasonice, village Žulová. Read all about what you will cut the budgets of municipalities. I'll leave it with you, Madam Secretary. [[He's handing the evidence to the Treasury Secretary.]] Just to illustrate what's happening right now. The Prime Minister takes this obituary and says, "Give it to me, Madam Secretary, I'll give them the money." Are you serious, Prime Minister? Yeah, is that what you're serious about? Is this what this government's grant policy looks like? Seriously? That as Prime Minister, he's gonna take something and say, "I'm gonna give out the money 'cause I'm the Prime Minister"? Is that really how it works? The Prime Minister has the money, indeed, Madame, through the President? The Prime Minister has money? Really? [[Laughs and screams from the O.R.: He has.]] He does! He does, yeah. Yes, the Prime Minister has money to take from tax entrepreneurs and municipalities from their budgets. That's the money he's gonna split. No imaginary money. That's the money. [[21.40 hours]] If there are grant titles, they must have rules on the basis of which individual projects are supported. And don't let one person decide and say, "I have money, I'll give it away"! This is a grant policy within the framework of the YES movement? This is your anti-corruption movement? Are you serious? So the real consequence, if you approve the House version, is that you strangle and suffocate the economy of the municipalities. Instead of investing, supporting local entrepreneurs and the local economy, they will first have a fall in income because the economy is not working, and secondly, that they will get even less from shared taxes. Is this how you plan on starting the economy? I didn't. The final result, instead of helping the authorities, is that we will all be poor, communities and regions, and we will be begging sticks. This is the result of this government. And there was an argument from the Minister's position, and I appreciate that this was a fair argument, whether or not it could be implemented by a proposal approved by the Senate. I had an opinion drawn up for this, which says that the Senate proposal, as approved, is feasible. That means, now it's all about whether or not you want to screw up cities, whether or not you don't want to support the local economy, or if you go the way the Prime Minister says, "Give it to me, I'll give it to them." Okay, that's your transparent movement, anti-corruption, with clear rules! Grants based on their own sympathies, membership of the ANO movement. And the previous vote, as we have been through here, when social democracy was sacrificed in their motion for a resolution that was meaningful, is your price that you pay for being in a coalition supported by the KSČM. It is also about the pride of one of the oldest parliamentary democratic parties. So I say for myself, you have the opportunity here to support the Senate bill, which helps municipalities and regions in their budgets, or the House that goes the way of stifling urban and regional budgets. And each of you, when you come home and raise your hand here today for the House version, when people ask you, say at home, in Brno, in Olomouc and in other cities, yes, I supported my city's loss of 6, 8, 10 and more millions. This will be a responsibility to your constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-003-005.u13	That was Chairman Jan Bartošek. Before I give the floor to Prime Minister Zbyněk Stanjur, I apologise to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from Olga Richterová from 21.30 to 22.10. Now the President of the ODS Club with priority rights, Mr Jurečka will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-003-005.u14	I don't know if I can make it in that limited time. First of all, we agreed at our club today that we want a break before the final vote to decide how we're going to vote. Of course, I didn't think to say that at 21.43 o'clock. I didn't really think of that. And I'm sorry, my performance is going to be a little longer than I wanted it to be, and it's going to be a little more detailed because, Madam Secretary, how would I put it? - painted the reality pink. It's quite consistent with her outfit today. We want to support the Esero. The correct answer is finally! How many times have these opposition proposals been rejected by the government majority? One would cry if he believed that the government's key concern... Madam Secretary correctly said, these are the people who haven't gotten anything so far. But whose responsibility is it that they didn't get anything? This government! Even during the first discussion of the compensation bonus for businessmen here were proposals from the opposition, let us give it to small s. r. o. What was the Minister's position? Against the proposal. Against the proposal. Against the proposal. Only when the arguments came out under the concentrated pressure of the entire opposition, which, of course, are not communists, that is clear, they only play us here, and maybe someone outside the House believes that - we know that this is a much more influential party than President Hamáček's party. If anyone has sunk social democracy, it was its chairman - look at the vote - and important members. See how they support the proposal of their own Member. What about the MPs? Vice-Presidents of their own party! Then my colleagues from the socde tell me, "Leave us alone." Well, we won't. Why did we debate for five and a half hours? Because you, my dear colleagues from social democracy, suggested it. We appreciated it and supported it. That was not the opposition's proposal. But as I read in a diary a rather expressive statement from the Minister, I must say that it worked at least on Chairman Hamáček. It worked. How's the socan? We want communists, the secretary said. And that's how it turned out. So don't connect the terms of ČSSD and pride. There's no point. Everyone can lose, that's normal, and when they have an opponent who has more MPs, they lose. But if you score your own goal, then don't tell us to leave us alone. You took all of us five and a half hours of parole, and the result is zero, because you believed the headline I learned without wanting to. Someone sent me the link. I wasn't looking for him. If you haven't seen him, I'd be happy to show him to you so I don't advertise a specific journal or a specific website. Madam Secretary says the hostages have become businessmen. Exactly the opposite! The whole time we've been proposing to compensate for actually interrupted business and zero revenue - what the Minister said is absolutely right when she described the situation - the opposition has been proposing it all along. Two months. And as a hostage, the secretary took municipalities and regions. So it's exactly the opposite! Yes, my colleagues in the Senate didn't support it. We also discussed this closely during the negotiations. The reasons are purely practical, but my colleagues in the Senate certainly know the problem, they also proposed a bill to solve it unfortunately. If the government can't do it simply, the Senate will handle it for the government. According to my information, it went through the first reading, and at the next meeting of the Senate, it is expected that the bill will be passed, passed to the Government and the Chamber of Deputies. For five and a half hours, we convinced the government to handle this easily. If the government wanted to solve this, we had this bill approved in the House version in three minutes. The government majority, Madam Secretary and the ANO movement under her baton will do everything they can to get through the Senate version. Everything for it, even though it says that the House version - each of its performances increases the chances of the Senate version. That's just the way it is. And we responsible, who have been responsible for this, even though we are strong opposition, the strongest opposition, yet we have preferred, colleagues in the Senate, a rational and factual approach. But a debate with the government may not be factually and rationally possible. We just have communists, we push through it. And then he'll point his finger somewhere: it's them, it can't be right now. What do we have a government for? What do citizens have a government for? So she can figure it out! Don't let her say she can't! I don't want to argue with KDU colleagues if I can or can't. The solution proposed by us, and not just us, but many others, and the four votes of President Hamáček and three of his colleagues were missing, but it was clear, the problem was named, solved, and we did not have to debate, and we did not have to jeopardize the principle that works. I didn't notice at those chantings, press conferences on 25 that the Secretary of State would thank the mayors and the regions for being involved. Not once! We give 500 crowns a day. But it's not true. Why didn't the government say that from the start? Many of us, and I certainly know from the beginning that this is the case, and it was a solution that allowed the entrepreneurs not to give this contribution. Whoever's a little tax-oriented says that this is how it is, it's not quite easy to solve a contribution to entrepreneurs who aren't going to tax themselves. And I'm sure we can agree that it's absurd for the state to give compensation to someone, that it made his business impossible, and then tax him. [[21.50 hours]] This was the way it wasn't supposed to be done. That's right. Even with the help of experts, we have resolved and supported this. It was us, specifically me, who read the amendment, which freed the infirmary from taxation from the MIT. Minister Havlíček forgot about it, and if we let him push it through, it would be taxing. So we've shown helpfulness and competence to this. That's what I'm talking about. We discussed the taxation, we had some proposals, then the Minister came up with a solution that we supported. So I certainly wouldn't take credit for other people. Yes, the program works, works best of all, it's fast. By the way, it's also because we convinced the Minister, and then she joined, and her officials wrote the changeling that the application could have been sent by e-mail. Remember you, members of the budget committee, what resistance was originally, how it would not work. And, hey, it's okay. I think 60 percent of those requests came through the e-mail, they're solved, which is hundreds of thousands. And without a doubt, it was good for the program. And I acknowledge and thank the Minister that her office has prepared the amendment. But it wasn't easy to enforce either. I remember the debate. So the law isn't about the income of municipalities and regions, it's about supporting businessmen and small companies. We should be dealing with other problems, Madam Secretary. Imagine an example that is not invented, you may have the same email: s. r. o., which has four directors, two married couples. They'll get nothing. Instead of giving the debate and the details, so that we don't miss them... At least according to the law, they're telling them they're not getting anything. I think so too, but I'm not an interpreter of the law. Because they're not one family, they're two families, two married couples. It's not a big business. And the result is zero. That's what we're supposed to talk about. Not that a stranger gives himself away well. Because the government here is handing out strangers. It's interesting... I have to admit, Prime Minister, I really don't čau your people. I really don't. Never. Not once. [[Responses from the government bench.]] The Prime Minister says you heard it was a mistake. Well, I saw a haircut from your last hey, guys, when you were talking about money and you said, "We don't have any money, that's your money, taxpayers! - Prime Minister, I agree with you. And then you say, "I'll pay for it." - It doesn't go together, does it? Either he pays first or he pays second. When you said it in Hey, guys, you're probably serious, and then maybe you're surprised, I agree that the government doesn't have any money. Any government, not just this one. But when it comes to handing out, the Prime ča forgets and says to me, give me the party, I'll send it. - But that's not your money, Prime Minister. That is neither money nor government, nor the House, nor the Senate. As you rightly said, that's taxpayers' money. And that law is about supporting some of the taxpayers who have been doing honest business for years, paying taxes, and from day to day thanks to measures that I am not going to debate today, they have lost income for a certain period of time. Fellows in the Senate have pointed out the problem that the government is partially handing out from outsiders. Let's be fair, 34 percent give the regions and municipalities, and thus 66 percent give the state. But it's taxpayers' money again. But they actually prepaid it by paying taxes and paying taxes that they have to pay so far. And instead of simply figuring it out, we've been debating for 5.5 hours, so, as the secretary said, I want the communists. Well, he's got communists. He's got a toothless resolution that he's coming out of, as he wants, because he's already got two years, 2020, 2021, maneuvering space is very wide. Maybe I'm wrong about the government, and next week she'll send the 10,5 billion to the municipalities, so next week I'll tell them I was wrong, and I'll thank the government for doing it well, cleverly and simply. But such a serious matter to discuss at 21.54, it really isn't normal. And if you think you're gonna tire us out, that we're gonna stop debating and considering arguments for and against, you haven't really recognized us in all the years we've been in opposition. I'd say that's exactly the opposite. Madam Secretary says - and let's try to trust her - if she passes the Senate version, I'll stop it. Based on what? Do the laws apply to everyone? Even for the government? Even for the Treasury Secretary? Even for a government MP? Even for the opposition MP? Or just for some? Perhaps the Minister is right, and from a precautionary point of view, the House version is really better than the Senate. But when the government has refused to really help municipalities, towns and regions in this way, I say, chances of adopting a Senate bill are increasing. In her introductory words, the Minister said that some of the proposals were against the support of small s. r. o. I didn't notice any of these. Nobody in the Senate or the House suggested giving a bonus to small s. r. o. On the contrary, the changelings rejected, which expanded the number of executives, increased the bonus. Everything was rejected. So be it. We voted in favour of the House version and we have no problem repeating our vote and voting again in favour of the House version. But before that, there will be another vote. And if the secretary was serious about what she said, saying, "I humbly ask you, and please support the House version," she had a chance to do it for 5.5 hours. A simple expression on the microphone. Nothing happened. Nothing! Not a millimeter towards the municipalities. Even experienced mayors have forgotten. Yes, they're successful, 2 billion. Is it the quality of the projects or the accessory to the government party? I know I'm tough, but that's the way it is, that's the question you're gonna ask. Is every community so successful? I don't think so. 6 259 municipalities times one billion (?) In four years, count it. So many grant titles aren't even in that amount. And then this successful mayor throws the others overboard and says, "Sort of help yourself." Because the secretary wants the communists and not the socana. So, just to be safe, they say we're here, too, some of us, and if there's a problem, we'll support you. Not only the communists, that wouldn't be enough, four more socans had to be in favor of not getting away with it. I didn't take part in the debate about questioning the vote, I just want to say that the fact that someone is in the hall doesn't mean that he has to question the vote. It really doesn't. The man can't sign up, knowingly or unconsciously. If one of my colleagues becomes unable to sign up, he calls immediately and most of the vote is declared confusing. Right at the moment. Not once did the Member concerned come forward with the fact that he could not vote. After the training from the boss. I don't understand. I did not question the course of the vote because I am generous, so I did not support this objection in the vote, because I do not think it was fair to the rest of us and I have to lose, and I have to risk all this in the resolution against the government... And I will ask the Vice-President, who is in charge of the meeting at the moment, I have such a request that he can arrange for all the accompanying resolutions that we have adopted in this parliamentary term on individual bills, on individual points, and on the part of the government, to see how seriously the government is taking the resolution that the House will adopt, how many times it will grant us and how many times it will wallpaper Strakovka. And if we don't all do it, Mr Vice-President, I would ask you to arrange for the House's apparatus to hand out the information to us next Tuesday at the Grémium, then by e-mail to all Members of the Chamber of Deputies, so that we know for ourselves whether it makes any sense to seek accompanying resolutions at all. [[2.00 hours]] I am critical of the custom of the law to adopt accompanying resolutions. There is something else when there is a separate point and resolutions are adopted, that is completely different. But I have long been calling on fellow Members of Parliament's Clubs not to make accompanying resolutions on the law, for example by a gentleman's agreement. It's just an alibi for those who voted in favour or against. The key is the final vote on the bill, whether I am in favour or against, and it does not matter whether we accept one, two, three, four, five, six accompanying resolutions. Indeed, that is what someone who is not sure of how he voted creates - and it doesn't matter whether from the government or from the opposition, I say it in general - creates an alibi to say well, although the law didn't pass, I didn't support it, but I supported the accompanying resolution that says: we do not want those companies from tax havens - if I give one example. We did not want to do this by majority will, the Minister did not want it, I remember it, but we heroically adopted an accompanying resolution which, of course, has much less weight and much less legal relevance than when it is right in the law. So, Vice-President, please take this as an official request for our club to prepare the House's apparatus and make it available to all Members so that we know how seriously the government takes the resolution, both accompanying the laws and the others that arise in the debate. For example, when we were discussing social services, several motions for resolutions went through with the deadlines for what the government should do, what the Minister should do, and then almost everyone will forget about it, then we are very surprised. There was something similar about education and teacher salaries. I'd like to see the statistics. Perhaps it will limit the failure to propose and adopt accompanying resolutions on the bill. Madam Secretary appreciated the position of my colleagues in the Senate. I agree with them in principle, but after the debate, Madam Secretary, I would like to hear more detailed reasons why this is not possible, on which basis the law does not actually apply. Before we accepted the compensation bonus, the IRS did not pay anything except the refund or advance if they were higher, on corporate or natural persons tax at the annual settlement. And they did it, so to speak. They did it. Madam Secretary says so, even the opposition praises it, it is true. This is a program that works, but it is not a support for business, let's say it is openly. It has the character of a benefit in material distress, no doubt. Because telling someone who couldn't do business that 500 kroner a day has both a living and a business support - the secretary correctly said: they couldn't pay mortgages, they couldn't pay rents, they couldn't pay invoices - well, they wouldn't pay for 500 kroner. Partly, it allows them to pay for something, but they certainly won't pay all the costs. 44,000 in two and a half months - it's not a big company that costs 44,000, and that man also needs some income for his family, he can't just put that 44,000 into business. Although, as the Minister of Justice says, they were supposed to have cotton wool, weren't they? Everyone has cotton wool in her concept. Then the Prime Minister said quite rightly: don't take her seriously, she didn't mean it. Maybe she didn't mean it, but she said it. They were supposed to have cotton wool. We've all heard it, or many of us, maybe we haven't all heard it. So we're facing a tough question. We citizens of the Democrats support the bonus for both tradesmen and s. r. o. We have demonstrated our will that this is not just an opinion, both by voting in the Chamber of Deputies, although the amendments did not go through, so we supported the Government's proposal in the final vote and so we supported it in the Senate - we could join the majority. And the debate wasn't easy. I think the senator would've confirmed it. We have good relations there between the House of Opposition, but in the Senate by majority clubs. And it doesn't happen very often that we disagree. Yet our senators preferred the interest of entrepreneurs, but at the same time they said "there is a legitimate interest of mayors, city representatives, municipalities and regions" and came up with an alternative proposal for a solution - a bill. And we came up with another alternative today, even Mr Veselý, although he did not suggest the parameters of the division as we did, but we actually agreed in that amount. He was a little more generous to the edges, maybe by having five captains, but we also supported the six billion. for the county. We even voted in favour of the higher proposal made by Mr Martínek, and we did not want to compete: we gave 1,000, Pirates 1,100, so we propose 1,200. We had this debate seriously, argumentatively, well-founded, but completely unnecessary. The result is zero - toothless resolution. 15 billion. for municipalities in 2020 and 2021. If I add up the existing grant programs, that's 15 billion. It will be without anything to add, without a single crown being added. And then the government can say, we've fulfilled, we want the communists, so we've done it to the communists. And as the Prime Minister said, there's this Rainbow and this, and on my count, it's the 15 billion. It will be. But there's no quarrel. That's not what we're discussing today. Nobody suggested we put the money in. Although the Prime Minister wanted to suggest to the public in his speech that we wanted to cancel the other subsidies. We just wanted a simple thing so the government wouldn't invent new grant titles. Are there overhangs? Excellent. The Minister of Transport will confirm and confirm this to me by a fellow Member Roman Onderka, we are at the last Supervisory Board, and it is about four or six weeks ago, they have proposed to the Committee, because the Supervisory Board does not have the authority to send overhangs to the Committee and in those three programmes about 500 miles. And they are mainly municipalities, but also regions in those three programs. [[There's noise and very poor audibility in the hall.]] I don't know if the SFDI committee has met to this day and solved it. It's loaded, the projects are ready. These are projects that have met all the criteria. We're not talking about the ones that didn't. Only the financial line was around here somewhere. [[He's showing clearly.]] And we, as well as a colleague from social democracy, and with colleagues representing other political parties, have recommended the committee - and it has been a while, I think Mr Onderka will confirm it. At this point, I can ask Minister Havlíček if he's already done this. Is there money in there? [[Minister Havlíček: They are not.]] The head of the fund was there. It's simple, it can be done. Recommendations of your party representative as well. [[to Minister Havlíček]] Now I don't see the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. I can see him now. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board will confirm that we all agreed on this regardless of who represents which party. And after a long debate, we made sure that it is possible that it is not wishful thinking, but that it is a real thing that can be done very quickly. And it's worth it again. And those communities could already compete, the ones that ended up in the line and don't compete. And it's a shame, because the construction season is running - half a billion absolutely. The Minister will say: I will add to the construction companies. I don't really mind if the money goes all the way down to those little companies. But according to the news from the market, it's not, the big ones keep it, and it's almost all foreign owners. And it doesn't go to the subcontractors, those who have two machines on that construction site, the increase. So it's only a few selective aids again. And I mean, I'm not questioning the principle. But they come to us, and we're not the only, small and medium-sized construction companies, and they say, that's great, the big ones got, and we got nothing. That's reality. And then the Prime Minister says - and I say tesate in stone - we should support the little ones. But it's not like that in traffic construction. A small company is unable to build highways. It's not. But small companies can win competitions for those mayors where there's cycling, traffic safety and stuff like that, crossing intersections, lighting crossings, they've succeeded, they just haven't got any money left. [[where:]] And the deed is nothing. And so it is with everything. So, on the one hand, the government is asking for a generous, constructive approach - for us, I say that in this bill, we have certainly shown it and are ready to continue to show it. And what does the government offer opposition parties in return? Nothing! That's right. Nothing! One-sided trust, one-sided help. If you agree with us, great, we're in the same boat if you have another suggestion, so nothing. Get off that ship! We're in charge here. That's the reality. And then it's very difficult in this emotionally difficult debate - and I had one mayor after another in the MP's office yesterday, and I patiently explained to them the flaws of the Senate proposal, patiently defending the position of my party colleagues, the Senators of the ODS. And I said, don't worry, we have a solution, and I believe that we will convince the government, and you will get the money. I'm telling them today when they watch it one day: I was too optimistic, we didn't convince the government. Our simple and quick solution was rejected by the government majority. And if you ask why, let's use that sentence that the secretary said, "I want communists." I don't give a shit about the mayors!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-003-005.u15	That was a colleague of Stanjura. Now, with priority rights, President Jurečka, President Kalousek will be prepared. But before Mr. President Jurečka, a factual remark by Josef Hájek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-003-005.u16	Mr President, colleagues, I will be very brief. Mr Stanjura, through Mr President, has asked for an analysis of the implementation of the resolution under our Government. I would ask that this analysis be extended to include the period under the ODS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-003-005.u17	Thank you for the inspiring suggestions. I'll discuss them with the President of the House. And, of course, government control is also carried out by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, not just in the form of laws. But I don't want to go outside the President's option. Mr. Chairman Jurečka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-003-005.u18	Thank you. I'll be brief. I have only two comments and one important question in the end for the Minister. First of all, I would argue that the Minister said that the Senate and Senate clubs KDU-ČSL and STAN had turned this into a political issue. I don't think so. I think the people who signed the petition, the more than 1,300 mayors, are not people who would mostly be in KDU-ČSL or STAN, even though KDU has the most municipal politicians, but those are people across the political spectrum. There are mayors who are dealing with how their community will work to meet the expectations of people who live in those municipalities, towns and, of course, from the level of the regions and regions. So that's what I'm looking for. Then I would like to mention, when the Minister here spoke of the fact that I am in charge here and so on, so, actually, before the 14 days of the meeting, this was brought to the Honza of Mr Bartošek's amendment. And I dare say that if the Senate and the subsequent petition and the mayor's response weren't as strong as we have here today, it wouldn't even be a toothless, unspecific resolution that came from the Communist workshop. And one last thing. Madam Secretary, I have a request. That's what I said I'd finish. You promised during this term that you had an analysis of the church restitutions when there was this dirty proposal that was contrary to easier legal arrangements. And the Constitutional Court was right about that. So you said you had an analysis. Then it turns out that when we started to want that analysis, there was no analysis. About two months ago, we were told that the government had an analysis when it decided to change government measures from the crisis law regime to the Public Health Act. It turned out again that there was no analysis. I asked her in writing. To this day, neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of the Interior nor the Minister of Health - it's been more than 30 days since I was a minister, I had a good habit with my officials that in 30 days everyone received an answer - so I didn't get an answer. There's no analysis. And today, as a strong argument here, there was a stress test that the Ministry of Finance had done some kind of stress test in relation to municipalities, towns, I don't know if even the regions. I have a simple question. And could I see him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-003-005.u19	I thank Mr Jurečka. Now there is a factual remark from President Stanjura. And a colleague of Kalousek is still standing by. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-003-005.u20	I have a simple procedural proposal. I suggest we stop the negotiations on this point until 9:00 tomorrow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-003-005.u21	Okay. Well, in that case, I have to call my colleagues from the lobby. President Stanjura's motion is to interrupt until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. That's what we're going to decide in the number thirty-nine vote. I'll check you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of people is settled, we will decide by voting on this proposal. [[There are still other Members coming into the hall.]] So I think it's okay now. We are voting on a motion to adjourn this item by 9:00 tomorrow. I've started voting number 39. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 39 of the present 177 for 80, against 74. The motion was not accepted. We are continuing with the speech of President Stanjura, who is applying for a factual remark, because otherwise he is here with the priority right of colleague Kalousek. I ask the House for peace. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-003-005.u22	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry about the vote. However, when the majority of the House has no sense, some clubs have reason. I'm asking for a two-hour recess at our club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-003-005.u23	I understand. I didn't vote against your proposal because I didn't vote for an extension after 7:00. But there's nothing that can be done. So all I have to do is call a break until the 24 hours of today's meeting day. And we'll meet tomorrow morning at 9:00 a.m. with the fact that the proposed agenda for the meeting, in order to comply with the Rules of Procedure, for tomorrow morning, is -- third reading points. Points 252, 253, 254, 255, 256 and 257 are firmly included, assuming that even the first half hour will be reserved for any changes in the order of the meeting. Have a good evening.
