ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u1	258. Oral inhalation First of all, before I initiate the first interpelling according to the winning order, allow me to state my apologies from this afternoon's meeting, namely Mrs Andrea Brzobohatá for the whole afternoon's meeting, Mrs Věra Adámková between 15 and 17 and 15.30 until the end of the sitting Strýček, and from 12.30 until the end of the sitting day, Mr Jan Čižinský apologizes. That's some apologies. And now we're going to proceed to the first interpelling, and it's... I'm still saying that the Prime Minister's interpellation will end at 16 o'clock. From 16 a.m. to the end of the day, we have an interview with other members of the government. We will, of course, start the last interpellation as always at 17.55. Once again, in the absence of the Minister, the Member will read the interview and receive an answer within 30 days under the Rules of Procedure Act, but your apologies have already been made, so perhaps you are all counting on it. Mr. Jaroslav Holík is the first interviewer to speak to the Prime Minister in the oral question of maintaining water in the countryside. Mr. Ambassador, you have two minutes to interpel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u2	Dear Prime Minister, when approving the state budget, which was about a quarter of a year ago, the State budget for 2020, I asked in my amendment that you move 200 million from Chapter 322, which is the promotion of renewable resources, where it is also about 27 billion. to Chapter 315, that is the environment, and specifically to the part of keeping water in the landscape. I have considered these means to be used for the creation of small water cannons, namely ponds, marshes, meanders, planting draws, or for the recovery of soil after drying areas in forests that are destroyed by barking. Unfortunately, this proposal was rejected by the government coalition. I accept that the year 2019 was a little bit more favorable, but this winter shows that the year 2016, 2017, 2018, will be repeated. And I ask, what about this condition, when the landscape is drying up, what does the government want to do with it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u3	Thank you for your comment. And the Prime Minister has five minutes to respond under the Rules of Procedure Act. I state this Rule of Procedure. And the Prime Minister has the floor. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u4	So hello, Mr President, honourable Members. Detention of water in the countryside within Green Deal is a priority for us. And, of course, the government perceives the need for greater water retention in the landscape, as well as soil protection against erosion. We consider this need to be very important and the government pays systematic attention to it. The government has prepared a number of strategic and legislative materials on this subject. I consider it important to highlight the state environmental policy and the strategy for adapting to climate change in the conditions of the Czech Republic from the strategic documents in which these topics are included, as both topics are very closely related to environmental protection and vulnerability to climate change, and the need to adapt to this change in order to mitigate its adverse manifestations as much as possible. The government of the Czech Republic responded to climate change by approving the so-called the national adaptation strategy in October 2015 and subsequently the implementation document in January 2017, which is the National Action Plan for adaptation to climate change. Both documents represent a set of adaptation measures aimed at reducing the vulnerability of the Czech Republic to climate change, including long-term droughts and water shortages, but also floods, heavy rainfall, extremely high temperatures and vegetation fires. Government adaptation measures aimed at greater water retention in the countryside and soil protection from erosion include, for example, restrictions on erosion of agricultural land, implementation of complex land treatment with a view to increasing the retention capacity of the landscape, implementation of measures for water retention in the forests, minimization of technical drainage of forest land using natural and nature-near procedures, gentle management of precipitation water, support of infiltration of surface water into groundwater, revitalization of watercourses and niv and support of spontaneous restoration, preventive protection of water resources, including protected areas of natural water accumulation. Quick implementation of the necessary measures in the landscape is crucial. From the Operational Programme Environment is supported by the implementation of the necessary projects to improve the state of the Czech landscape, such as the relativization of flows, the construction of pools and wetlands, ponds, the planting of ties and other greenery. These projects are also supported from state budget sources in the Landscape Care Programme. In the sub-programme PPK(B), which serves a wide range of applicants including cities and municipalities, local associations, non-profit organizations, natural and legal persons, the Ministry of the Environment doubled the allocated amount to a total of 80 million compared to last year. Overall, more than 6.5 thousand have been supported from European and national sources since 2014. projects worth 4.6 billion. Crowns. The Ministry of Environment will also finance the adaptation projects of the State Land Office. As part of the Rural Development Programme, the Ministry of Agriculture has already exhausted its resources, so the Ministry of Environment will allow it to draw on its programmes. The land office has a number of prepared projects worth up to 1.5 billion. Crowns. We also support water retention in the countryside through the Betting Future initiative, which aims to plant 10 miles. trees in the Czech countryside in the next five years. Last year, with significant support from the Ministry of Environment, 580 thousand were planted. trees. In increasing the retention capacity of water in the landscape, the government has taken many further steps. The Ministry of Agriculture reduced the size of the soil blocks to 30 hectares, tightened the anti-erosion conditions within the standard of good agricultural status of the land, where the new definition of erosion-risk areas increased protection to 25 per cent of arable land. Improving agricultural management is one of the principal objectives of the preparation of the new Rural Development Programme. The Ministry of Environment then discusses appropriate measures with the agrarian sector in the preparation of the so-called anti-erosion decrees in order to prevent the emergence of erosion events. So one more time. Water, water availability for citizens, water retention in the countryside is a priority of our government and we are increasing money to these goals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister, for keeping time to answer. Now, if my colleague Holík is applying for an additional question. Please. That's right. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u6	Dear Prime Minister, I am not satisfied with your answer. Are you kidding me? An increase of 80 miles. With the current drought, from my point of view, there is a lot, but very little. I wanted that transfer from that chapter of 322 to 200 million, which isn't even a percentage of what you're putting on renewable energy. Again, does this country need renewable resources or water? So I ask you one more time, what is the government going to do with this? I myself actively participated in the planting of new trees, and not only I, but a number of my colleagues from the SPD. Once again, what is more important for our republic? Support for solar barons or water?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u7	Thank you for keeping up with the additional question. Mr President, you have the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u8	Support for solar barons - you have to complain about it at Topolánek, at ODS. They set us up here, and that's why we have to give 30 billion each year. for solariums. What I quote is one of the programs. So I'd ask you, Mr. Ambassador, if you'd like to spend some time, here's the Minister of the Environment, there's two loose chairs next to him, so sit with him, and he'll give you even better details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u9	Thank you for keeping time to answer the supplementary question. Let's keep going. We've exhausted Mr. Holík's interpellation. Another is Mrs Olga Richterová, who intersects the Prime Minister on the issue of disabled persons without a ZTP card and their necessary benefits. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u10	Hello. Prime Minister, this is a matter that I have been dealing with since last year. I wrote you a detailed written interview because of this, unfortunately since then it has not been possible to discuss this matter with you in detail, so at least briefly here. Invalid pensioners in our country, although fully recognised as being fully disabled, have a third degree of disability, so far not everyone has a so-called disability card. And those who don't have the I.D., and they're tens of thousands of people, don't have a fare discount today. So those so-called flat fare discounts do not affect this very needed group - the average third-degree disability pension is CZK 1,500 lower than the average old-age pension. I just want to know when you're going to solve this, when this group, which had discounts in the past, was able to do this in our country, has it from the City of Prague Transport Company, here I have an excerpt from the Prague price list, where the right to discounted fares can be applied by a third-degree disability pensioner, and the whole Republic is pretending that it has fare discounts here through your government, Prime Minister, but it does not have them for these needy disabled people. I got a general answer - we're analyzing possible solutions to eliminate problems. But maybe Slovakia just put it in place. Slovakia for this group of people in disability, full disability, discounts or free fare - but we do not suggest this here - has. So I'm just asking when you're going to solve this. This is a government price regulation, and in the finals, it is your responsibility as the one who constantly presents this measure. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u11	Thank you for keeping time. The Prime Minister will answer the question within the time limit of five minutes. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u12	Good morning, then. I mean, in the morning... [[He's laughing.]] I was thinking about that this morning, Madame. I'd like to address you, you're the only one here for the pirát. And I was in Karlstejn this morning. - There's another gentleman. And your colleague here was making a scandal that I wasn't here. You know, this Karlštejn guy we started reconstructing. The way we reconstructed the museum and the State Opera and the Invalidovna and the Imperial Spa, and you said I should be here this morning. Why? Well, because you sent me 21 interviews with one question. 21 interpelling pirates - and here, taxpayers, listen carefully now. 21 pirates wrote me a question: Will you ever come? And that's an interpellation. And I replied: I can tell you that we will definitely meet in 2020 at the interpellations. That's how we just met. So I'd just like to say that written interpellation is absolute nonsense. You guys are turning this place into a show. I spent it usefully because Karlštejn, you will open it, your Prime Minister Bartoš and VAT on Ferjenčík's income, Minister of Finance, 2022 you will cut the tape there, but everyone will remember that it was Babiš who gave the money to the National Museum, State Opera, Invalidovna and Imperial Spa, CTU etc. And another interpelation for everyone to know is that Mr. Michálek asks me: what's your program? This is an interpellation, please listen carefully. What's your schedule? And I write to him: I can tell you that I work from morning to evening, so I get up at 4:30, I wash, then I practice from 5:30, I go to work at 6:30, I work at 7:00, I work 18, I deal with coronavirus from morning to night now. So these are your interpelations. That's what you make a scandal out of. Mr. Michálek here says that Havlíček is to be Prime Minister. Okay, I don't have a problem with that. I just want to explain to people when you think that I don't go to work, you written interpelations, I answered you, but I just want everyone to know that what you're asking me. When I'm coming. And if you want to talk to me, come. I'll give you my phone. Bartoš has it. Now he's texting me to meet Nacher at the execution. I don't have a problem with that. So please, like, I'd really like you to say hello to your colleagues, 21 by "will you ever come to work?". I go to work from morning to night. You're all still asleep. Yeah? So be so kind, say hello to your colleagues. And I'm not really gonna go to those written interviews anymore, I've already made that clear to you. I suggest we move the written interpelations to the afternoon so I don't have to waste two hours here. You know what it is, two hours? For me, it's eight dates. And let's do an interview for Prime Minister 14.30 to 16 plus 30 minutes, so 14.30 to 16.30, and 30 minutes I'll tell you if I come. Well, here I am. I'm walking, I'm going to care now, I'm having fun with the oral patronage, so you guys are doing a show here that I wasn't at work. I was at work. And I'm gonna leave things behind, and if you're in government, you're gonna cut those tapes under the national investment plan. What you're asking me, we've already answered that question. Yeah? And the discount on the old people, of course, we'd like to give it to everyone, but I can read it to you again, you know that, yeah. So it's pretty clear that you guys need these interpelations to make yourselves visible, but come and have a normal chat. Ask me, Mrs. Kovářová made a supershow, called Czech TV, I don't know how she does it, filmed it, came to the office with this kindergarten kit, took pictures of herself, made a circuit campaign, well, she was on TV. Then you come, too. Maybe the Czech TV, she's good at it, ask how she's doing it with the Czech TV, even the Fridrichová one, you know what it is, that's the anti-babish one hundred and sixty-two, that's where it was, and in the Week in politics it was. After that, the Czech Television secretly recorded us talking to Schillerová. So I say, I'm happy to welcome you. I think you're a very serious Member, you're very polite. I'd be happy to discuss it with you, and I'm sure in social services, we'll make a deal. And you know very well that this card, we have a problem within the European Union. Yes? That this would be contrary to the law of the European Union. - Isn't that right? All right, well, come see me, then, at the government. Yeah? Not here. Come to me -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u13	Mr President, you've exhausted the time to answer that question. [[Okay.]] Mrs Richterová is reporting with an additional question, so I'll give her my word right away. Please, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u14	So, first of all, I haven't been absolutely answered. Secondly, precisely because these things are complicated, they are written interpelations so that it can be discussed in more detail. It's totally unacceptable to offer some private meetings, when there's a process here, there's a procedure in which we can work this out together. And the answers that say "we are now analyzing possible solutions" ignore the fact that in Slovakia, which is part of the European Union, these cards are possible, that in Prague we also have discounts for third-degree disabled people. The answer in which it says "it is not possible to anticipate at this time when a circle of people can be extended, it is not possible to anticipate, we analyze" - all this after the discounts have been here for a year, a year people with disability point out the problem, and you, Prime Minister, have done nothing at all, just here you do not answer my questions. You face how helpful you are, but instead you ignore your job, and that is to answer unpleasant questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u15	Madam, I warn you that the Prime Minister can speak to anything because he has a right of priority. I can't interrupt him, of course, just in case there's a lot of noise. So, of course, I respect your supplementary question, and the Prime Minister will answer you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u16	I was answering those written interpelations this morning when you criticized me. There are 26 written interpelations. That's 19 when you ask me if I'm coming to work. I come every day. And then Michálek asks me what my schedule is. You want to know? Yesterday at 11 o'clock I was sitting with Vojtěch in Průhonice and we were dealing with coronavirus. 11:00 p.m.! And as for the discount, please, I'll read it to you again. And give me the cook I did wrong. I don't know what I did wrong. We gave discounts to people. Even the VAT that Mrs. Kovářová put through here, she ended up with the transporters, not the people, while we're at it. So let me read this for you: First of all, it must be said that proving the right to a discount from the tent of passengers must be simple, quick and, above all, unambiguous. The point is that every bus driver or conductor on a train must be able to safely determine whether or not he is entitled to a discount. Now provided discounts are used by children, students, seniors on the basis of existing standard documents and IDs. Invalid seniors don't have that kind of ID. Therefore, first, someone must produce it, issue it to the persons concerned and then continuously prolong it on the basis of the results of the medical examinations. However, the big problem is that, as a Member State of the European Union, we have an obligation under the same conditions to transport all citizens of the Member States and also other economically associated countries. Who and on what documents will issue IDs to these people, please? Answer us. Do other states have an analogue institute such as our third degree disability? They don't, you know that. Will it require a certified translation of the document? So I'm gonna interpel you, I'm gonna interpel you, I'm gonna send you a letter. I'll ask you if you don't want to come to me. Will it tell us everything we need, such as a time limit, a disability pension? All these questions and a number of others will need to be answered before an extension of the discount to this group is decided.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u17	[[He's coming in.]] Prime Minister, the time has ended for this answer. [[Okay.]] There is nothing left to do but interrupt you and continue with further interpelling, and this is interpelling Member Jan Zahradník on the Green Agreement for Europe. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u18	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, at some point, perhaps you could come to the conclusion that this might be of benefit to you at some point. I didn't do anything without you today. Your response to the answer your officials gave to my written energy security interview, by the way, was maybe three minuses, such a better four, the answer. So maybe you can hear some things while you're interested. Now, get to the point. On 11 December 2019 the European Commission issued a communication called the Green Agreement for Europe. According to the President of the Ursula von der Leyenová Commission, this is one of the main documents to be dealt with by the Commission in the following period. The Green Agreement for Europe is very much, I would say, dangerous material for us, for us as a country that has a large industry, whose energy is partly based on coal resources, partly on nuclear energy, as a country that has problems with bark. They will issue subsequently, and it has already begun, the climate laws that should implement the general Green Agreement. My question to you, Prime Minister, is what is your opinion personally, what is your Government's view of this Green Agreement for Europe, and how you will therefore involve the climate laws that the President of the Commission will now submit as its spokesperson, as its President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u19	Thank you for keeping up the time on the question of interpelation. The Prime Minister will answer this particular question. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u20	Well, from the 26 written interviews, and all I'm saying again is that if there's a written interpelation, I answer in writing, I don't understand why it turns into an oral. I answered that question. I think if you're tolerant, we can handle this in the oral questioning. And energy security... I'm sure we'll be happy to welcome you and Mr. Havlíček and Mr. Míl to the Office of the Government and tell you everything. It's our priority. I'm fighting for the core. So I don't know what you weren't happy about, but I'm sure we'd be happy to explain it to you personally. As for the Green Deal, today is the European Parliament, the promotional, the green one, when Europe has enough to worry about others. And the migration - it came to our words. V4 made it clear that we should protect the border and prevent illegal migration, so they are finally implementing it in Greece. Thus, the Czech Republic adopted a framework position on the European Green Deal Communication, which was drawn up in cooperation with economic and social partners and approved by the Government on 24 February 2020 and subsequently forwarded to both chambers which requested it. European Green Deal aims to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. In the conclusions of December of the European Council, the Czech Republic made a commitment to climate neutrality after we rejected it in June. And they promised us, the Transition Fund, that they couldn't get the money, and they wanted to take it out of our cohesion, so we made it clear to the Czech Republic that it was essential for the objective of achieving climate neutrality by 2050 to be legally enshrined at the level of the European Union and not at the level of individual Member States, because, of course, when France has 75 percent of the core, Sweden and Slovaks also in a short time, each country has a different position. The Czech Republic is committed to helping achieve a climate-neutral European Union by 2050, in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The conclusions of the European Council reflected the possibility of using nuclear energy as a possible strategy for achieving climate neutrality. The first European Green Deal initiative was presented yesterday, the so-called Climate Law, the European legal framework for the climate. The objective of this climate legal framework is also the path towards achieving the target by 2050. On the basis of a comprehensive impact assessment, the Commission will propose a new European Union target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. Once the impact assessment is completed, the legal framework for the climate is being amended. By June 2021, the Commission proposes to review all relevant relevant policy instruments and, if necessary, propose a revision thereof in order to allow for an additional reduction of emissions by 2030. The Commission proposes to establish a path across the European Union for the period 2030 to 2050 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in order to measure progress made and to ensure predictability for public authorities, businesses and citizens. By September 2023 and every five years thereafter, the Commission wishes to assess the consistency of Union and national measures with a view to achieving climate neutrality and trajectories for the period 2030 to 2050. The Commission could be empowered to make recommendations to Member States whose actions will not be in line with efforts to achieve climate neutrality. Member States would then be obliged to take due account of such recommendations, otherwise they will have to clarify the reasons for their actions. The Commission may also examine whether the trajectories and measures within the territory of the Union are appropriate. Member States will also have to develop and implement adaptation strategies to strengthen resilience and reduce vulnerability to the effects of climate change. This is a proposal for a regulation of the European Commission, the overall form and content of which will be decided by the Council of the European Union together with the European Parliament in the coming weeks. Since the proposal came out yesterday, the Czech Republic starts preparing the position at these moments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u21	Mr. Chairman, I must interrupt you. You will have to take advantage of the second minute after the additional question of the Zahradník who is going to do it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u22	I'm going to do some supplementing. It's all over again. You, Prime Minister, expressed yourself very strongly in Law on 11 January. You said that you would not have any green nonsense prescribed by the Commission and that you would sue the Commission for that New Green Deal. Which is quite a bold move. If you want to implement this, you will need the support of not only your faithful here in the coalition, or the support of the KSČM there, but also the entire House. So maybe you should talk to those people who think as much as you do about this, so maybe you should consult them and talk to them. So my proposal is that, let's try to find some consensus on how critically and truly responsible in terms of our country, in terms of our national interests, this Green Agreement. Do not really let the Commission impose any green nonsense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u23	Thank you for keeping time. The Prime Minister will answer the supplementary question. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u24	Of course I agree, but you forgot one thing had changed. And I fought at the European Council until 2:00 a.m. to write us into the conclusions core. They didn't want to write it. I was sitting next to the Austrian Prime Minister - yes, there wasn't a Kurz yet - and no one wanted to support me. But since we've got the blockage, I've put it through. For the first time in history, it is in the contexts, in the conclusions of the European Council, the core. I asked them if the word for them was - I don't know how to say it, yeah. And it wasn't a unit, and I pushed it through, and that's what we wanted. So we pushed through the core, it's there, they didn't want it, it was never there, and we pushed through the Just Transition Fund. But, of course, it turned out there that now they're telling us that the money - originally they told us that there... but it wasn't that we wanted the money to build the core, it would, of course, be solved by ČEZ as an investor. So I agree with you that we can't be total Green Deal fanatics and actually just have electric cars, and what happens to solariums, or hysteria, biofuels a long time ago, and so on. So, of course, we will be waiting to see how those results will turn out, because the European Commission is to publish the effects of an increase in the target by 2030 in the summer of 2020. And the Czech Republic does not support increasing the EU's reduction target by 2030 beyond the current 40 percent, okay? So we are fulfilling the climate-energy targets by 2020 and, of course, we want to apply the principle of technological neutrality. And there are certainly initiatives on biodiversity, zero pollution, industrial mobility and so on. So, first of all, we think about our economy, our companies, but of course -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u25	Prime Minister, time for a follow-up answer is over. I thank Mr Zahradník and the Prime Minister. And before I hand over the proceedings of the meeting, I state an apology to the President of the House, from Mr Martin Jiránek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u26	Good afternoon. We continue to interpel Mr. Roman Kubíček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u27	Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister. In February this year, a change in regional education funding was to be launched. The new system is intended to combine elements of cost and performance financing. Inter-regional differences in school financing should be balanced; the volume of funding should be better predictable. The breakdown of the budget is now to be carried out directly by the Ministry of Education and Youth, not by regional authorities through regional normatives. The size and field structure of schools in the regions, the financial intensity of support measures and the different level of pay of teachers should be taken into account in the distribution of money. Improvements are also expected in the case of non-teaching staff. However, they were concerned that this would not happen within the announced deadline, that is, in February 2020, it would not be able to do so. The school unions even doubted that the schools would receive above-standard salary components. Can you tell us what the real situation is to date? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u28	Thank you and I will ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u29	I didn't find the right base, but that's okay. I'd like to say that - and that's actually my story with Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. When I was still a member of the Budget Committee in November 2013, she came to me to change 300 million from agriculture to education, because there is no money. And I'm not going to name the finance minister who didn't put money on it. So, of course, we had a huge problem in the school infrastructure. It's a huge problem. And the problem is that in short, the dramatic increase in the population in Central Bohemia is mainly. That is why, when I joined my post, I introduced a program for schools, which I actually learned from the MP, and in the time that I was a minister - the MP was the mayor of Chyn, there was nothing at the time - for example, we invested about 300 million in the village, the school, they have a fantastic sports hall, the gym. [[Nesroz.]] And, overall, over the years 2014 to 2019, we invested in primary schools when it comes to total, and in children's groups and kindergartens, a total of CZK 27.3 billion. Yes, 27.3 billion crowns. And these were indeed programs for communities that actually created thousands, thousands of new places. For example, the Ministry of Education has a programme of 133310 - Development of teaching capacities of kindergartens and primary schools established by local authorities. The total allocation is 1,800 million and 149 events have been implemented within six calls. This means that the state of the grant at the end of the year was 1,586 million, yes. And basically, there are 114 new kindergarten classes with a capacity for 2 614 children, 149 new primary schools for 3 636 primary schools. So that's one program. Second programme 133330 - Support for selected projects for the development of basic education capacities established by municipalities and voluntary associations of municipalities, so-called ring 1. Its administrator is MŠMT. This means the implementation of 2016 to 2023. So there is an allocation of 1,661 million and five actions are implemented, the state of the subsidy 612 647 thousand and 115 new tribal classrooms will be created for 3 410 pupils. What you said about the change in regional education funding has been completed with the preparation of the actual start of a fundamental reform of the financing of regional education for local authorities, which will ensure a more transparent, predictable and fairer distribution of state budget funds in this area to the activities of individual schools and support the necessary qualitative change of the entire education system. [[15.10 hours]] The Ministry of Education published on 24 January 2020 amounts for individual schools in new funding. The data were published on the MŠMT website, each school also found them in an electronic data collection system. From published data on the MŠMT website, everyone can find out what amount was allocated by the Ministry from the state budget, individual schools and school groups, how much of this amount is due to the salaries of teachers and how much is payable to other school employees, what amount is due to the above-caliber component of the educator's salary, does not apply to primary art schools and higher vocational schools, how many jobs can be paid out of these funds. The published data cover all kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools, conservatoires, higher vocational schools and primary art schools, as well as pedagogical work in school associations established in the region, municipalities and voluntary associations of municipalities. At the turn of March and April, schools will then learn the amount for the activities of school establishments, including, in particular, school dining rooms, school clubs, leisure centres and the like, since the funds for these activities were allocated to the competent regional authority through regional standardizations. For better information to schools and officials in regional -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u30	Your time, Prime Minister. The Member obviously has an interest in asking an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u31	Thank you. Just so the Prime Minister can finish it. Prime Minister, just the question at the end, if you would answer me if you had any feedbacks back from those school unions that were afraid it wouldn't be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u32	There you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u33	I'd like to finish - feedback is good. Of course there are always concerns, but I don't think they're confirmed. So, in order to better inform schools and officials in the regions, the Ministry has also prepared a number of methodological materials, the principles of change in funding, regional education and the method of calculating individual breakdown parameters. These methodological materials are published on the web. Information mail was also created for the questioning of schools: reform@mšmt.cz. For schools and civil servants, MŠMT also held dozens of seminars throughout the Republic, attended by more than 9,000 people. Other seminars are now held for officials of municipalities with extended competence and regional authorities, at which these officials were informed of the principles of the budget schedule and the tasks that await them in the near future. The next round of seminars for school directors will follow in the spring, so that they can prepare well the organisation of the teaching of the new school year. The Ministry wrote CZK 147,96 billion into the area of regional education established by local authorities, of which 82,5 percent by the Ministry is addressed to individual schools and 16,1 billion is distributed to regional authorities through republics (?)normatives. Of the above 122 billion, 88.3 billion are allocated to salaries for more than 193 thousand employees. In January 2019, the normative breakdown, including funds for support measures, was set at 127.44 billion, i.e. 20,5 billion less. The reform of funding is sufficiently financially secured for 2020. To this end, the following additional resources were created in the budget of the MŠMT chapter for 2020: the field of pedagogical work of a total of 3.8 billion, the provision of overlay for kindergarten teachers and the extension of the period of kindergarten operation, the increase in quality of education thanks to the space given by PHmax, the increase in the scope of pedagogical work of primary schools and secondary schools, the field of non-teaching work...... 1 billion CZK and the increase in the number of non-teaching employees. [[Your time, Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u34	Thank you. Next, Mr Václav Votava, who I give the floor to give his intervention, was drawn with his intervention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Prime Minister, the coalition government approved YES and social democracy and passed a law to the House last November to tax the provision of selected digital services carried out in the Czech Republic. It is a response to a constantly recurring and never-ending debate within the European Union and the OECD, which cannot agree on a common approach in the long term. That is why we, like France, Italy, Austria, and the United Kingdom, have come to a national solution. And I must say that I personally support this solution, and I support digital taxation. The government agreed on a common procedure and the tax rate was set at 7 per cent, which, according to the Ministry of Finance's calculations, should yield the state budget about CZK 1.5 billion this year, and then in the following years the annual yield should be around 4 billion. Minister Schillerová also incorporated these revenues into the state budget for this year, and it should also be said that, despite repeated warnings of social democracy, the budget should not be built on income from laws that have not been passed through the legislative process. That's true, I'm sure. In the media, the Minister's comments have now been made, and this has not been discussed in the coalition, which I would expect him to want to reduce or propose a delay in the effectiveness of the law from this rate. I assume it's in response to Mr. King's U.S. Ambassador's threats. Prime Minister, I would like to ask your position on this matter. Do you personally agree with the proposals presented by the Minister? Members of the Budget Committee received a threatening letter from the Ambassador of the United States. I believe that there is some interference with the Czech Republic's affairs as a sovereign state. [[Your time, Mr. Ambassador.]] How do you feel about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u36	I thank you, and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u37	Well, thank you for your word. Well, of course, we intend to discuss it with the coalition. Unfortunately, there have been about two dates or three dates of the coalition, and there have always been holidays for some reason, the absence of people. We were supposed to have a coalition on February 3rd, I think on February 19th, now actually a coronavirus, we canceled it. So I'm sure we'll discuss this coalically. It is true that the digital service tax, I am of the opinion that if companies are in business here and have their headquarters outside the European Union, they should be taxed. And, of course, for these global companies, they were dealing with it, or they were trying to deal with the European Union. Mainly it was the initiative of France, we supported it and, unfortunately, there was no agreement within the European Union and then individual states began to deal with it individually and, of course, different responses were also recorded afterwards. In our country, the Ministry of Finance proposed a relatively high tax of 7 percent compared to other states and, of course, France had already de facto proposed a tax before us, and of course, there were official responses, there were various, say, threats, but the reaction of the US party by President Trump was very negative. Then some negotiations took place, and in the end, France said more or less that this would be dealt with on the basis of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, OECD. The proposal, of course, is not definitive and may change in the legislative process. We have seen various proposals to reduce the rate to 5 or 3 %. Spain has introduced, I think, 3%, Austria, if I remember, and I don't know exactly, either. And, of course, I repeat again that this will be the subject of the government coalition's negotiations. But it didn't happen for time reasons. This taxation of digital services - of course it is a matter that requires international coordination and international solutions, and the Ministry of Finance has long preferred international solutions and, of course, we are aware of the possible threat of introducing retaliatory measures by the United States. It is true that the Ambassador of the United States is developing activity in this regard, and not only him, but also the Chamber of Commerce, who is concerned that our investors or suppliers - and the US market or the United States market is important to us, and companies such as Zbrojovka Uherský Brod or LINET or KKCG, of course, have significant investments. And of course, there have now been various challenges to us to reconsider. Well, of course, the position of our entrepreneurs, exporters and exporters must also be perceived overall, because of course it could damage us. [[15.20 hours]] So we're going to discuss this in a coalition way. We still need to find positions within our partners, within the European Union. The Ministry of Finance is conducting negotiations with representatives of the European Commission for the purpose of coordination and it is true that no consensus has been found on the common procedure. So the bill is primarily based on the proposal for a European directive, it was discussed in the European Union, but the consensus is not there, there is a need for unanimity. And, of course, some states, these companies are also based there, so we need to see how France, Austria, Hungary proceed. There are debates about this, there are proposals, and of course we prefer solutions at international level. But we were expecting some global solution at OECD level. We're actively performing there, but it's just not clear yet. So -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u38	Your time, Prime Minister. Ambassador, are you interested in a follow-up question? That's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u39	In that letter, Mr. Ambassador says that those companies that are in business, large corporations, on the digital market, are discriminated against by accepting the tax. I don't think so. On the contrary, I think that Czech companies that operate on our market and also pay taxes are discriminated against. So it's fair that even these companies, even if of course have a domicil in America, pay a reasonable tax here. I just want to ask - there's going to be a budget blackout. You're gonna replace the blackout how? Now it's 1.5 billion, there could be four next year if we don't agree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u40	Thank you. And the Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u41	I agree with you, of course, but it must be said that this is a turnover tax. So it's not a classic corporate tax. So I agree with you that they're supposed to pay taxes here and that, of course, they're those companies like Google, Facebook and these big companies. So that is why it is a pity that, and we will re-initiate it, that the European Union should deal with it. So I agree with you that they should pay a tax. The question is above. We designed the highest. Spain introduced 3 %. So I assume we're gonna talk about this at the coalition. And of course, as far as the blackout goes, I don't see the blackout yet. But, of course, we also need to see the impact on our companies that export there. So that we don't have to put it in place, and we want it to, but then the United States will react not to allow our companies to export there, and then we'll lose money at our companies. So we need to, I think, even talk about it with the Chamber of Commerce, with the Union of Industry, we're going to have tripartite. But I'm sure I'd be happy to have our coalition partner give us that, because it's a risk, and I agree with you, and I'm telling you, let's talk about that amount. Because 7 percent is probably the highest design worldwide. But in principle, I agree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u42	Thank you and I am now giving the floor to Mr Valent, who is already at the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u43	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, the reason for the appeal of Minister of Transport Vladimír Kremlík was, according to your official statement, the fact that he did not manage the project of electronic road signs. Today, however, Mr Kremlík in interviews suggests that one of the reasons for his appeal might have been that you directly intervened in the management of the Czech Railways by being among them. he tasked the head of this business and his as Minister of Transport so-called. It pissed me off. Transport expert and former Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Czech Railways Petr Moos says that if this were true, this would be a very non-standard situation and conflict of interest. I don't even know what title you can drive the Czech Railways for. After all, it is pointless from the logic of the matter, and I personally believe that it is illegal for you to decide the course and personnel policy of the Czech Railways and then the Minister of Transport to bear only responsibility. Mr Kremlík also said that he did not agree with some personnel nominations and that some such persons then penetrated the Czech Railways was unacceptable to him. It should have been done, for example. about a person who has a connection to one of Prague lobbyists, which has been personally communicated to you as well as to the Deputy Prime Minister Havlíček, with an incentive for this to be examined, with regard to whether there are any negative phenomena in this context. I ask: Was this really checked out? In particular, whether you actually intervene in any way as Prime Minister in the running and personnel policy of the joint-stock company České dráhy. Your answer, of course, is very much in my mind, I just want it to be loud and clear on the microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u44	I thank you and the Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u45	I worked with Mr Kremlík at the Ministry of Finance. He was actually Mrs. Arajmu's right-hand Arajma at the State Representation Office in property matters. And now Mr. Kremlík is giving a lot of conversations. I suggest you watch him on social media, I just hear it, I think he needs to rest, that he's probably overworked. And of course it's nonsense. I don't drive the Czech Railways. I've never driven them. But if you'll excuse me, I can ask if I'm being approached by citizens or companies when something isn't working. And I can also ask about the Czech Post office or tomorrow morning at 7:00 p.m. I'm going to go to ŘSD and spend two hours there. And why wouldn't I do that? And conflict of interest - that is, of course, nonsense. So the Czech Railways have always been the subject that the traditional parties were sharing places there, there were always some MPs there, and now they're not there. And I don't know, the CEO of the Czech Railways, if it's Mr Kremlík's nomination. Or Mr. Kremlík put Mr. Kysilka in there. Mr. Kysilka is the head of the Supervisory Board today. Mr. Kysilka was at the Czech Export Bank. A reputable banker, so you can ask him, I'm definitely not involved. It's nonsense. I called off pan Kremlík because I learned from the media about the e-selling contract for 401 million freeway stamps. And immediately the criticism began. I didn't know anything about her, nobody informed us, the government didn't know. I was expecting the minister, the former minister, to immediately call off Mr., even the subordinates, his deputy, whom I called upon, but who had a relationship there, or the lady who also had a relationship. Or the head of IT who put in a $2 million contract for her husband who was eventually delivered to us as an expert. Well, he didn't, and I've asked him to cancel the contract several times. And he refused. So that's why, in the end, he didn't actually check it enough, the contract, so it turned out how it turned out. I'm sorry. Mr. Kremlík was a good clerk to me who always gave me an answer, fast, we worked. He's never been a politician, he's a civil servant, he's been there for a long time in the state administration, and he's basically worked well as a manager, and I have no regrets about him. But it just wasn't possible, it wasn't possible when the contract was justifiably criticized from all sides, and instead of replacing the civil servants, even if it's hard, under the civil service, but he should have done it, he simply agreed to the contract. And then we looked like idiots when somebody was organizing a hackathon. [[15.30 hours]] Tonight's contract, as far as I know, is rewritten, and it's going to cost 128 million. So 400, 128, so we're going to save 273 million. We'll save it. And it was clear, because there wasn't supposed to be a call center or an e-shop in the regime, and we stopped another contract from actually going to those distribution sites. So the officials made a clear mistake, and instead of executing them, the minister covered them up. And then I had to do it because it just was unsustainable. So I'm surprised he gives so many conversations to everything, writes books, sings, and I don't know what he's doing, but I'm telling you, it's nonsense. And I don't want to drive the Czech Railways, I've never driven. Of course, I take care of those state-owned businesses, because I fixed those businesses at the Treasury. When the 4 billion for land was stolen from the airport when the general got a 300 million reward there, yes, and when, of course, our predecessors were making a business out of it, those state firms like Mero, Chepro today, the airports are giving us billions of dividends. And we have a lot of businesses that are not in good condition, like Czech Post, and those Czech Railways certainly have - how many tens of billions in the Czech Railways have been stolen in the past? Why don't you care?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question. That's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u47	Thank you for your answer. Just so you don't think, Prime Minister, that I'm cooking out of the water, I'll make it clear to you. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš directly tasked the head of České dráhy, says in a comprehensive interview for Radiožurnál exministrál dopravní Vladimír Kremlík for ANO. What does that mean? Mr Kremlík responds: This means that I have been informed by the Director General of the Railways by Václav Nebeský about the situation always ex post. So it was not that I would direct the Czech Railways, which annoyed me as Minister of Transport, because the Ministry is running the railways and the Minister is supposed to drive them. Radiožurnal: We still do not get the idea of the country's Prime Minister running the Czech Railways. Mr. Kremlík answers: That's not a question for me, I'm sorry. So I just asked you because the question is up to you, so I asked you. Nothing more, nothing less.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u48	Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u49	One more time. Mr. Kremlík is no longer a ANO. He took the prime minister's post for YES. He was never in YES, he quit, we had nothing to do with him. He's got all sorts of comments on all kinds of things, you know that. All I'm saying is that the CEO of Nebeský is former Deputy Minister Dostálová. He's a digitization specialist, an IT specialist, yes, and I've also asked him to consult on digitization and recodification of building law, so I don't know why I couldn't do that. And I'm not doing any confrontations here. I think the things that went away from Mr. Kremlík are too much that turned out to be confusing. And of course, today's Cypriot company List of News that the owner here doesn't pay taxes, but he parked it on Cyprus, so she privatized it, and I learned the quasi-bribe from the media. And then the famous reporter who put Mrs. Jourová in jail on the basis of lies asked me if I filed a criminal complaint. Well, he should have passed! But he didn't! So instead of contacting the police, he was playing cowboy. He's doing it to himself, the News List. They go to Switzerland, break Swiss laws, film my son, lie from morning to night, still, yes?, even based on various information from Mr. Kremlík. And Dirty, why didn't they call the police? And did the reporter file a criminal report on the quasi-bribery? So please, the nonsense that's in space is too much right now. And I'm telling you again, I don't drive the Czech Railways -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u50	Thank you. [[The Prime Minister continues: and the Czech Railways have been robbed.]] Prime Minister, your time. [[Prime Minister: And tens of billions of land went away.]] Thank you for your answer. We have to keep going. [[Prime Minister: Try to care, I don't have time for this.]] Thank you. [[Prime Minister: And if I had time, I'd be interested.]] Thank you. We'll continue with the next interpellation. Next, Mr. Josef Kott was drawn. I'll ask him to give his interpellation to the government's measures against drought.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, today we have had the opportunity to hear reports on the barking calamity from both the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of the Environment, and this is closely related to the issue of drought. In the last few years, it has become almost the rule that the Czech Republic has been affected by extremely warm and dry summers, in which not only nature suffers, but also threatens the supply of many municipalities with drinking water and causes serious damage to Czech farmers. Unfortunately, the current unusually mild course of winter with minimal snowfall suggests that even this year we can probably expect a significant drought and general lack of water. I would therefore like to ask you what measures the government is already taking in the fight against drought and on which it intends to implement in the near future. It is more than obvious that drought is one of the biggest problems that our country is already facing and will certainly face in the coming years. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u52	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u53	Absolutely. Thank you for asking. Dryness is the result of climate change. We're aware of that. We have a national coalition against drought. I think Minister Brabec and Toman's tandem works very well. We, of course, have the drought problem, the solution, been going on, the drought has been going on for the last few years, and it is one of our government's key priorities. According to the current data of the Czech Hydrometeorological Institute through the collision-rich February, when it rained and snowed about twice the long-term normal, it persists at places of saturation of the soil up to 50 percent of the water capacity used and, above all, the state of groundwater remains subnormal and highly subnormal in a large part of the territory. So far, it seems that even this year the drought may not end, and therefore the government and, above all, the Ministry of the Environment and Agriculture will not let up in their efforts this year. Providing sufficient drinking water for citizens, greater water retention in the countryside is the country's highest public interest. Fast projects that bring immediate effect are key, so new sources of drinking water in the village in the form of wells or their strengthening, pools, wetlands, ponds, small water tanks are projects that maintain water in the landscape and fill underground resources. These projects are supported by the Ministry of Environment from European and national sources. The new or better source of drinking water was thus obtained by 450 municipalities, which received support of CZK 500 million. This year, the Ministry of the Environment would like to support up to 200 additional applications for CZK 250 million. European funds also support the completion of water networks and drinking water carriers. The great Dešťovka programme aimed at promoting rainwater management, designed for both municipalities and individuals, continues. More than 6.5 thousand projects for approximately 277 million crowns were approved in Dešťovka for natural persons in two invitations with a total allocation of 540 million crowns. In Dešťovka we register 44 approved projects with a total subsidy of CZK 136 million. However, both applications are received in both programmes and the funds are secured. Thousands of other measures against drought are also supported by the Ministry of Environment. Only in 2019 it was 6 574 projects with support of CZK 4.5 billion. With support, we will continue this year, and the implementation of measures against drought is one of the priorities of a new operational programme of the environment. [[15.40 hours]] We also need to respond to drought by changing legislation, and I am pleased that the Chamber of Deputies is already discussing an amendment to the water law prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture and the environment, which will enable the State to respond operationally to the risk of drought, including increasing the necessary competences. One amendment to the proposed amendments is, inter alia, to strengthen the competence of the water authorities so that they can adjust the applicable water management permits in response to drought in the necessary and justified cases. I hope that the amendment to the Water Act will soon be approved so that it can be effective from next year. A number of measures are also implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture. The Vlachovice reservoir in Zlinsko is intensively prepared, land purchases and the preparation of the territorial decision are underway. In the region of Rakovnicka and Žatecka the preparation of dam reservoirs Kryra, Senomaty, Šanov and the transfer of water from Ohře, which would solve the lack of water in this area of collision shadow. The Moravia basin is also preparing a future increase of 35 centimeters in the level of New Mill's tanks. With greater intensity, we must also focus on connecting water systems. In August 2018, the National Coalition for the Fight against Dryness was founded by Minister Brabc in order to coordinate state action in the fight against drought. Minister Brabec informed me that he intends to initiate its early call so that we can evaluate the performance of the tasks set and determine the priorities of the next procedure for this year. I personally participate in the negotiations of the National Coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u54	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask if the Member is interested in an additional question. That's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u55	I would also like to ask you an additional question about what you were talking about here, Prime Minister. As the water level in the Czech Republic is significantly reduced, the maximum use of surface water of water tanks, which primarily serves for water retention, and thus for drinking purposes, will certainly be very important. One of the greatest water cannons is Turtle, where you were, of course. There is a three-year project of positive motivation for farms operating in protection zones. It must be said that they receive $50 million a year to be more economical there. So my question is whether the government is ready to deal with such support elsewhere within the Czech Republic, as you said, that other water tanks will be built.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u56	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u57	I don't know the detail, but I think Minister Toman is dealing with it. We visited it, we talked to the damaged companies, so I assume it's the same approach. And perhaps it would be better to intersect Minister Toman. But as far as I know, he's prepping it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u58	Thank you. Next, Mr Radek Koten has been drawn and will present his interview with the Prime Minister - the theme of the World Cup.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u59	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I regularly follow the development of the situation regarding the current World Cup in the Biathlon in New Town, Moravia, and I follow, above all, the arguments that are put up both for and against the audience's participation in these races. But I do not want to deal with this now, because it is clearly already decided. However, as many local entrepreneurs and businessmen suffer quite significant damage by this decision, I am interested in your progress in terms of terms and ways of compensation for such damage by the state. Since the decision to exclude spectators is very crucial for the city of the size of the New Town in Moravia and is sensitively perceived, I intercede to resolve the question of compensation within the shortest time limit and to the maximum extent possible. I beg you to answer my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u60	I thank you and the Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u61	Thank you for asking. Please, the coronavirus. Believe me, we're dealing with him. And it wasn't an easy decision. And it wasn't just our decision. There is the chief health care officer of the Czech Republic, independent, epidemiologist, real expert, Deputy Minister of Health Mr.Prymula. And I've been to that race several times. And it's a great race. I was thinking of going there, but unfortunately, the risk was really huge. There was a big debate here in the House, we thought the opposition would calm people down, not ask us incredible questions about why we don't deal with the subway and all that nonsense. Please, I'd like to say the essential thing. We must prevent the coronavirus that we have today, say, in three or four groups, from spreading uncontrolledly across the country. Today, of course, a 68-year-old German tourist, who was a spectator at the Biathlon World Championship in Anterselva, participated with a group of 46 visitors in the Biathlon World Championship, where he commuted by shuttle every day. And there were 20,000 spectators. Well, imagine if there was a biathlon, and now somebody's gonna be there and there's gonna be some kind of transmission. 'Cause why didn't we come down to banning other actions? Because there was no transmission within the Czech Republic among Czech citizens. Now I see here information that even the Italian kid who was hospitalized in Karlák today has no corona, but positive is the father, they're both on Bulovka. So the baby couldn't infect anyone in Karlák, that's still misinformation. Praise be to God those children where it was originally that school would close, so it turned out negative. So we have three groups here, three families on skis, there are actually three infected today, we have an American student who went from Budapest to Prague to Brno. Airbnb. Like when I read those people's questions, that's why Airbnb. Well, because we don't know the owners of the apartments. We have called hoteliers, hostel owners, receptionists, hotel managers: pay attention to who comes there, ask where they were. Yeah? 'Cause the minute you get a hit at the hotel, the hotel's going into quarantine, and your business is over. Well, that's logical. I don't get it, really, when it comes to the health of our people, why there's always a problem and questions to be asked. And why didn't you ban all the action? Well, because there was no transmission. But the risk of the biathlon was enormous. Huge. So the race will be without spectators. Yesterday there was a meeting between Biathlon's boss Hamza and Plaga, and the state is contributing, so we're dealing with it. Of course, the organizers will return the tickets to the citizens, and of course we will try, even if by law... What does the law say? And the Minister of Health decided on the basis of the Public Health Act - it is true that the costs incurred in fulfilling public health obligations are borne by the person to whom the obligation is imposed. Yeah? But we say no, we want to deal with it. It's an emergency, it's important. It is important that the virus is simply not uncontrolled in our country, because then it is really a problem, as it is in other countries. Look at the numbers in the big countries. Italy 3 089, Germany 350, France 285, Spain 250. It's all growing. Of course, now my parents will be coming back from Italy, on vacation. And we continue to appeal: hygiene -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Your time is up. The Member is interested in an additional question, it will be possible to complete the information. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u63	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, I understand all the reasons that led to these measures, and I would like to say that this was a very prudent solution, because if we see how many people come from these areas of Italy and what is the great danger there is, of course, at this race, where there could be up to 100,000 people within three or four days, that would be a really great risk. However, this is mainly about the economic impact of those entrepreneurs who are connected to the race and who, of course, certainly have some supplies bought, which, of course, cannot be processed right now, caused them some damage. So it was the question that was directed rather to this space so that the entrepreneurs could at least have some assurance that the state, although it was, of course, inevitable, would be able to take care of them in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u64	Mr. Ambassador, thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u65	Sure. I understand. I don't want to make any promises here. But I'm sure... We've got a meeting tomorrow with the chieftains, Mr. Governor Běhounek, who also contributes to this as a county. I'll ask him. Let's ask Mr. Hamza how it is. Of course, the organizers get money for broadcasting rights and so on. But I'm sure there's a loss, so first of all, we'll deal with them. But I'm sure we'll have some other things brought in. But, of course, it's complicated. But let's see what extent it is and what we can actually do for these entrepreneurs. So I'll keep you posted if we have information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u66	Thank you, Prime Minister. And Mrs Jarošová will be the next to give her intervention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u67	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I have a question about the Lusatia Hospital in Rumburk, which, as you know, is in trouble. This medical facility provides health care for approximately 55,000 patients and the 100% owner of the hospital is the city of Rumburk. Unfortunately, the hospital is currently in insolvency and has entered into bankruptcy claims on 90 entities in the total amount of about CZK 89 million. The hospital has long been struggling with a lack of qualified personnel. One of the reasons may also be the possibility of working in a better-paid nearby Germany, and the hospital lacked the necessary number of performances for which it would receive payments from insurance companies. But I guess the problem was bad management too. Today the situation is such that it is suspended or suspended from 1 February 2020 the operation of internal and surgical departments, surgical ambulances, and internal ambulances are limited. Several meetings took place with Regional Health, which could take over Lužice Hospital and integrate it into the network of its facilities providing health care in the Ústí Region. But this logically makes the city of Rumburk liable as a 100% owner of the hospital. And here's the stumbling block. If there is no bailout from the state, because the city of Rumburk is not likely to do so, then health care in Lužická hospital will not be maintained and 55,000 citizens will remain without health care. Hospitals without assistance and without intervention by the state will slowly and certainly end and citizens and the remaining staff live and work in uncertainty. Prime Minister, is there any way that the government would help the hospital with debt relief, and that would help preserve it? Or any other help from the government with a transfer under County Health?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u68	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u69	Thank you for asking. I know the problem, of course. I visited the hospital. The problem, of course, is how we have the hospitals structured. We have a system under the Minister of Health - those are the faculty, the 16 spinal ones. And we have regional, we have 13 regions, because the region Prague de facto has no hospital. He's got some property on Bulovka, and I think there's a little hospital at František. And the problem is, of course, they still have cities. And of course, by getting custody money and preparing the DRG system to straighten it out, because the big ones get more for the same operation, there are problems. Of course, I and the Minister of Health consider the preservation of acute bed care in Rumburk to be very important. And already last year we managed to increase payments for health services provided through health insurance companies. At the same time, we were repeatedly promised to take over the hospital in Rumburk from the Ústí Region, its subsidiary Regional Health. I don't know if you know this, but I organized a meeting right at the Office of the Government. There was a councilman from the county, there was a mayor, there was a deputy VZP, there was a minister of health. We all made a clear deal and left the meeting that the city would debt the hospital and that it would then take over, VZP would simply put such money there, and it wanted to guarantee that the hospital would be operational. And I understand that this is, of course, a large area, that health care in that area is not sufficient. Yes, there is a problem that paramedics work in Germany. Yes. And that's what we were promised. And the city of Rumburk just didn't keep the deal. And we all agreed. And the county, the councilman instead of making the phone call right away, the boss was on vacation somewhere. We've made time with the Minister of Health, and basically no action. And then, unfortunately, the hospital didn't keep the deal, and the hospital found itself in insolvency. Yes. So, according to the latest reports, the insolvency administrator has decided to proceed to monetize bankruptcy under very lucrative conditions for any new provider and at the starting price of CZK 63 million, the acquirer will acquire the necessary buildings and equipment. And the great advantage is that the new provider can also switch to highly qualified and reliable medical and non-medical personnel. At the same time, it is guaranteed to maintain generous payments and contractual relationships, including financial support for urgent care and Bonnification of health services in areas with limited availability. I don't know the name of the deputy from the VZP, but I was sitting there, and he promised. We were all set. And, of course, we appeal, I mean, I don't, but maybe the minister, or whoever's sitting in the organs, I don't know... We have to keep this hospital going at all costs. So I just want to point out that the acquirer is going to get the assets. So, of course, the entire property being acquired is cleared of all the debts that have been made so far. So he gets the assets. There are no debts. Yes? The submission of envelopes with an offer must be made by 30 April 2020. And I hope and firmly believe in the wise and responsible decision of the Regional Council to make an appropriate offer. We can't order this county to do anything. We're just saying that if we have this complex system of hospital networks, we should only have two. One is the Ministry of Health and the other is the county. This means, for example, that Litoměřice should buy Regional Health and Rumburk. And, of course, in Plzeň we have... [[Mr President, thank you.]] ...and all the city--
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u70	Please note that, according to Section 111, the last question to the Prime Minister may be raised by 16.00. Madame, you'll be able to make it, but I don't think you'll get an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u71	I just want to thank you for your answer. I'm glad the government isn't indifferent to the fate of this hospital, and I'm hoping for an early and positive solution to this problem, because time is playing against this hospital. Take it that the people of this region have it all the way from this area. The rides are 30-40 kilometers and it's really a problem and it needs to be maintained, in some way, done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u72	The time has passed - it is 4:00 p.m. I thank you all, and now we will continue with oral interpelations on other members of the government. I will ask Mr Jakub Janda to give an interview to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u73	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, according to data from the Czech Statistical Office, 8 million square metres of modern industrial halls and warehouses currently occupy. Over the last decade, it's roughly a double increase in the area taken. Moreover, investors are estimated to want to build more than 4 million square metres over the next five years, primarily on agricultural land. These warehouses take up space for areas that can be used as an agricultural field and can contain thousands of liters of water, namely 3.5 cubic meters of water per hectare. However, agricultural territories are used for the construction of warehouses and halls even though developers have dozens and maybe hundreds of brownfields at their disposal, whose use is supported by your ministry with considerable funding in grant titles. That is why I ask you, Minister, how do you want industrial warehouses to be built in places that are primarily intended for this, i.e. in brownfields, and whether you have any other tool besides subsidies that could prevent this trend of concreteization.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u74	Good afternoon. And I am now calling on the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport, at the same time, Karel Havlíček, to launch a block of government response to the interpelation of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u75	Mr President, honourable Members, our Ministry, and now I mean the Ministry of Industry and Trade, sees the existence of brownfields as a very serious economic, social and environmental problem, but at the same time as a major challenge. I called it a problem because the regeneration of all areas, which we call brownfield, is extremely expensive and the revitalization is quite demanding from the point of view of both financial and time, and therefore the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and we are not alone, this is common in other countries, whether they are more or less burdened with grant programs, so we support. We support them to combine pleasant and useful, meaning that brownfields are used, ad one, and ad two, to serve entrepreneurs or industry for serious purposes. I think we can agree that that makes sense. Probably the most used program is the OP PIK program, which is called Real Estate. It is a programme that supports the modernisation of obsolete and technically non-compliant buildings for the implementation of various supported economic activities, or it is also in the sense of replacing different new buildings for business, in particular the segment of smaller and medium-sized entrepreneurs. It's a very popular program. For information, it's allocated 3.9 billion. CZK 1.95 billion for this period and paid for is already 1.95 billion. In total, three calls have been made, which have included a number of specific interesting programmes, sub-programmes, etc., and are now being received in two specific calls. At the same time with CzechInvest we have prepared a program called Restart. It is also very popular, interesting. It is attended by small municipalities, which can thus receive up to 95 percent of eligible expenditure. The Restart program is specifically a national program called literally and into the letter Regeneration and business use of brownfields. As the programme already suggests, it is intended for regions that are economically troubled areas, namely the Moravian-Silesian, Ústecký and Karlovarský region. Specific challenges have already been announced in this programme, namely three challenges, and 13 projects have been selected, the fourth call is now underway and applications are being submitted. The Brownfields problem is quite extensive and it is essential to coordinate it across the resorts so that there are no different unnecessary overlaps in interventions and perhaps some interesting problematic circuits do not escape, and therefore we have also prepared a National Brownfield regeneration strategy 2019 to 2024, which is not just some document, it is quite a practically used manual, plan, instructions to actually proceed in a coordinated manner, and for this overall concept, or strategy, or rather a vision are designed clear, pragmatic, understandable measures, which therefore quite responsibly combine the cooperation of the institutions concerned, including different deadlines of implementation, etc. Of course, it is not just about subsidies or support, it is generally about creating a favourable business environment. This is simply due in general to our firms' desire to invest at all, because the brownfield is about innovation, they must invest, they must not be afraid to embark on demanding projects, which we support not by subsidies, but we support this in fact a whole range of instruments from innovative support tools through export support tools, which is not a subsidy issue, but it is specifically a matter related to the activities of CzechTrade, CzechInvest, Ministry of Industry and Trade, Ministry of Foreign Affairs in individual regions, we are creating a comprehensive export support system, we are creating an investment support system based on sectoral support, not territorial support, as it was last time. In other words, we focus on specific sectors that we take from innovation to investment to exports to create a favourable business environment, and we have underlined all this by quite a substantial reduction and gradual reduction of administration, especially for the smallest businesses and possibly for businessmen, although it is true that brownfields are not strictly related to businessmen, but rather to medium-sized companies and then larger companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u76	Thank you, and I see you've had a very timely performance, because you've made great use of your time. So I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question. You do. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u77	I want to thank the Minister for his reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u78	Would you like to respond again, Minister? He doesn't. So now I give the floor to Mr Rak Koten, who was drawn in second place, to present an oral interview to Minister Jan Hamáček, who is absent. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u79	Mr President, Minister - absent, ladies and gentlemen, a report appeared in the media a few days ago about a brutal assault on a man who stood up in a tram of an older woman with sticks in Liberec. The police asked for help in finding the perpetrators, but in the report did not specify further details of the perpetrators, i.e. ethnicity, hair color, etc. Another, already older case, when Prague CSIs arrested and accused two people in connection with the fall of a 54-year-old man to the subway station, which occurred at line B of Andel, i.e. a man who did not survive the metro, according to witnesses, the perpetrators pushed the track. But given the age of the perpetrators, the police refused to comment on the case further. Citizenship, ethnicity, and sex of the detainees have not been specified. It is also not yet clear what crime the police have accused a couple of. These arguments and not informing the public in the interests of political correctness merely create speculation as to who the perpetrator is, and so we come to the German model, where the Minister of the Interior even denies the exponentially growing criminal activity of illegal migrants. If he stands on the side of thugs and murderers and doesn't inform the public truthfully, I'm afraid there's a very thin line to radicalize it. Why is the public not adequately informed in these cases and important facts are withheld? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u80	And since the Interior Minister Jan Hamáček is not present, he will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. So now I give the floor to MP Pavel Jelínek, who was drawn in third place, to present oral interpellation to Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u81	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, a former member of the Council of the Czech Republic and an ex-Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade, Ondřej Malý, expressed in the press that fifth generation networks are not yet meaningful. They are pushed only by suppliers of telecommunications technology and naughty politicians. At the same time, there is no 5G network application that would need fifth generation networks and hope for some mass expansion. Does the Ministry of Industry and Trade have a processed analysis of the needs of 5G technologies and an analysis of the risks associated with the introduction of the technology? In addition to the need for this technology in the game, there is also the issue of cyber security due to the constant cyber incidents in our country. The emergence of the Internet of things directly linked to the 5G technology, which, by the way, is a necessary condition for it, will increase the risk of cyber attacks several times. The government is prepared to face such a challenge, or Mr Malý is right, according to which it is politicians who lobby for 5G technology - and I quote: They have made it out of 5G networks, a wholesome solution that solves the wonder of not world famine and brings peace. Politicians were influenced by lobbyists of operators who wanted to use 5G to gain much more spectrum at the expense of other players, in the US, for example at the expense of satellite operators and in Europe at the expense of television broadcasting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u82	There. Now the Minister has the floor. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Malý is wrong again. But it's not important that I now discuss his marketing-oriented articles that relate to the company that just had the bad luck that she didn't get her license at the 5G auction that he lobbied for. But in a matter of fact. 5G is a global phenomenon that we didn't make up here. It's just a thing that goes from the United States to Asia to Europe. We can talk about whether, to some extent, the 5G isn't a little bit, let's say, just a marketing brand, a brand, but that's not the point. The important thing is that high-speed infrastructure needs to be built. And let's say that this is the basis for online services and the building of a digital economy on which I believe we agree that it is the basis for whether we call it a 4.0 economy - and that, among other things, is questioned and some say that the economy of 4.0 or business 4.0 is in its own way, it is not the fourth revolution of industrial, but it is de facto the continuation of the third, and we could then say that if the third industrial revolution, parking, where it is correctly written. It's just some new technology, and we need to adapt to these technologies gradually. The second thing is what we call them. That's not the point. The important thing is that if we called it high-capacity networks, fifth-generation networks, then we need to be prepared to be able to implement them so that we can cover the territory of the Czech Republic, just as all other countries, developed countries, do. And we figured we were a country for the future. That's not a declaration, that's a fact. We want to build our company on smart infrastructure, smart solutions. We want to build it on 5G, artificial intelligence. We want to build it on research, on development. We want to build it on the Czech Republic, our companies are able to generate added value, which is the basis for profitability, and this is the basis for good wages, which is the basis simply for a stable environment. The fact that we have also reached the top economical point in Europe over the last few years does not mean that we will be there in the next few years. And we'll be there if we create a good base for our companies to generate products with higher added value. We believe that digitization and new technologies based on the convergence of fixed networks and wireless high-speed technologies are the basis for this. So this is why we are - and we are trying to be pioneers in Europe. I must say that the European Commission, as we can sometimes a little bit from the bureaucratic point of view, shall we say, even slightly dehonest that it is sometimes too bureaucratic and administratively oriented and that it is not practical, so in this case it respects the fact that the Czech Republic is one of the leaders in this area. Our 5G strategy has been very positively adopted by other countries, which are very, very strong in this area. I must say that, together with Germany, we have signed a major deal on the 5G corridor between Prague and Munich as key cities in Central Europe, where there is a large exchange on the basis of commercial goods, on the basis of services, on the basis of university cooperation. We have developed a concept based on smart cities, 5G for five cities. And here we put it back together with the Italians, so it wouldn't just be about Germany. We came from a model of 5G cities... five cities for 5G technology from Italy. It's an amazing project that works perfectly there, and it's focused on speeding up traffic. I mean the acceleration of communication in the field of transport, traffic management, the perfect services in the field of health, social services, education, industry. Those cities also started building there and started explaining to the public, and I think it's very important what 5G is. That it is not Mrs Columbová, that it is not something virtual that may be used by the big businessmen, but that it is a completely natural thing that serves simply to serve small towns, which serve to ensure the safety and security of municipalities, to strengthen the security of the regions. Which serves not only for the rapid exchange of information and data processing, but which serves to ensure that we have better social care, that we will have, say, better and more comfortable transport and that we will be able to really focus on the most demanding technologies in industry and we will be able to include ourselves in those value chains that are, for example, between us and German companies. Because we probably agree that Germany is one of the pioneers of new technologies in the area of 4.0, and, among other things, 5G technologies should be very, very helpful. So I hope I've made that clear enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u84	So I am now asking the honourable Member whether he is interested in an additional question. So, Mr Pavel Jelínek. Please. Your minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u85	Thank you for the explanation. It's a global phenomenon, we can agree on that. Like the Internet, things that are basically very closely related to this technology here. However, a shift to technology, i.e. virtually. to the Internet of things, means that each thing will have one of its own, though not high, but low such autonomy, intelligence and unfortunately the possibility of, for example, attacking cyber, in some way endangering the functionality of the 5G network. And if we're ready for it. I'd like us to be. But it's just that the danger of cyber attacks will spread to basically every car, every fridge, if I overdo it. So if we really have the strength to keep this network safe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u86	Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u87	Yes, thank you. I am convinced that we are ready for this, even if it is necessary, and I am aware of it, but not only I, but the more qualified realize that 5G - in general, the new technologies, such as the artificial intelligence, are a huge opportunity and at the same time a threat. There's no doubt about it. And today, superpowers are introducing these technologies not only for economic growth, but at the same time for strengthening security. Among other things, this is why, for example, in the area of artificial intelligence, we have written a national topic which is specifically aimed at security. In English citizen safety and security, i.e. security and protection of urban residents and institutions, companies. This is extremely important. And if we just keep up with the latest technologies, they should serve us right now, and more and more, to protect and secure our country and our institutions. So we realize that. We don't enter into commercial relationships. The task of the state is to build the foundations for the infrastructure to be built, which, of course, is built by commercial companies, commercial institutions. Of course, we, and from the perspective of state security, will have a very strong view of who and how it builds up here, we must respect these rules. But to some extent, market rules and rules of competition must also be respected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u88	I now give the floor to Mrs Karla Maříková, who was drawn in the fourth place, to present oral interpellation to Minister Vojtěch Adam, who is absent. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent minister, the Czech Republic has other cases of coronavirus. One of them is a patient who, after her doctor refused to test her for coronavirus because she was not indicated for this examination, approached a private laboratory where it was confirmed that she had a positive test. You're criticizing this, telling everyone to test themselves as they see fit. I understand that the laboratory did not have a quality certificate and such laboratories should not carry out such tests. On the other hand, if the patient, after refusing to take the test for this examination, was still in the vicinity of the patient, the virus could be moving on happily. Isn't your criticism a cover-up of a failing system, a failure of a doctor, and a failure of all the measures your government is taking? How are you going to identify patients after this case for a specific examination? The state pays CZK 5,000 for the coronavirus test. The test in private labs costs 1264. How do you explain such a large different price? Is the situation really that serious? Since many experts have already said that everyone will meet with Coronavirus sooner or later. Even cardiothoracic surgeon Jan Pirk said it would be best to infect the coronavirus and get the right immunity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u90	Well, that's a tough one. Okay, so sit face-to-face. Now you've asked me a really tough question. I don't think you can answer that. But great. So, however, Minister Adam Vojtěch will respond in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days, although the Prime Minister is already sitting here with Mrs Maříková and also telling her something. Let's move on. I now give the floor to a Member who has been drawn in fifth place. He is Member Jan Zahradník and it will be an interview with the present Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u91	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. A little politics first. The Prime Minister is very critical of the Green Agreement. At the same time, all six Members voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution on the Green Agreement. First of all. Now, Minister, how do you look at the problems contained in the Green Agreement? For the purposes of the Energy Taxation Directive, for example, the transition from unanimity to a qualified majority is considered without amending primary law. Then there is the issue of supply clean, affordable and safe energy. There they play a key role in renewable resources, according to the text mainly wind energy from offshore marine areas. I do not know if the Commissioner is aware that we do not have any off-shore coastal areas in our country, except on the shores of Lipno or Orlické dam. There's not a word about nuclear power, but also oddly enough, not a word about photovoltaic. Finally, just to show you, the chapter of Industrial Activation for a Clean Circulation Economy. By 2030, the production of zero carbon steel is to be ensured. Do they expect a dramatic increase in electricity consumption? Finally, there is a single market for secondary raw materials, so we should be interested in this before we fully approve the Waste Act, so how will the European Commission and its sometimes very strange proposals enter into this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u92	I will now ask for the speech of Minister Karel Havlíček. Please, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u93	Thank you so much for asking. Green Deal and everything about the Green Agreement are, of course, one of the most discussed topics, and I think that it is widely known that the Czech Republic is one of the most radical, at least at the level of the European Council, because I must say that whenever at least I am going, or when the Prime Minister is going, but even if our Minister of the Environment is going, we are maintaining a rational position, we are not being completely swayed by the green waves of contemporary Europe, and we are trying to look at this from a pragmatic point of view, but at the same time with clear environmental ambitions. That means we don't give up on ambition, and we even understand that we have to act very soberly and we have to do something for the environment, and we have to do something for the environment, and we have finally signed up for that ambition in 2050, but we have a big problem with the ambition in 2030. From our point of view, it's unmanageable. I say this very frankly, because if we look at CO2 emissions within the Czech Republic, they are based on 40 per cent energy, 20 per cent industry and 15 per cent transport, that is 75 per cent major. If we were to meet the ambitions, not the reduction, after the 40 percent previously agreed and long respected by 2030 that we are fulfilling, and when we look, the Czech Republic, unlike some other European countries that criticize us, but do not fulfill this, we do, I repeatedly say, so we were even ready to be a little bit better in 2030. We said it wouldn't be 40, but maybe 43, 42, 44 percent. These were some ambitions that were based on the structure of the economy, from a pragmatic point of view. Ambition, which today suggests that Europe should move to 50 in 2030, if not 55, and even sometimes such proposals fall, that it should be even more, so for the reasons that I have said, they are unrealistic, because, in a simple way, we are moving towards the core gradually, but the transition is of course not immediate, building a nuclear source is a question of 15 to 20 years, which means that optimistic estimates are sometime around 2036, which, of course, is far above 2030. And catching up with the so-called renewable energy is unrealized purely for that reason, if we are to further reduce what we are dealing with under your assistance within the coal commission, that is to say, the coal downturn. That means we always have to look at it from the point of view that we need another source here, so we can't keep everything down, at the same time not have a core, and at the same time only jump on new green sources. Notaben, what you mentioned here, the wind is virtually unrealistic for us, not because we don't like it, but Germany, which today, if I am not mistaken, 30,000 wind power plants, we have 130 of them in the Czech Republic, so it is given, of course, geographically, with us the share of wind is 0.2 %. And if we triple it by 2030, let's admit we're somewhere less than 1%. This will have no effect on the total volume. So we in the Green Deal for 2030 are sober, among other things, not only from the point of view of energy, because we have to maintain self-sufficiency, but also from the point of view of the structure of industry. We are the second most industrialised country in Europe over Ireland through gross added value, about the same as Germany, and again, 25 megatons of CO2 released annually by our industrial companies, we cannot simply change it in half by 2030, which would therefore involve where we should get to with Green Deal's ambition of 50-55 percent. First of all, we can't order businesses to do what they're supposed to do, and if we do that to them, we're gonna destroy the domestic industry here. We need to create an environment for them to switch to new technologies, which is fine, and we are doing this within our activities. I think that few governments have launched so many innovative programmes and innovation challenges for the transition to new technologies here, but it also takes a number of years. And then let's not forget the other area, and that's right. Simply and simply, Europe's ambitions in the field of transport are one thing; reality is another. If we have 5.5 miles in the Czech Republic. cars in the vast majority on internal combustion engines, so we can't expect to revolutionize here by 2030, and we'll have 20 percent of cars in so-called net mobility. From our point of view, we're going to be moving around 3-4 percent, and I think there's still quite a lot of ambition. All of this, when we add up, it is clear that 2030 - we still have to insist on our ambition somewhere between 40 and 45 per cent towards the Paris Agreement, and that is what we stand for and what we say firmly at European Commission level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u94	I've tolerated a little extra time. I am now asking if the Member is interested in an additional question. He does. So please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u95	No, I'm not asking any questions. I just want to say that this will be dealt with by the Committee on European Affairs on 18 March. I'm sure your people will be there to discuss it with us. We're going to draw up an opinion that, let's say, reflects the majority opinion that it is. The question is whether there would be a material as serious as this that could have such consequences, including the climate laws that are being prepared, here at the House plenary. Maybe we should consider that. To agree whether by any resolution we would not support your role as negotiator or Prime Minister in the European Council on any position on this Green Agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u96	The Minister has the floor. He's interested in filling in. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u97	Very short supplement. As part of the upcoming national economic strategy we are preparing, the impact of Green Deal on the Czech industry, on Czech energy will also be part of it. It will also include the impact of Greed Deal on the Czech industry, on Czech energy, so in a few months we should have a comprehensive quality material that describes the impact of Green Deal on the Czech economy. I think that this is an extremely important material that should be a starting point not only for the future vision of our economy, but also for us to start working on specific data, what it might actually mean to any of us. Because one thing is vision and ambition, the other thing is when we see it in black and white and see what it would mean for employment, what it would mean for performance, what it would mean for export, what it would mean for the prosperity of the entire country, which we have built here in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u98	I now call for the speech of Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, who is drawn as the sixth, to present oral interpellation to Minister Alena Schillerová. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, I wanted to ask why there was a change in the structure of information on the implementation of the state budget. I was just looking at the February numbers on the Treasury website. The information provided for February 2019 was significantly more detailed, there were comments on the development of tax collection and on lower-volume taxes, for example information on how the state budget balance had developed since 1994, not only since 2015. Overall, the material was informationally far richer. I wanted to ask you why you cut it off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u100	Madam Secretary Alena Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u101	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Member, I'd be happy to answer your question, and I think I'll find some sympathy for you, with a modern man. That press release about the cash-flow in the shape it was in until the end of last year, it was de facto there for long, long years. I didn't find out how long. And it already contained a whole series of ballasts. I'll bet my shoes, and I'll leave them here right away, that nobody's actually read it. Since about mid-2019, I've had a double page made that preceded all the other seven parties that were there, and we've just been spending time reading the press release. It was so short that no one could read more than the two sides. And I didn't want to change the rules of the game, I've been thinking about it for months. I didn't want to change the structure other than since New Year's, 'cause I thought, "There's just something going on here, and let's make it a different, modern structure." We did that in January. Of course, we have listened to a number of critical comments. I accepted them, and the February one was corrected for the comments. And I'm just being totally friendly about what you're missing? There is absolutely everything, plus part of this press release are revenue structure, expenditure structure, in detail, and there are seven annexes. Seven attachments. Cash transactions for January to February 2020, state budget revenue in detail, state budget expenditure in detail and national tax revenue. And whatever anyone asks for extra, he gets. So the message is clear, it's modern, and it contains all the necessary data. The Treasury certainly has no reason to hide anything, unlike a seven-page blast that no one has read properly and where information has been collected over the years that was not part of the treasury. That was the only reason.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u102	Additional question? Member Mikuláš Ferjenčík is interested. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u103	Thank you for the floor. Only what bothers me is that it's changed. One. One learns from this new report that the results of the February 2019 business have been the worst since 2015, but will not know that it has been the worst since 1994. This came out completely, this comparison to long-term results. Two. What I miss is that while in the information from 2019 there were comments on the collection of personal income taxes collected by withholding or paid by people who submit tax returns, this information is already missing, or limited. And the third thing, a substantial part of those pages is a spreadsheet that, yes, I agree, remained. [[Attention on time.]] Sorry, I'll finish the sentence. But you stopped showing the table, before it was displayed, so you didn't have to click twice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u104	Secretary Alena Schillerová will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u105	Thank you for the floor. So in the annex, the withholding tax. There's all the revenue in that table that's attached, and all you have to do is just move down there and click the attachment. I think it's perfectly clear that we've been putting it there since 2014, because basically since 1993 it's been traceable, of course, there's no problem with that. Eventually, you found out. But we're putting it there for a reason to make it clear, but anytime... you know, you got that information pretty easily. And the third thing you asked me, it just slipped my mind... [[Member Ferjenčík from the diaper suggests: Comment.]] There are comments. You have comments in the press release on revenue, expenditure, in my opinion very detailed. And then in those seven attachments, you have detail. But see if you can find a press release last November, December. You'll find out, and admit it, you've read the first two pages, just like everyone else. And the other seven sides of the attachments were ballast that just didn't have anything to do with it. It was created... I've been looking for the year this ballast came into existence, and no one has been able to tell me. Every minister just added a paragraph, and it just made a mess of it. I've turned it into a modern, well-arranged report. And if there's anything you'd find that you're missing whenever we give it to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u106	I now call on Mrs Tereza Hyťhová, who was drawn in seventh place. The Minister Adam Vojtěch will give an interview to the Minister of Health, who is not present. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u107	Dear absent minister, I would like to ask if the government ensures that protective equipment is available. I mean antibacterial gels, drapes, respirators and others. I know I've read that you're trying to secure this for the medical environment, but it's just not for ordinary citizens. So what I want to ask is, if these equipment goes back to the shops, can it be purchased? And if the state makes a contract, just so that everyone can buy it from time to time, because in Ústí nad Labem, for example, I went around all the drugstores and pharmacies, and they really didn't have any of these tools in either of them. So please, on the part of the state, if there is any attempt to improve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u108	The Minister is not present, so he will reply to you in writing within 30 days, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We will now proceed to another interpelation and give the floor to Monika Červíčková, who was drawn in the eighth place, to present oral interpellation to the absent minister Jana Maláčová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u109	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, my intervention concerns unemployed people over the age of 50. I have been dealing with this issue for more than ten years, so I really think I know it quite in detail. Unfortunately, I have to say, however, that the proportion of unemployed people at this age is definitely not shrinking, on the contrary, we are witnessing a virtually continuous increase in their percentage in the total number of unemployed, which is evident from the official statistics of the Labour Office. Ten years ago, this share of the unemployed in this category was around 26.8%, and according to the Labor Office's press release, this share last year was 31.7%. Unfortunately, these data do not show the real, real share of unemployed people at this age, because it is common practice that people who work in middle and higher management are not registered at the Labor Office, because unfortunately, in various tenders, this record is considered stigma. The total number of unemployed persons at this age is thus much higher in real life. [[16.40 hours]] The secondary fact, which confirms the growing problem of the unemployed +50, is the ever-increasing average of the unemployed. About ten years ago, the average was 40 years old and we are currently about 43 years old. Although the MPSV has been declaring the issue of 50 people's unemployment as one of its main priorities for many years, it is unfortunately clear from these official statistics that the situation is not improving, but on the contrary, it is deteriorating, despite the current declared labour shortage in the labour market. It is therefore clear that the active employment policy measures used by the Ministry are inoperable, and it is certainly appropriate to start dealing with real systemic measures. Trying to solve the problem in form - Oh, sorry. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] So, my questions. The Labor Office in its press release 21. 10. states that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u110	Well, that's what I... Ask one question. I'll be very tolerant. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u111	My question is for the Minister. What system measures are the MPSV planning on this matter? Thank you for your kindness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u112	Thank you and please keep time. So the Minister is not present and will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. I now call on Mr Ondřej Polanský, who is drawn in ninth place, to interview the Minister of Trade and Industry and Transport Karel Havlíček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u113	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, on the portal Zdopravy.cz This week an article came out, which brings information about the newly planned structure of acoustic messages for passengers on the Czech railways. I very much welcome the forthcoming simplification of reporting and the reduction of the number of information that is more comfortably available today by other forms that were not possible before, but I was unkindly surprised by the information on the cancellation of local jingles. At the same time, local jingles can be regarded as an element perceived positively not only by railway enthusiasts but also by passengers to the public. But I was even more surprised by the information that this should happen because of copyright. I therefore want to ask you whether this information is based on the truth, i.e. whether the Protective Union of the authorial or any other association has requested or asked the SŽDC to pay copyright fees for these melodies or in some other way complicates their preservation. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u114	And Minister Karel Havlíček has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u115	Thank you for asking. Disturbing local jingles. It may look like a backpacking theme, but it's not exactly a backpacking theme. Those jingles play a pretty important role. I don't want to lecture here, but even if you've been watching, the French jingle has become the basis for David Gilmour's Pink Floyd album at all. And they're suing today, which is quite interesting, and among other things, it's just popularized. The French jingle is really a classic, and it's to some extent a symbol that isn't just given because I want to say something, but to some extent it's also about a certain tradition and something that clearly says yes, it's just part of the French railways. But it's not the French railroad. It's under the Railway Administration. This means that we consider this step to be quite significant, and so the aim is a clear shortening of the jingle, because the whole simplification of the information format is quite important. Passengers from our point of view should be provided with information on time and really only those that are of the utmost importance to them. And I have no doubt that you, colleagues, who use trains, have also recorded a huge amount of information in all stations, and that there is de facto a constant flow of jingles and messages in which the essential information may sometimes disappear. So if we look at it a little bit from the point of view of time, the average time of the original jingle is five to eight seconds today, which in traffic peaks means a really significant time when it adds up. So that's a pretty strong argument for unification into, let's say, the jingles of one to two seconds, or more like a kind of gong. That's actually the point of the change today. So in this context, I can say that, in addition to shortening and simplifying the acoustic information, as I have already mentioned, it is a sort of restructuring of information service. And the effort of Railway Administration is to widen the visual aspect of providing information, for example, for passengers who are in the underpasses, and so on. As regards the role of the Protection Association of Authors in this matter, he was, if I am not mistaken, also appointed in that particular article. I have asked colleagues from the Railway Administration for information about this part of the question, and I can say here that the Copyright Union did not turn to the Railway Administration for this purpose. These are really likely conjectures, possibly speculations of the debaters on various internet forums. But I'm sure we'll be watching it, and I don't think it's a trivial matter, however simple it may seem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u116	I am now asking the honourable Member whether he is interested in an additional question. [[Yes.]] So, Mr. Ondřej Polanský. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u117	Thank you so much for your answer. I am pleased that this aspect has been explained, and it is therefore clear that the Railway Administration is doing this at its own discretion. In that case, I'd like to put in a very good word for preserving the jingle. After all, the petition that demands it is now available on the Internet. There are some reasons why it should be. The shortening of the jingle is achievable in other ways, you've already indicated it, and that's actually simplifying the structure of the provided information. We're actually living in a different time today than the report ever came up. Back then, the visual aids weren't available, there were no smartphones everywhere. It means that today you have this information at your disposal in a completely different way, and the acoustic message should become a complement to the reports of only the most important things. The passenger train number so many and so much is ten minutes late and arrives on the fourth track or leaves the fourth track. That's actually all the information a person needs to record immediately in that lobby, and he's already looking for everything else using the app. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u118	Minister, do you wish to respond? [[No.]] So let's move on to the next one. Mr Zdeněk Podal has the floor now, who is drawn in tenth place and will interpel the Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u119	Thank you for the floor. Dear ministers, colleagues, colleagues. Dear Minister, I am interrogating you to make sure that you are not intimidated and that you continue to modernize our army, so that it is modern and confident. The fact that a lot of dwarfs have swarmed and dug up your ankles only shows that you are doing your job very well in Czech relations. If war continues to be a continuation of politics by other means, as Clausewitz said, we cannot, as the only people in the world, throw away our weapons and hope that God will protect us. First, this gentleman never did it, and second, it's up to you again. Thank you for your work and courage.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u120	Now, Mr. Defense Minister Lubomír Metnar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u121	Mr President, honourable Members, it is not often for an opposition Member to interpel a member of the government. I thank you for the interpelation, and I would like to say that the Army of the Czech Republic has great soldiers, and my goal is for them to have modern technology. On my entry to the resort, the Prime Minister gave me a clear task - to improve the defence of the Czech Republic, by transforming the obsolete technique of often Soviet origin. I would like to say that last year we were actually able to purchase military material at the Ministry of Defence for CZK 43 billion. Among the most important projects are eight pieces of MADR radar for 3.5 billion crowns, which will replace the outdated, 15 years-old Soviet radiolocation systems. In this case, the Ministry of Defence signed a contract with the Israeli Government and here 30% of the Czech industry's involvement is guaranteed. We also signed a contract with the U.S. government to purchase 12 military helicopters, including Bell's equipment, ammunition, equipment required, maintenance, training, training. The value of this contract is 17.5 billion. Here too is the involvement of the domestic industry. These contracts are really essential for the modernization of the Army of the Czech Republic. The Ministry of Defence is currently working on individual steps to conclude contracts for 210 units of infantry combat vehicles, 52 pieces of NATO caliber guns, fire control systems, thousands of new Czech handguns, over 30,000 ballistic vests, anti-aircraft rocket systems and more. At this point, I would like to emphasise one thing: the modernization of the army, namely the acquisition of equipment and equipment, is and will continue to be my priority. Finally, let me also thank the Prime Minister for his support in fulfilling the commitments that the Ministry of Defence has. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u122	So, Mr. Ambassador, are you interested in a follow-up question? You're not interested in a follow-up question. Mr Jan Skopeček, who was drawn in 11th place, will now speak to the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Vice Prime Minister, the point of my interview is to ask why the Ministry of Industry and Trade has become part of the fight against cash if you want cash payments, and why the MIT is engaged in a completely private business of private companies, card companies and banks in order to reach a cash-free company. I consider this activity dangerous, and it is an activity outside the state. Why is it dangerous? Because the ability to hold cash and withdraw money from a bank account is the last insurance policy of citizens against non-traditional central bank monetary policies, especially negative interest rates. If we lose the chance to collect cash and hold it and pay it with it, I think we're living far more in a negative interest rate era than we are today. Why is it still dangerous? Because, of course, this increases the capacity of the state and state institutions to lure citizens into a very sensitive area of where they spend their money. Why does such activity not belong to the state? Because, in my opinion, it's a clean business of the private nature of card companies and banks. What's the country's business, excuse me, how many payment terminals are in the Czech Republic? If card companies feel that little small entrepreneurs are using payment terminals, let them change their fee policy and do not involve state institutions such as the Ministry of Industry and Trade into their business interests. So I want to ask you if you are aware of the risk of the salami method of canceling cash and the salami method of traveling to a cash-free company with the risks I was talking about, why the Ministry of Industry and Trade is lending it, and if, in your opinion, it is not time to take an example from Austria, where they guarantee the constitution the ability to hold cash and cash to pay. [[Time.]] In this context, I am prepared to work on this constitutional insurance policy and I want to ask you if you want to participate in this work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u124	Now, I beg the Members, I am of course a friend myself, but I beg you to keep time. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u125	Thank you so much for asking. I think it wasn't quite understood, because the Ministry of Industry and Trade, if you look, is the Ministry of Ad One for Entrepreneurs, but at the same time we have consumers under us. And we looked at it from every angle. The first thing to say is definitely an act of wanting to increase the number of terminals is not and must not and will not be directed towards eliminating cash. That has nothing to do with it. Every customer has the right to choose, and I even believe that if he wants to pay cash, let him pay in cash. It's purely for his consideration. But at the same time, we must also perceive that a number of customers are not satisfied with the fact that in places where they want to pay with a card, and we have to in some way simply know how to express it, they cannot pay. And when exactly, let's just stick to some general average. The average in the European Union is that there are 23 terminals in Europe per thousand inhabitants. In the Czech Republic we are below this average. And we didn't go any different than Poland did. A few years ago, they had 15 terminals per thousand inhabitants, and the Polish government began - not supporting them, because we do not support anyone, we gave them some money. We have only created an environment for those companies that offer those terminals, so the opposite is not that we support them, we have pushed them to offer them to entrepreneurs for one year free of charge, completely. While otherwise, they're offering them a maximum of one month. And let the businessman choose whether it's interesting to him or not. We wanted to do a service for small and medium-sized companies and businessmen, so that if they decided to switch completely voluntarily and want to use terminals, they would have those terminals at the maximum possible time free of charge and at minimum fees, because those entrepreneurs, those businessmen, say that one of the barriers is just a higher fee. So, as the Ministry of Industry and Trade, we've put together card companies, we've put together all the unions, that is, the union that defends big companies, the Confederation of Industry, small companies, the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, we've brought together, of course, those key financial institutions, and I think we've managed to win at least better conditions than they did in Poland. And because of that, today is the chance to distribute de facto 30,000 terminals among entrepreneurs. Let them decide whether they want it or not. Maybe it won't be thirty, maybe it'll be ten, maybe it'll be twenty, that's a whole different thing. But in any case, a businessman will save at this point if he volunteers to do so. If he doesn't, then of course he's in his own regime and he has his own reasons and let him decide for himself. And the consumer, he should only benefit from it, because if he has services of that nature, that he will be able to pay with a card in the wider network, he will only be satisfied. And we just want the consumer to have, say, service, just as the European Union is on average. So we don't push it, it's voluntary, let everyone decide. There are countries, like the Nordic countries, where the share is significantly larger than is needed in Central Europe. In Austria I know about this, the share is approximately at the level of the Czech Republic. In Poland, they are a little better off in the number of terminals. So it's purely on the market, let him decide. We don't support anyone in the sense that we give some kind of subsidy or that we specially support those firms in some way. On the contrary, we pushed them to give the least possible good conditions if they wanted to be on the market. And I think it did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u126	So, I ask Mr Skopeček if he is interested in an additional question. He's interested. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u127	Thank you very much for your answer. However, I don't believe in the whole volunteering and the good intentions. koneckonců all, the Ministry of Industry's press release after signing the memorandum states that the Ministry of Industry and Trade is also ready to discuss related legislation. For example, the law on limitation of cash payments sets a limit of EUR 10,5 thousand, whereas in EU countries it is mostly EUR 5,000. In other words, the MIT is still considering limiting cash and its relative disadvantage. So I want to ask you if you're actually working to lower the limit on cash payments, which is the way, which is an attack on cash. And when you said it was supposed to be the market. Well, the market would, of course, solve that. The market would solve the fact that if small businessmen, small businessmen don't use terminals, that's why, and when we ask them, they answer you that there are high fees for transactions that banks and card companies collect from them. So the Ministry of Industry's response to card companies when she came to you... [[Time.]] ... should be: dear friends, lower rates and those... [[Time.]] ... payment terminals will be more. But other than that, the Department of Commerce... [[Time.]] ...has absolutely nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u128	I am really asking you to keep time, because it is not because I want to limit you, but we each get last in line one day, and then unfortunately, it doesn't get to those Members who are last in line. That's why the time limit is. Then maybe the MPs are waiting here for nothing, and then they won't get to them. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u129	That's what we did. And that's because we told those card companies not only to lower the rates, but to give the terminals free. And the only thing that's done is good. I say repeatedly, we don't push for cash to be liquidated. On the contrary, it is a good tool for many companies. But we also want those companies that want terminals to have them on better terms, and we want to take the first step. And if those paying companies continue to follow this trend, and that makes things a little better, that means that we put them at least together, that we put pressure on it, then I think it's only a good thing, because it's gonna make a profit from the small businessman, so the consumer's gonna make a profit on it. Nothing more, nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u130	There. I'll read one apology. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík apologizes from 16.40 am to the end of today's sitting day of the Chamber of Deputies for personal reasons. And now I call on Mr Radek Holomčík to intersect the absent Minister of Agriculture, Miroslav Toman. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you the circumstances of the appeal of the director of the Plant Production Research Institute, Dr. Jiban Kumar, which took place a few weeks ago. I certainly do not wish to question the competence and authority of the Minister to call off the Director by his department of the established research institute and general organisation, but it was this appeal that caused a relatively turbulent response among the non-negligible part of the agricultural public. Another relatively turbulent response was the replacement of a person who has long-term experience from that academic-scientific environment, whether as a researcher or as an academic manager, came from a political environment. I have been given a number of questions as to why the Director has been removed and why he has been replaced as he has been replaced, so I would like to ask for this information in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u132	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Minister will reply in writing within 30 days. I now call for an interview by Mrs Věra Kovářová, who was drawn as 13, and will interpel the Minister of Industry and Trade and Transport Karel Havlíček. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u133	Dear Minister, in connection with the selection of myths, it would be useful to ask where officials at the Ministry made a mistake in estimates. The road network, where the toll is collected, extended to the I. class roads and the selection of the myth should have brought about 125 miles. A month. Really, however, in January 71.5 miles were selected. CZK, i.e. only 57 percent of the planned amount. I think that this result does not correspond to the burden that has been passed on by the myth to all cities and municipalities on roads II. and III. the classes where part of the trucks moved to avoid paying the toll. I wanted to ask if you are convinced that such a weak yield corresponds to the level of burden and danger that the inhabitants of these cities and municipalities are at II. and III. classes are exposed to what you're adding to the wrong estimate, because that's almost half of the amount that was to be collected, and if you already have any data for February and what the outlook is and if you think that the planned amount is going to be reached, I think it was 1.5 billion. Crowns. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u134	Yes, Minister Karel Havlíček has the floor now. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u135	Thank you for asking. I'll put the myth in context with the total myth. We expect a total of 12.5 billion this year. Crowns. We used to put in some kind of reserve. So it's not really a strategic 1.5 billion for us, to be honest. On those ones, it's important for us that there's a total of 12.5 billion. Let me just point out that in the last year without these ones, we chose 11 billion. and it's always been growing every year. So now the question is, how are we going to grow, I mean, the highway toll, if it's going to grow again, then even less, in quotes, we could pick out the ones. I wouldn't make an account without an innkeeper at all. The 71 miles. would correspond to approximately one billion crowns a year so far, which would be, true, a little less than 1.5 billion, but it was the very first month that it was tested, when a whole number of transporters, carriers didn't even know that it was, or that it would be. This means that somehow it will now be gradually compared in the coming months. I don't want to guess now if it's 90 miles. A month, which means it's going to be 1.2 billion, or 1.3 billion. crowns a year. And I don't think that's quite the point. I daresay the 12.5 billion. is available within the total number. I don't want to go back to why it was introduced at all, and I don't want to say anything alibistically: I've come to a done deal, and now I'm coming out of what it is. I just respect that I. class road, the 800, respectively. Almost 900 km is loaded today. I can also see that it has been lightened by certain roads, but, of course, some are using it a little bit or taking advantage of it, and so they seem to be putting more pressure on the twos and the threes. It's early to do the bill again today. Let's wait. And I also discussed this with the Police of the Czech Republic, with the traffic police, with the police president and, of course, with my colleagues at the Ministry of Transport, that we would go - among other things, with a new myth evaluation system - for the first three months. Even I think there is relatively little. It'll be better for the next three months. We've been through this before, if I remember correctly. I see it as a matter of concern. You yourself are in a group that has the ability to influence it to a certain extent. We need to look for tools. If some municipalities were actually burdened more, which may occur, I do not rule it out, so look for the solution. The solution to how to get rid of it is, from my point of view, the easiest thing: put a sign there. Of course, some might say: the police may have some problems with this. I was talking to the police president, the head of the traffic police. It shouldn't be a problem. The only thing they want is for us not to panic today is that someone is coming - there's more in this village, in this less - after one month, after two. Let's at least wait for the first three months. Then we'll evaluate it, and we can sit down together without a problem. And even better after the next three months. The second option, which is, let's say, the more strategic one, is called. dynamic overhanging of trucks, i.e. In electronic form, actually. Because a number of trucks that go where they're not supposed to go do so actually at the level of offenses, because they should have a lower load. And by weighing it hard, or by doing it on the scales where they're leaving, and that's obviously complicated, they're taking advantage of it. As long as we have a part of the sensors and the system that I have. Now we're preparing the dynamic overhanging and of course we're setting it up on the road, which is a question of about 100 meters of road 10 to 20 million crowns of investment, but I think it's worth the investment -- among other things, we already have two or three of the scales we're testing today -- so I think it's pretty important how to eliminate the amount of cars that really have nothing to do there, thanks to the weight. But I'm sure we'll be watching it, and I think it's quite a substantive discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u136	Mrs Věra Kovářová is interested in an additional question. So please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u137	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I just wanted to ask if you've got the February numbers yet. You don't, okay. And then when I have you here, I wanted to ask: In the questions of Václav Moravec, the topic of financing money for the regions on road II fell. and III. the classes you mentioned that it would be possible to get two billion more, that you would try. How's it looking? Because, as Mr. Governor Půta mentioned there, the problem is, on the one hand, it's good when the county gets the money, on the other hand, if they get it late, then it's hard to spend, of course. And sometimes work must be done in November and December, which, of course, is not good for the quality of communication. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u138	Thank you, and the Minister has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u139	Thank you. I can't even promise that from my position. It's true that in those last, I suspect, four or five years will be approximately 2.5 to 4 billion. The crowns were mine. from SFDI to Road II. and III. classes. It is not entirely a system solution, notaben just regions should manage their budgets. I do not want to mention so much discussed budgetary determination of taxes and what it has been up to, and how it has helped, for example. EET or control reports etc. At this point in any case, we are discussing this, discussing with the Minister for Regional Development, with the Minister for Finance, the extent to which structural resources could still be involved. It's going to be a discussion in the next few weeks, and we'll see what happens. In any case, it needs to be perceived, and I said so at the meeting with representatives of individual regions that the fact that today we are putting 106 billion in infrastructure. CZK via SFDI, so of course - I know it goes mainly to the ones and the motorway network in the road transport, but this is also for the regions. It means, it looks like the state's taking it. The state puts it on the roads of the first class and on the highways, which, of course, are in those regions. That means we always have to realize that if we put it on twos, threes, then we're going to have less on the ones or the highways. And I think the key message is that we've managed to increase SFDI to a record amount of 106.5 billion. Crowns. It's never been like that in history. The last time it was relatively higher was between 2008 and 2010, when highways were built twice today. So we actually have something that we're putting in there that's significantly more efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u140	I now call for the speech by Mrs Olga Richterová, who will interpel the Minister of Industry and Trade and Transport Karel Havlíček. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u141	Hello. It's a topic that your predecessor has already answered, with his searching for a solution, and since then nothing has happened again for many months. The point is that when Slovakia can give people who have a third degree of disability pension discounts when the European system of how people with disabilities, disabilities and the like is fragmented when Prague knows how to do so, the Prague Transport Company also has a discount for those who are fully disabled, why in your so-called flat-rate discounts you do not add this endangered group, a group that the government knows when it gives discounts on medicines, a group that still has an average of CZK 1,500 lower pension than old-age pensioners. In short, I am talking about people who are in no way able to increase their income in full-time, full-time, third, full degree of disability, and in our so-called area discounts on transport, these probably up to a few tens of thousands of people who are fully disabled, but do not have a disability card because they do not have such a problem either with the motion apparatus, they have a different character of difficulty or with the orientation, so I say to these people that the fact that it has increased the fare does not have a problem for them and that our state will analyse, solve and think forever. And it seems to me that the solution could actually be found, that perhaps you could prove it, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u142	I have one more correction for my apology. Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková cancels her apology today by the end of the day because she is present from 17.00 to the end of the day. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u143	Thank you for the question that I understand, and now I don't want to play smart here, that I understand everything, because I've been trying to get a little bit of a sense into it and find some sort of ratio and some logic in it. And as much as I hate to say it, I have to say it's not really trivial, and I'm gonna try to explain why. Because it's not that anyone wouldn't want to give the discount. Thus, an extension to 75 percent of the discount on public transport fare, or to citizens receiving a disability pension from the invalidity of a threesome, I cannot actually make a hundred percent promise, because it must be said that the proof of entitlement to a discount by a passenger must be simple, it must simply be quick and it must be clear. And the point is that every driver here, in practice, let's imagine it, a bus or a train conductor must be able to determine immediately in some safe way whether or not the passenger is entitled to the discount. At the same time, these discounts are used by children, students, seniors and so on on on the basis of some standard documents, ID cards or age documents, some student ID card, ISIC etc. Invalid seniors don't have that kind of ID. So first, someone has to create it, and then they have to give it to those concerned, and then they have to somehow prolongate it, based on the result of some kind of medical checkup, etc. So it must also be seen from the point of view of the Member State of the European Union. We have an obligation under the same conditions to transport all citizens of all Member States without exception, as well as all other economically associated countries, not only European Union countries. So who, and on the basis of what documents, is going to issue these cards to these people, it is not clear to us at this point whether other states have an analogue institute, such as our third degree disability, they do not, some of them do not. Then it will be necessary to officially verify any proof that he has it, the document, if any, or that he doesn't. So it's also a matter that had to be dealt with, and we're not 100% clear at this point. And to some extent, this dimension needs to be perceived. To the arguments that this group has had a discount in the past and that Slovakia still has it today, it must be added that, in the case of Slovakia, according to the information at least I have, it is not a flat-rate regulation of the price guaranteed by the State, it is important to say, but it is a discount provided by the Slovak national railway carrier, and thus only on some trains, and so it is necessary in some Czech cities, among other things, which you have mentioned, which yourself set some own tariff terms. So the state price regulation, as you may have suggested, is less benevolent in this regard, that is true, but the announcement of a state-ordered discount for Czech disabled pensioners would therefore be contrary to the law of the European Union at the moment. I don't want to say everything I can't right now. I don't want to be negative because I want to find the way. Think of it as saying it here after what I've studied, based on some arguments I'm working with today, but it's just a little balanced, but I'm just kind of happy to sit down with someone competent, and we can consider how that could be done, but we need to see it in some broader context, not just what we want, but also how it works.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u144	Madam, may I help you? Please. Mrs Olga Richterová has the floor to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u145	Thank you for your answer. I appreciate you trying to get acquainted with this issue, except your ministry has a lot of people, and I've always said it's just for railroads in Slovakia, but that's how we also have the Czech Railways. The previous discount was also railway in the Czech Republic until 2011. As far as the issue of IDs is concerned, there is another issue in the big city, in the million-dollar Prague, which is simply issued on the basis of confirmation or issued on the basis of confirmation from the Czech Social Security Administration, which of course the person needs to visit at times anyway. So the practical solutions I think they are, and I'm actually surprised that although it concerns thousands and thousands of people, and a lot of them are gonna fail the ID and they're not gonna get it on time because our medical review service is in trouble, so that it's ignored, there's really nothing moving.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u146	Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u147	I repeatedly say I understand you, but you didn't even suggest how to get there. Then let us admit the Czech Railways. Yes, it is a carrier, so it is not the only one, the Czech Railways are a state, and you know it is a state enterprise, but well, let us admit that through the supervisory board we would be able to, it is not a matter of the Ministry of Transport, but maybe it can be influenced, but the fact that individual cities are having it, yes, but then it should be flat. So how are we going to deal with the aliens? How are we going to deal with this here with the people of the European Union, if they're just going to translate it, if they have any special document for it that they'll ever have when they enter the Czech Republic... It's just not settled, but that's why it's not like that elsewhere in Europe. But again, maybe there's some genius idea of how to solve this, among other things, in other European cities. It is simply possible for discussion to be wider, perhaps even for the European Union maybe, the European Commission, that it is not just with us. But I'm saying again, I don't want to look like the guy who says it's all impossible, I can't do it, but so far from all the information we have available, I really can't at this point. And let us look for a way at European level to resolve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u148	I will now request a performance by Mrs Pavla Golasowská, who will intersect the absent Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, last October, you first acknowledged that this was true in response to my intervention on insufficient and still decreasing amounts of funds for periodic media for national minorities. For the sake of clarity, the total amount of funds fell by almost CZK 8 million compared to 2011. Secondly, you promised in your reply that - I quote: nevertheless, I would like to tell you that I am conducting talks with the Minister of Finance, which were now the last, as you know, quite successful in agreeing that we would be able to get some additional resources into this cultural activity programme, and I would at least consider releasing some 4 to 5 million to this programme of national minorities. End of quote. Which you have fulfilled for 2020, for which I thank you, but there are concerns from minorities that the situation will not be repeated for the next few years and the amount of media resources will again be insufficient. And I ask you, Minister, whether you have taken or are going to take budgetary measures to ensure that the amount of funding for the years ahead does not just fall, but to increase to the original amount, of which 2011, is about 30 million in total. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u150	Yes, Madame, let me remind you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Minister will reply in writing within 30 days. I therefore now call for the speech of Mr Petr Třešňák, who was drawn as the sixteenth and will interpel an absent minister of health Adam Vojtěch. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u151	Dear Minister, allow me to briefly ask you in your absence about the development of the situation in the Šluknov Ridge. Today, when the members of the YES movement set the standard for praise, I would also like to begin by expressing my appreciation for the fact that you are dealing with the situation, even beyond your competence. However, the current state of affairs is well known to all of us, and apparently the hospital in Děčín is overloaded and 55,000 people still have impaired access to medical care. My question is, then, what is the current state of the promised cross-border cooperation for the people of the Šluknov region, how many patients used it and what the future of this cooperation looks like and whether such a precedent can be used in other peripheral regions of the Republic and therefore, in addition to cooperation with the Federal Republic of Saxony, a similar form can be set, for example. in the Bavarian border. Furthermore, to the mentioned Děčín hospital, which is now the main area of business thanks to the closure of several departments in Rumburk, whether you have information about its current workload, how staff can handle it and whether there is no deterioration in the quality of care, and what other steps are you planning to take to ensure health care in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u152	Thus, honourable Member, the Minister will reply to you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Mr Lukáš Kolářík will now appear and interpel the Minister of Industry and Trade and Transport Karel Havlíček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u153	Thank you for the floor. Minister, I would like to open here a topic that has already been discussed here once, and this is the first-class road charging. This is mainly a section of roads I/20 and I/22, when the South Bohemia Region and the citizens living there pointed out that after charging only one road, there would be a transfer of truck transport to the other route. The South Bohemia Region has made some measurements which show that there has been a real increase in this operation, and this is also seen in the municipalities concerned, e.g. in Katowice, where there are queues, that trucks often, when they avoid in those narrow places, are on the squares. Councilman Švec of the South Bohemia Region sent you a letter, I don't know if you've had a chance to meet him, where he asks you to charge the other trip, respectively. Amendment of Decree 470 when it is to be added there. I think the solution should be quicker, so I wanted to ask you if you are planning and at what date to amend this decree. I would appeal to it as quickly as possible. And if you get a promise from the previous management that it was committed that if there was an increase in the truck traffic, you would also charge the other route. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u154	Minister of Industry and Trade and Transport Karel Havlíček has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u155	Thank you for asking. I've been partially answering that a while ago, but I'm still going to introduce some conventions. Overall, this is a charge of 860 kilometres of first-class roads, which applies from January this year. It was a relatively revolutionary measure within the myth, which in some way should bring ad one to the state budget of 1-1.5 billion crowns, but it was definitely not the aim, because it also has some costs. It's about lightening up certain roads. And we're also reflecting on the fact that someone can take advantage of it, and that they then ride the roads of the lower classes, the 2s, the 3s, to avoid the myth on the 1s again. We in this - and now I'm saying it in a good way, I'm not saying it provocatively - we mustn't let the individual regions, municipalities get pissed off, because I understand that after one month someone feels like it's more traffic, it's objective somewhere, it's not objective, it's going to measure it well somewhere, it's going to get a little crazy somewhere. That means we have to let it happen for a few months now in the sense that we have to measure it. We have a high-quality toll system today, which I think works here on the latest and most modern technologies, and ad one saves on it, if I'm not mistaken, 14 billion. CZK over the next few years, ad two is a system that meets the most demanding criteria, and thanks to it we can very well monitor everything, and that is what we must now put together in the coming months. I was talking about it with the police representatives, with the police president, the head of the traffic police, and we agreed that at least three months, let's stop and evaluate it, and then let's see what really happens in those regions. Of course, if it were to happen that someone was actually taking advantage of it, and it was to overload the roads of the lower classes, then we have to deal with it. Now, what are the solutions? The solution you have proposed is, in my opinion, the most recent solution. So we could actually charge another one right now, and if we just keep going and going like this, we're gonna have everything charged here in no time, which I don't think would be quite right. I don't think we should bother the drivers anymore or just those who are affected by the myth, and that it should stay on this cipher. We can only agree on a really small one - if we see somewhere that it really wasn't needed to be properly estimated, which will eventually show the traffic. But I think the way it's set today, it should be in principle in that global number. The simplest solution we're working on with the police is that there's just a sign that won't go there. That shouldn't be difficult. The fact that it doesn't happen everywhere today is not because the police don't want to do it, I really talked to them, I talked to them about it a lot, with all the people involved, and they're really just waiting to prove it on some model, I don't want to say the model, but on something that's a little bit understandable, and I repeat that, at least those three months. The second instrument, which, in our view, is a tool of the future, is clear and I believe we agree on it, is the dynamic scales, because a large part of those trucks that overload those roads are trucks that really have nothing to do with how much they weigh. And because today it's complicated to consider, and the classic mechanical system, when the truck actually goes off on a detachable lane and it prevails there, is extremely demanding, complicated, logistically complex, while those dynamic modern electronic scales, which essentially measure, whether or not someone has paid for, for example, the faults or the myth, are moving it at the same time, which is an ideal tool. The instrument must gradually be introduced on individual roads. Today, as I mentioned here, we have, I believe, two or three systems. It's not exactly a dramatic investment, 10 to 20 miles in order. Kroner, if we start planting dozens, if not more in time, I think it's a modern good quality system. So please just be patient, and I believe that in six months the system will sit down and then we can have a proper conversation about where it is really overloaded, where it isn't, and look for solutions. And I said which one it might be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u156	So I ask the honourable Member whether he is interested in an additional question. [[He does.]] So, Mr. Mr. Lukáš Kolářík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u157	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'm just worried that the solution that you've indicated to me here, based on some kind of ban tag, isn't going to be effective here, because it's two first-class roads, it's not that there's abuse and traffic on the second- and third-class road, it's really two parallel first-class roads, one of which is charged, and the other isn't, so it's not going to solve the whole thing. And I'd like to add that you said you were going to analyze it, only that according to my information, you didn't do it as a ministry - not you, but your predecessor - no measurements, so I don't know how you're going to compare it, because the South Bohemian Region has it, it's actually measured it before the introduction of the measure since the beginning of the year, and it's clear that the increase is there, and it can be assumed that it's still going to rise. However, I agree that about three months for an evaluation is not a very long time, I'm just saying that the problem is really there, those people in those regions are worried about it, and I'm sure it would need a quick solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u158	So, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u159	Yes. I didn't realize how you said it wasn't about the entrance to those cities, it was about the road. Maybe that's where it'll be for discussion. I'm from South Bohemia. This is, please, which road? [[Member Kolářík responds off the microphone.]] Yeah, yeah. However, the other part of the question, it's about the measurement. There it needs to be really independent measurement. We have no doubt that when someone measures the numbers of those cars, it is clear, but to measure it with some dynamics of what was in the first month, in the second, in the third, as it weighs on, etc., so that we can certainly come up with some consensus with your colleagues. But in any case, we're going to use the measurement system, the tollbooth is here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u160	So now I call on Mr Petr Beitl to submit an interview to the absent Minister Jana Maláčová, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u161	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during Monday's intervention at the Ministry of Police, Deputy Minister of Economics and Information Technology Jan Baláč and Head of ICT Security Karel Macek were detained. The safety authorities requested information and documentation from OKsystem for the contract. And OKSYSTEM is suing the Ministry because it succeeded in the first supply system competition, and then the resort withdrew from the contract. The second competition ended several times at the Antimonopoly Office and the Ministry's management has not wanted to state exactly how it will proceed in this contract since last summer. [[17.30 hours]] The Attorney General said that a couple is accused of being involved in the award of a public contract and the preparation of a crime of abuse of the authority of a public person. The case concerns a contract for the Ministry's information systems for a quarter of a billion crowns. Baláč became Deputy Minister last June, after this position was vacant for a year and a half. The preparation of new systems has also stopped. At the same time, Mr Baláč is a member of the Prague 2 council and was previously vice-chairman of the Prague ČSSD or the head of the party cell in Prague 2. Madam Secretary, I believe that the Minister is responsible for taking key personnel positions in his ministry, especially when they are occupied by prominent members of your party, i.e. the ČSSD. I would like to ask you how you feel about this responsibility and how you stand up to this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u162	Mr. Ambassador, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Minister will reply to you within 30 days. I would therefore also call on Mrs Pekarová Adamová to submit an interview to Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u163	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, on 12 February 2020, the Office for State Representations announced a tender for the lease of part of the former Karlín barracks building in the form of an auction with a starting price of CZK 75 000 per month. At present, the non-profit organization Prague Centre operates socio-cultural assistance in the premises. In 2017, she agreed to rent with the Ministry of Justice, under which the complex fell. Since then, the organization has invested millions of crowns in the state building. For example, she created a gallery, a café, a dance school, a cultural club with a bar, a cinema, or even a sauna. All this almost in the center of Prague. Karlínská barracks quickly gained popularity not only with the inhabitants of Karlín and the whole of Prague, but also among tourists. Since the Prague Centre ended the contract in March of this year, the organization began to discuss its extension with the Office for State Representation in property matters, which the building took over from the Ministry of Justice. After year-round intensive negotiations, the Prague Centre managed to extend the contract for another two years. However, on the same day that both parties put their hands together, the Authority has already issued a tender for a new tenant, which will last until 12 March. If the Office signs a contract with the winner, the current operator will have to clear the premises within three months and hand over the entire area in the state in which it took over. However, the problem is, above all, that the existing operator cannot sign up for the tender because the set rules do not allow it to do so. This also applies to other potential candidates with similar concepts. Just for the state in this case money comes first and then general benefits or socio-cultural benefits. Madam Secretary, is there really no more handshake today? Is the state really negotiating with its partners that it doesn't keep a word for a few hours?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u164	Now Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová has the floor. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u165	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam President, I'm sorry, I have some other information, so I'm going to introduce you to the information I've received from the Office of Property Representation, and I'm ready to take part in some sort of negotiation where we can get this straight. I would like to begin by saying that the long-term objective of the Office of State representation in property matters, which Kasárna Karlín has, as you rightly said, in its property, is to seek out all unnecessary state property of new owners who would find meaningful use for them and inhale new life for them, in accordance with all the legal provisions relating to the management of state property. That's the legal limit where they can move. In the case of Karlín barracks, the loan agreement was terminated originally in March of this year, so the ÚZSVM issued a transparent tender for the lease, which can be applied to by everyone including current users. Directly by law, state institutions are obliged to seek the highest possible return on state property. If we hadn't, you would've intersected me on suspicion of corruption or something. However, at the same time, the ÚZSVM kindly offered to those current users that they could stay on the premises for free until a new tenant or new owner was selected. That was the deal. That's how I got it into my file from the IRS. The main reason why the Karlín barracks cannot be borrowed free of charge is also the fact that commercial activities such as cafe, sauna and 700 crowns per hour or bar are operated in the barracks. In such a case, the ÚZSVM is legally obliged to issue a transparent tender for the lease. The loan is only possible if and only exceptionally - in Prague it concerns, for example, land in the premises of primary schools or kindergarten schools, where there is a loan. In other cases, it is necessary for the ÚZSVM to proceed transparently in the form of a selection procedure. Of course, current operators can join it - and I repeat this - as well. The aim of the ÚZSVM is to find a definitive owner who could reconstruct the decaying area and find a new use for it. Therefore, it currently offers it under the law to other state institutions. If none of them show interest, the law prefers a transparent tender or auction for sale. I would also like to inform you that the Karlín barracks was repeatedly offered to the City Council of Prague in exchange for land in Letňany, as Mr. Mayor Hřib originally thought. This happened for the first time over a year ago. From the media, however, ÚZSVM subsequently learned that Prague is no longer interested in the Karlín barracks. I'm saying it was in the media, so it wasn't confirmed. However, this offer by the State is still valid and the State is ready for further negotiations on possible property exchanges. I would also like to point out that the IRIS-H is taking all steps in accordance with the State Property Act to find a new owner for the premises and thus stop its long-term decay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u166	Madame, would you like to step out? [[Yes.]] So, Mrs Adamová Pekarová has room for a reaction. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u167	If it really is as you say, Madam Secretary, I am pleased that it is possible for an existing operator to come forward. But then I find it really weird to have this meeting there when they shake hands with the Bureau's representatives one day, and the same day, a tender is drawn up. Why is it not compatible there in the sense that they will be given information in time in the sense: now we want to write this auction here, sign up to it, so we will do our best to make it run in favour, as you yourself said, to meet all the requirements. But here, in this case, there is a rather strange procedure where, on the one hand, the contract is being extended, and on the same day, an auction is being announced. It just seems very illogical to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u168	Madam Secretary wishes to respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u169	Thank you. I, Madam President, cannot confirm or deny this. There's nothing I can do about this. It may also be a claim against the claim. But I'm ready, write to me, or those people turn to me, and I'm happy to answer these specific questions that I don't have in my background anymore. But in general, it's like I told you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u170	I now call for the speech of Mr Jiří Mihola, who will interpel the Minister of Education Robert Plaga on the law on teaching workers - qualifications. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u171	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, the amendment to the Education Labour Act states that an unqualified teacher must complete his qualifications within three years, at least the so-called pedagogical minimum. But I want to ask you how it is treated when it doesn't happen, if it just stays with the promise or if, for whatever reason, the person is going to take turns in schools, move from school to school, and actually this promise isn't going to be fulfilled here. Further, how will we motivate students to spend five years at the faculty preparing future teachers when it is actually possible to become a teacher much faster and to study for others, for the student perhaps more attractive faculty, and above all, when the qualified and unqualified teacher will be paid as a result of the school as well? How will it be explicitly treated if a qualified and unqualified teacher applies for the job at the same time? Who's gonna get the priority, anyway? [[17.40 hours]] And finally. Do we have any precise analyses available on how many new teachers have started in connection with the increase in teacher salaries compared to earlier years? Any more accurate comparisons? Do we have an accurate analysis of how many schools he wants to take to teachers, experts? And what's their focus? And all the way to the end. Wouldn't it be more realistic to add salary to teachers' solutions, make them more attractive in this way, and allow for a paid distance study? [[Time warning]] [[Time warning]] [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u172	There. Now, then, the Minister of Education will answer Robert Plaga. Please, Minister, you have the floor, five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u173	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Thank you, Members, for asking. So maybe briefly, briefly, but even more intensely. The Government's proposal for an amendment to the Education Worker Act, this House press that you are talking about, follows up on the Government's programming statement as regards the intention to strengthen the position of head of the school as a manager, particularly in the area of human governance and the pedagogical process. And that sentence contains the bridgehead of the answer to your questions. You asked me how we could stop this guy from going through the system if he didn't finish it. What I'm missing here is our long-term dispute - the key person in this whole trial is the school principal. You may assume that the directors of the Czech schools will prefer someone, or they will take someone there in a situation where I note that by an extraordinary investigation we have learned from our directors that there is a shortage of teachers, of course, as they assume, a lack of teachers, that is the answer to whether there are data, are data about the lack. At the same time, the fact that in some regions a considerable part is currently being provided with a relatively high part of the teaching provided by unqualified teachers. I mean, the guy who's there for the exception. Isn't it better that the school principal is the manager to get and have the opportunity to get the person he wants to teach into the system, give him the teacher's listing and in the adaptation period support to complete his pedagogical studies? If there was someone who would wander this way through the system, I can't imagine that at the moment it's going to be an eternal fluctuator, as you suggested here, the hypothesis that in the third, fourth school, someone would prefer it when they know it's the system of this person's work. In the case of a fully qualified, i.e. a graduate of a teaching faculty or a teacher-educating faculty, this person should always take precedence. And yet, if there is any added value, and I firmly believe that the added value is from our teaching faculties, the director will choose the person who comes from the faculty of education, and I will answer your question as well as how we will motivate students. I mean, the student should be motivated by the fact that he gets something extra from the others at the faculty. That means ask your dean, respectively. Dean of teaching faculties, because if the teaching faculty and study are interesting about it - and I think the Ministry has done the best in previous years by going to the teaching faculties through various projects where they were beneficiaries of teaching innovation, for greater interconnection - they still have the advantage of doing so, and everyone should want an attractive study at the teaching faculty and not want to go around it. That means this is odd. If the Faculty of Education is afraid that someone will orbit it, then the basic problem is not the state problem, but the problem of the Faculty of Education, because the attractiveness of the study probably - but I firmly hope it is not - is not too high. You asked if it was the way to improve teacher's salary. I'm sure it is. We're working on it, and it's finally reflected in the real money in recent years and the rate of growth in teachers' salaries. This tempo must not stop. That's where we agree. Although we do not fully agree on this particular subject. You asked for specific, precise numbers - I can give you in writing afterwards, I don't have them with me - how many people have been added in this system between the years, and let's try to scale it down to the level of detail, how much has come in the standard way, how many exceptions are needed in this system, if these numbers are to this extent of detail.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u174	Ambassador, are you interested in a follow-up question? Yes, please, your minute. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u175	Well, thank you for your answer. And I'm going to ask for these analyses really, because it's very important if at least the trend with better salaries is started. If more graduates are going to school to at least have that hope. And otherwise, with all due respect, Minister, you've worked a lot with words like we assume, hope, believe etc. I, too, would like to assume, believe, hope, have hope. But what is written is given. So some of these things I think must just be treated, black and white. And nothing against the key role of directors. But it's also not entirely saving. We can ask ourselves a question - and I believe that Education Ministers should also be excellent managers. How come it surprises us that suddenly thousands of teachers are missing? Someone figured that out like a week ago, a month ago, a year ago. That's not a problem that happens in 14 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u176	So, Minister, do you wish to respond? Yes. Minister of Education Robert Plaga has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u177	I'll react briefly. Of course, that's not a problem that happens to be here. I think I really don't feel guilty about having an extraordinary investigation done, where we didn't just want specific figures to the extent of detail from those school directors, because, of course, we don't have them on an online basis, but at the same time I asked them for a view of the capacity in relation to the age structure of their particular school for the future. That means it wasn't a surprise. But from the fact that we all kind of knew that, when we go to those schools - and you go to them, other MPs go to them, even the Education Minister gets to them, so you see it there. That's what the directors say. But if we wanted summar numbers, we got to them on the basis of an extraordinary investigation. That means it's no surprise, but it's a quantification of what's long-term in the system. And we're trying to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u178	I am now giving the floor to Mr Karel Rais, who will intersect the absent Minister Jana Maláčová. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u179	Good evening. Dear absent Madam Secretary, in the field of information technology, your Ministry of the mouth of your deputy or union directors is constantly declaring an effort regarding the mutual data interconnection of agendas that fall within the competence of your department. The new unified information system of the labour and social affairs resort will be billions more expensive than the plans. Instead of CZK 1.5 billion, it should cost nearly CZK 2.5 billion. One of the reasons stated by your Deputy Baláč is the problem of data migration mentioned by me. The Deputy Director recommended choosing a new model for data migration. My question is: How does the problem of data incoherence continue in the single information system of work and social affairs, especially the problem of data migration? When was the project launched? When does it end? What is the new approach of your workers to the problem of data migration? See the Deputy Minister's quote. The classic problem in IT interconnection and cooperation with each other relatively separate databases, in your case also the information system, can become a narrow throat in the processing of social benefits of assistance in material distress and other subsystems, especially if the processor changes after 31. 12. 2020. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u180	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, honourable Member, the Minister will reply in writing within 30 days. There. I am now calling for Mr Petr Beitl's speech, which was drawn as 22nd, and the interpelation will be on Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová on the issue of the International Investment Bank - the abolition of our membership. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u181	Good afternoon. Mr President, Madam Secretary. My question concerns the shift in the matter of the International Investment Bank and the International Bank for Economic Cooperation. The item concerning the ratification of the Agreement establishing the International Investment Bank in order to move the Bank's headquarters from Moscow to Budapest was withdrawn from the meeting of the House on 17 October 2019. The opinion of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Security on this point is negative, and, in simple terms, it recommends that the Government no longer raise the capital of the International Investment Bank and take steps to withdraw the Czech Republic from this institution. Membership at the International Investment Bank is not considered beneficial for our Republic or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Both the International Investment Bank and the International Bank for Economic Cooperation were created in the time of the Warsaw Treaty. Although the situation in Europe has changed very fundamentally since then, the Czech Republic is still a part of it, even though it can be said that both banks serve the pro-Russian interests today and support projects in particular in Russian interest areas. Support in the Czech Republic also concerns companies that have Russian owners. Moreover, the transfer of the bank's headquarters to Budapest, where it will be under diplomatic cover, is more than problematic in terms of money laundering and espionage. [[17.50 hours]] And I am now asking why we are still members of the International Investment Bank and what concrete steps you have already taken in line with government policy, the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the call of the Foreign Committee of the Senate to withdraw the Czech Republic from the International Bank for Economic Cooperation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u182	The floor is with Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u183	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Member, since 2014, the Ministry of Finance has been intensively addressing the issue of membership of all international financial institutions in the Gesture of the Ministry of Finance, including two institutions of the former Council of Mutual Economic Assistance. Based on the analysis, including consultations with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Industry and Trade, membership of the International Investment Bank has been evaluated, and I will also use MIB's abbreviation as beneficial and beneficial. MIB has undergone a successful transformation since 2012. Currently, modern procedures are set up in the bank, which is also confirmed by credit rating agencies, with international ratings with average A-. It respects all international sanctions, including EU sanctions against the Russian Federation. It should be stressed that Czech companies are actively using the bank's services. Since 2013, MIB has supported Czech companies for a total of 210 million. EUR. The Bank has never been aspired to become a globally important institution, but the limits of CEB and EGAP are subservient in supporting and diversifying Czech exports. We also consider the transfer of the seat to Budapest as positive, as the bank will be obliged to comply with EU sanctions regulations. It is certainly better when it is in EU territory. This is a regulation of the Council of the EU. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In this context, I would like to add that there is no confusion that the Czech Republic is also a member of other financial institutions of the former RVHP, besides MIB, the International Bank of Economic Cooperation. I'll continue to use the shortcut MBHS. Compared to MIB MBHS, the transformation has failed and has basically been in the stagnation phase for years. In this context, the Government of the Czech Republic discussed the activities of the Czech Republic in this organization in 2017 and adopted the corresponding resolution. Since this is a complex international legal issue and it is necessary to protect the interests of the Czech Republic as much as possible, we cannot at this time communicate more information, but I would like to assure you, Mr Member, that in the MBHS case the Ministry of Finance is taking the necessary steps in accordance with this resolution of the Government of 2017. Also for this reason, the issue of ending MIB membership is not up to date. First, we need to solve the issue of MBHS membership, but that's all I can tell you right now, because it's all undercover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u184	Ambassador, are you interested in a follow-up question? You don't. So I call on Mr Zdeněk Podal to intersect the absent Minister Toman. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u185	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Minister, I would like to interpel you at the request of the Czech Fishermen's Union in the matter of the Songs Refund, the cadastral territory of Stará Ždánice, Stéblová, area 8.8, ha. At present, the Czech Fisheries Association is facing intense pressure from the owner of adjacent plots of the Song Refunded by Mr Malý, who challenges the decisions issued by the Ministry of Agriculture in setting up a fishing area No. 451033 Elbe 30. The lines of the fishing area are from 1958 to 2013. Mr. Malý operates on a claim based on an unauthorized decision by the Ministry of Agriculture and most likely intends to set up his own fishing area. I therefore ask you to examine the situation and, if necessary, to maintain fishing grounds. 451033 Elbe 30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u186	So the Minister will answer you in writing within 30 days. The last interpelation can be given at 17.55, so it will still come out to Mr Ondřej Polanský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u187	Thank you for the floor. I'll try to cut it short. Dear Minister, from my start in the Chamber of Deputies, this is from the beginning of the parliamentary term, I have been following in detail the circumstances of the removal of billboards on Czech roads. With interest, but also a little shocked to see how the state power is almost toothless when it comes to such a common case as the removal of illegal construction. When it happens, the billboard appears in the same place again in days or weeks. I have intersected Minister Took many times on this subject, and then also Mr Kremlík. We even mapped 150 illegal billboards on D1 between Prague and Brno and handed the list over to the Minister as part of the interview. We calculated that their operators, that is on D1 between Prague and Brno, illegally earn about 40 miles. A year's worth of crowns. I therefore ask whether you are satisfied with the fact that in the Czech Republic there is an organization that operates for a living selling goods contrary to the law, and then the standard statistical things that we have been dealing with here since the beginning, i.e. how many billboards have been removed and when you expect the whole process to end. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u188	The Minister of Industry and Trade Karel Havlíček has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u189	Thank you for asking. As for the numbers, I say that 1 151 advertising devices have already been removed from and around the motorways, some other devices are covered and will only be removed. In particular, it was D1, D2, D5 and D11. Basically, yes, you have a point. On the other hand, we need to move in some legal environment, and if there is no clear reason and there is a threat of a major legal conflict, we can't remove it just because we don't like it. This means that we have to follow the road law in principle, and that in itself has certain necessary steps. We're pretty systematically removing it. I must say that 1 151 is not the least if we take what condition it was in, however it is owed to add that some advertising equipment does not meet the current conditions, that is, it is not a designation of an establishment within 200 metres of the advertising equipment, and are therefore illegal, so that it will be difficult to remove it in the future. For this reason, we need to thoroughly examine each of the advertising equipment that is there, we need to be sure that we can remove it, and then, of course, we are able to do so. In other words, according to the Road Act, the municipal authority is discussing offences related to illegal advertising equipment with extended scope and only the Ministry of Transport has already sent more than 200 incentives to individual municipal authorities with extended scope, and therefore a number of infringement proceedings have gradually begun. According to our information, only in two cases a fine was imposed, which, of course, is nothing famous, but I repeatedly say that the municipal authorities must therefore do so. Thank you for your attention, I think it just worked out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u190	Yes, but the Member still has room for an additional question, and maybe if it's short, you'll answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u191	So maybe I'll just use the limit that we have, and I'll ask how many of those 1,150 billboards, if you have that information, then after the removal, have reappeared on the spot, because that's one of the serious problems that appears here, that the ads are going to put it up again and normally on the Internet as a product, as a service, it's going on. I said, if only on D1 in one year, it's possible to make 40 miles on these illegal areas. CZK, so for the whole republic it could be - I don't know - half a billion or more. Isn't this state of affairs alarming, and isn't it time to go a little sharper? I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u192	Minister, you have less than a minute to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u193	I don't know how many of them went in there again. I think it was 150, but I'm not 100% sure about it. I don't have it listed here in the background, I think we talked about it. Nothing against going harder, we just have to be sure that it just meets the conditions for us to remove it. I agree that if it's where it's proven, clear, then it just has to be clear, let's say, consistent procedure. I wouldn't say quite sharp, but consistent, to remove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-006-258.u194	And I am of the opinion that, for today's day of discussion, we have closed the oral questioning because the last interpellation to a member of the government can be made no later than 17.55 hours. Have a nice evening, and I'll see you tomorrow at 9:00.
