ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, if there is one. And if he doesn't, I'm hoping he'll be here soon. Commencing session 44 of the Chamber of Deputies, and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will check you all out first and ask you to sign up with your identification cards. The replacement cards and their numbers apply, as was said at the 43rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, or we can add them if someone loses the card in the meantime. This meeting was convened by the President of the House following Section 99 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, according to which he declared a state of legislative emergency. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Thursday, April 2. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I'll call my colleagues in the O.R. I propose that we designate Members of Stanislav Berkovec and Members of Jan Čižinský. But at this point, we don't have enough participation to determine, so I'll wait a while to see if we have the number of Members - I've already gonged. [[From the diaper: Zagongat!]] - the number of Members will increase above the minimum necessary so that we can approve the meeting verifiers. And if that doesn't happen, I'll be forced to interrupt the meeting. However, Members are still coming, so I think there is hope that we will achieve that necessary base of 66 Members. Anyone else? [[There's a reading of 67 on the board.]] Let's hope so. So I repeat, I propose that we designate Members of Stanislav Berkovec and Members of Jan Čižinský verifier this, i.e. the 44th meeting. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 1, 80 Members and Members were finally signed up, for 78, against no one. So I note that we have appointed Members of the Chamber of Deputies for the 44th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Berkovec and Mr Čižinský. I confirm that the apologies for today's meeting are consistent with the apology given at the 43rd meeting. I don't have any refills here at the moment. I confirm that Members who are not present or excused in writing are deemed to be excused under the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs. Madam Members, on Thursday, 17 March of this year, the President's decision No. 41 on the basis of the Government's proposal, he declared a state of legislative emergency. [[That's 19 right.]] In connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency, the Government has requested that the following House prints, which it has approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, be discussed in a short hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the House. These include: - House press number 791 - Government bill amending Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended; - House press 798 - the Government's proposal for a law on certain adjustments in the area of state social aid benefits and the contribution to care in connection with the emergency situation of the epidemic in 2020; - House printing 803 - Government bill on special rules for education and decision-making in universities in 2020 and on the assessment of study time for the purposes of other laws; - House press 806, which is a government bill amending Act No. 39/2020 Coll., on real estate intermediation and amending related laws, which is the law on real estate intermediation; - House printing 807 - Government bill on certain measures to mitigate the effects of SARS CoV-2 on persons involved in judicial proceedings, victims of criminal offences and legal persons, and on the amendment of insolvency law and enforcement order; - House printing 808 - Government bill on compensation bonus in relation to crisis measures in relation to the occurrence of SARS CoV-2 coronavirus; - House press 809 - Government proposal for a law on certain adjustments to employment in connection with emergency measures for the epidemic in 2020 and amending Act No. 435/2004 Coll., Employment Act, as amended; - House printing 810 - Government bill on the powers of the Police of the Czech Republic and municipal police to prosecute violations of crisis measures and emergency measures ordered in connection with the demonstration of the occurrence of SARS CoV-2 coronavirus in the Czech Republic; - House press 811, which is a government bill amending Act No. 257/2016 Coll., on Consumer Credit, as amended; - House press 812, which is a government bill amending Act No. 23/2017 Coll., on Rules of Budget Responsibility, as amended by Act No. 277/2019 Coll.; - House printing 813 - Government bill on certain loan repayment measures in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic; - House press 814, which is a government bill amending Act No. 159/1999 Coll., on certain business conditions and on the pursuit of certain tourism activities, as amended; - House printing 815 - Government proposal for a law on certain measures to mitigate the effects of SARS-CoV-2 on tenants of housing facilities, on the beneficiary of the loan granted by the State Housing Development Fund and on the provision of performance related to the use of flats and non-residential premises in the house with apartments; - House printing 816 - Government proposal on certain measures to mitigate the impact of SARS CoV-2 on tenants of premises serving business; - House press 817, which is a government bill amending Act No. 58/1995 Coll., on insurance and financing of exports with state aid and on supplementing Act No. 116/1993 Coll. , on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended, as amended, and Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules and amending certain related laws, which are budgetary rules, as amended. Decision of the President of the Chamber of Deputies No. 44 of 31 March and No 44 45 of 2 April, the President decided to discuss the proposals submitted in a short hearing and ordered the House's press 791 to the Committee on Budgets; House press 798 of the Committee on Social Policy; House press 803 to the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports; House press 806 to the Economic Committee; Parliament's press 807 to the Constitutional and Legal Committee; Parliament's press 808 to the Committee on Budgets; Parliamentary Press 809 of the Committee on Social Policy; Parliament's Press 810 to the Security Committee; Parliament's Press 811, 812 and 813 to the Budget Committee; Parliament's press 814 and 815 of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and the House's press 816 and 817 of the Economic Committee for discussion set them an unbreakable deadline for submitting a resolution by 7 April 2020 at 9.00 in the morning. Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Article 99 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies are in a state of legislative emergency before discussing the proposal for a programme to assess whether the state of legislative emergency persists. I am opening up a debate on this. I've got some applications here, and with priority rights, he wants to do this...? Not to this, okay. I'm gonna ask you the same question - this is for the draft show? Mr Stanjura, that seems to be the first point. Yes. And Mr Ferjenčík is also on the agenda? No? To the show. But now we're discussing a state of legislative emergency, so I'm asking who's joining the debate on a state of legislative emergency at the moment. In general, if we agree that there is a legislative emergency. The President of the House has declared a state of legislative emergency until the emergency is over. We have approved the emergency situation that it lasts, but at this point we can decide that we no longer think that there is a legislative emergency. I believe it's unconfrontational, so we can proceed. [[17.20 hours]] If no one calls for a continuation of a legislative emergency into the debate, this concludes the debate and we will proceed to the vote. I'll call my colleagues back to the O.R. I see they're coming. For those who are coming, I repeat that we will vote on whether we agree that there is a legislative emergency. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency'. I believe everyone is present, and I am opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting number 2, 94 Members and Members are enrolled, for 92, against no one, and I note that the proposal has been approved, i.e. the state of legislative emergency is ongoing. And so we will now proceed to the draft agenda of the 44th meeting, as stated on the invitation. First of all, I'd like to introduce you to a proposal from the Gremium. And I don't have that here... [[A deal off the mic.]] Well, in that case, it's gonna be longer than I thought. So a proposal from Gremia: On Monday we received a letter in which Prime Minister Andrej Babiš informed that the government approved government bills... [[non-microphone agreement]] The government approved prints 819, 820 and 821. At the same time, the President of the Government was asked to decide that the proposed laws we received as such would be discussed at the time of the declared state of legislative emergency in the shortened negotiations, and the President of 6 April decided to do so and ordered these papers to the relevant committees, in the case of press 819 to the Committee on Health and set a deadline until 9.00 on 8 April. In the case of printing 820 of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and it set a deadline of 15.00 and 821 of the Chamber's press to the constitutionally-legal committee, and it also set a deadline of 9.00. It therefore proposes to include House prints 819, 820 and 821 in the draft agenda. We also propose to discuss the House's press in this order. It is in order as the first House press 808, as the second House press 791, as the third House press 811, as the fourth 812, then 813, which would be the first block in principle. Then, as the sixth House press, 798, as the seventh House press, 809, then as the eighth House press, 810, then ninth press, 816, then 817, then 806, then 814, then 815, then 806, then 807 and then those new prints, i.e. Like the 16th printing of 819, the 17th 821 and the 18th 820. Finally, the Grémium suggests that the Chamber of Deputies should act and vote on all proposals for today's day at all meetings after 7:00 p.m. and after 21:00 p.m. So that's all from the Gremium. I hope that was understandable. I still note that on the Gremium there was an agreement that always on a given block given by the minister, because the prints are sorted by ministries, we will always pass the second reading first and then follow the third reading in a given block, but it is not part of the proposal, it is purely an agreement. These would be proposals from the Gremium, and I am now opening up a debate on the agenda. It is here with priority rights first written by President Stanjura. That's up to the first point, I'm sorry. In that case, the first report was made by a Rakušan Member. Kalousek? I don't know. Gentlemen, make a deal. First priority rights, then written applications. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I thank my colleague Kalousek for not arguing about who will speak first. Ladies and gentlemen, I have informed representatives of individual political clubs, all in the House, whether coalition or opposition, that we will propose a point entitled Proposal for the establishment of a temporary commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the supervision of the use of data by mobile operators, payment cards and other sensitive data in connection with the introduction of the so-called 'Combassies'. Smart quarantine according to House press number 4723. [[document]] My proposal is for this point to be included as the first item in the 44th meeting. Allow me to comment briefly on this proposal. The government of the Czech Republic decided to use a modern instrument in connection with the pandemic of coronavirus to launch an ambitious project called "Coronavirus." Smart quarantine. The project is intended primarily for the rapid capture of potentially infected people, and it is certainly commendable that we are trying to use modern methods to cope with an epidemic of coronavirus. In practice, it is the use of data from mobile operators and payment cards to ensure that in a short period of time it can be traced to whom a citizen tested positively for COVID-19 met to ensure the isolation of all potentially dangerous. The main goal of a smart quarantine is to precisely trace all the infected contacts with electronic data within three days. These people should then be tested. To use mobile data from operators and payment card information, the infected must give explicit consent, but this consent will only be provided by telephone. Subsequently, with the help of the above mentioned data and information directly from the infected person, an approximately five-day memory map will be created. If consent is not granted, this map will be created without data from mobile operators and banks. However, it must be noted that conscious lying is legally possible in these cases. In connection with the procedure presented by the government, the petitioners see several moments that we consider risky and can lead to mistreatment of sensitive data. In addition to the Ministry of Health and the Czech Army, private companies will participate in the project, which will provide data transfer from mobile operators to call center. Supervision should certainly also take place on how exactly the software used works, whether it will only perform the functions that are expected of it, and what the security of the entire system looks like. The information that the State will obtain within the framework of the smart quarantine should only be available for the necessary period of time and should then be deleted immediately. During the process, consent to work with these data may also be withdrawn, at which point it is necessary that the data be deleted immediately. Last but not least, the legal aspects of the functioning of the whole system need to be monitored. This is not only about consenting to the use of data, but also about ensuring the confidentiality of those who will be familiar with the data. In this context, we propose the establishment of a temporary commission of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic according to the relevant paragraphs entitled "Temporary Commission for the Supervision of the Use of Data by Mobile Operators," "Paycards" and other sensitive data in connection with the introduction of the so-called. Smart quarantine. This commission would oversee the use of sensitive data by the state. The Commission's term of office shall be proposed by the petitioners by 31. 8. 2021. There is already a permanent commission in the Chamber of Deputies to control the use of wiretapping and recording of telecommunications traffic, the use of tracking people and things, the disruption of electronic communications. However, I draw attention to the legal aspect that it is established under Act No. 273/2008 Coll., on the Police of the Czech Republic, and according to it it also has clearly defined powers which would not clearly fall into the project of so-called clever quarantine. [[17.30 hours]] One of the main tasks of the Chamber of Deputies is to control the activities of the Government of the Czech Republic. And because the government has decided to use this ambitious project to track potentially infected people, which can, of course, affect the very sensitive personal data of the population of this country, the petitioners perceive the protection of this data as a crucial step towards ensuring the privacy of the citizens of the Czech Republic. The use of this data must, according to the petitioners, always be treated under clearly defined conditions, in particular for a clearly defined period of time and sufficient protection against misuse of such data. It should be the aim of the Chamber of Deputies to fully fulfil its tasks and effectively control government action. This can best be done by the Institute of the Temporary Commission. In this context, we welcome representatives of all parliamentary political parties. I would like to point out here that the so-called commission of the great ear for wiretapping is not represented or represented by members of all the political clubs of this House. And we would like not only the political representatives, but also the nominees, to sit on the committee. It will depend entirely on the consideration of which political club in the House, who is nominated for the commission. The Commission's basic objective is to monitor exactly how the processing will take place, what mobile data and payment card data will really be used, how these data will be handled, where exactly and how they will be stored, who exactly and under what conditions will have access to them and under what conditions and at what time their definitive shredder will take place. Furthermore, we would like to learn in what form the competent authority will obtain data from the mobile operator and from the bank. And, of course, there is also a need to address any risks that may occur when transferring these data to the repository itself. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me not to take this proposal as a political proposal, because I have addressed really all the clubs in advance, with the fact that we welcome the introduction of smart means and mechanisms for possibly leading the challenge that the pandemic currently means to us. However, even at this time, at a time of emergency, at a time when Parliament's activities are simply limited by the fact that we are in a state of legislative emergency, it may be more important than ever to give citizens of our country the certainty that, even at this moment, their privacy, the data they provide will be treated sensitively and cannot be abused. Please allow me to ask you to support this proposal and, if necessary, I look forward to working with your representatives on this temporary committee of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. So that was the first suggestion. Next up, I have the priority rights of President Kalousek, then President Michálek, President Jurečka next. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that the House press 812 be removed from the agenda of the meeting, amending the Rules of Budget Responsibility Act, Act No. 23/2017. I believe there is no reason to discuss it in a state of legislative emergency. After all, I believe there is no reason to discuss it at all this year. The law, as adopted by the House in 2017, envisages the dissolution of rules and fiscal liability insurance in the event of natural disasters, in the event of security threats and explicitly in the case of pandemics. That means the law is thinking about the situation we're in right now, there's no reason to change it in any way. It is not only my position, it is the position of the National Budget Council, which says it very strongly and loudly. All countries that have joined the fiscalcompact, which are now all European Union countries after brexit, have set up their national budget councils on the basis of the fiscalcompact and have passed the laws on budgetary responsibility. The Czech Republic is the only country that wants to change this law even in a state of legislative emergency due to the coronavirus vision, and the only country that is where the government has a fundamental contradiction with its national budgetary board. I, with all due respect for the government and its competence, am not convinced that the 26 countries are imprudent, while we are the smartest, and we are supposed to do so. Moreover, the further development is burdened with enormous uncertainty, we really do not know, and we cannot blame anyone in the Ministry of Finance for not really knowing how the deficit will develop, how the balance will develop, how GDP will fall this year and next year. The government is targeting a deficit of 4 per cent of gross domestic product this year in the draft law we have on the table, followed by consolidation after half a year until 2007 (?). Yeah, but what if it's not four this year, but eight? What are we going to do with this law? Please don't disrespect the importance of this law by wanting to change it in the first crisis situation. Because it's the law that thinks about the crisis, that's where they are. If that were not the case, I would have understood it, but there is simply a description of what can be done in the case of crisis situations, including pandemics. There's really no reason to discuss the law this year. And if the government insists, let's just go over it in a proper regime. Discussing it in a state of legislative emergency doesn't make any sense. It's rash, it's pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. I've recorded the motion. Mr Michálek also signed up, and then President Jurečka with priority rights, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor. I am responding to the proposal made by my colleague, President Rakušan, concerning the supervision of smart quarantine. I welcome this initiative. That this project, which is positive, should be under civil control represented by the Chamber of Deputies. I wanted to remind you that we were discussing the control mechanism today at the Grémium of the Chamber of Deputies, where I informed all my colleagues that a permanent commission for the use of telecommunication recordings and monitoring of people and things was discussing this issue and agreed to attend to it. That means, here within the Chamber of Deputies, we already have an authority to deal with this and in which STAN also has a representative. And the committee has decided that, of course, representatives of clubs who don't have a representative, a top and a KDU can participate. Unfortunately, that committee is not covered by the law we passed at the beginning of Mr Chvojka, that each of his representatives should be there, that is an exception. So that's why it's dealt with in the form of this extraordinary participation. So I think that basically one organ is enough to control it, and there's no need to set up another organ. That's why we're going to abstain.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-000-000.u7	Thank you and now President Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-000-000.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary, I would like to ask if we could propose to include a point on the House Meeting programme which concerns the current situation, because in recent weeks representatives - social service providers or their founders from cities and municipalities who have really had extraordinary spending in these weeks. They deal with purchases of protective equipment from their budgets, they do not know whether these purchases will subsequently be financed by the state. So I wanted to ask if there could be some brief information here on a point that I would call Government Information on the financing of social services and cooperation with domestic health aid manufacturers. Because it would be good to tell those social service providers clearly what they can expect, what situation they will be in in the second half. [[17.40 hours]] At the end of last year, when we approved the budget, there was information that the difference between the approved budget and the demands of the regions was about CZK 7 billion. Now these extraordinary expenses that the providers are carrying out are added to this. So if there could be any clear information about this, even how in the light of the adjusted state budget the financing of social services is envisaged. It can be very brief and short. And then I wanted to ask if there could also be information about what the strategy for accessing home manufacturers of protective medical aids is now, because here I have information that some of them are submitting their offers, are not reflected or are already being dealt with. Today, for example, or yesterday, up-to-date information, as Mr. Průša here, thanks to him and his team, prints protective equipment on 3D printers. They have about 150,000 crowns a day. There is some kind of media promise that this will come to fruition, but I would like it if, for example, the information was quite clear as the government will be building on this, how it will now try to support domestic producers not only for the security of protective equipment for the population and the people on the front line, but also for the creation of potential so that these domestic producers can increase and export production abroad, to countries that will also demand these protective equipment. So I'm trying to put these two topics in one single point, i.e. government information on these two points, so that some government representative can prepare for this. I would like to propose that this be the first point of tomorrow's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-000-000.u9	So if that's what I'm doing, I'm just gonna check to see if I'm picking up the message. One new point - Information from the Government on the financing of social services and cooperation with manufacturers of protective equipment as the first item in tomorrow's negotiations. [[Yes.]] Okay, thank you. That's all the priority rights I've noticed. So if there are no other preferential rights, then I have written applications in the order - Mr Václav Klaus came forward first. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-000-000.u10	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I have a motion for a meeting. Economic matters will certainly be dealt with in length on those points that are approved. It is, in my opinion, the most important thing, the threat of the economic coronavirus and the dying of Czech companies and businessmen, it is priority number one. If I had the power, I'd take out all the other points that don't concern the economy from this meeting. We have given you all translation of the English measures of the government of Boris Johnson for government MPs, perhaps like a mirror, or simply information about how other countries are dealing with it, because I think it is not important to invent a bike of every self-help now, but also to inspire in a foreign country where some surface measures might work. As far as health matters are concerned, we did that a while ago. We've extended the emergency by three weeks and something. But I would also like to bring something positive and take advantage of the difficult situation to restore society. I'm based on our long-term program. When you look at this situation that is, one thing hits the eye, and that's that globalists and global authorities don't work. Have you heard anything about the UN lately? Following the WHO World Health Organization, which did nothing for two months, then issued a confused statement, then issued a statement that they should not wear drapes, and now that they should be worn? Or even the EU and its activities? No. I think it is time to rid the European bureaucrats of government of this country. You have certainly noticed an incredibly rude decision by the European Court on quotas. Let us rid ourselves of the dominion of this court over this republic! We accept, in Parliament, in a normal situation, the vast majority of the European directives on arms, the GDPR, the other nonsense. Let's get rid of it! I would like to ask for the inclusion of a point entitled "Universal termination of the Treaty of Lisbon by the Czech Republic." If you don't approve of my proposal, I will present it at every meeting that follows. And since I am not illusioning the political distribution of the present House, although I think that people see it completely the other way around, I am only allowing myself to propose a resolution: First, the Chamber of Deputies instructs the government to launch legislative steps to the unilateral termination of the Treaty of Lisbon by the Czech Republic. And item number two, the Chamber of Deputies obliges the government to immediately withdraw all European directives and regulations from Parliament's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. Let me point out that you don't have the power to eliminate all economic points, but you have the power to suggest it. However, I register the proposal for a new point - the unilateral termination of the Treaty of Lisbon by the Czech Republic. And now here I have Mr Ferjenčík's written application for the show. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I join the proposal to eliminate paragraph 812, which means the House Press, which is devoted to budgetary responsibility, in the version proposed by the Government, rather than budgetary irresponsibility. And in the event that this proposal is not accepted, I propose that it be included as the last item of this meeting. The reasoning is simple. There is absolutely no need to discuss this point in relation to the acute problems of this economic crisis. At the same time, there is a rather passionate debate to be expected, which can extend. And I think it is extremely unfortunate that, because of the press, which is devoted to 2021 to 2027, we are stuck here when the help of businessmen, the situation of people in rents, the solution to the problem of loans and other acute problems that are really a matter of days, weeks and months, and instead dealt with a law that really has no reason to discuss either in an emergency or in a state of legislative emergency or without delay. We don't even think there's a need to discuss him at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-000-000.u13	Well, thank you. So that's this proposal. And if no one else is reporting for the show, I will call my colleagues to the hall and we will vote on the individual proposals, gradually in the order that they were loaded. I've already called my colleagues. For those who are coming, I repeat that we will now vote on proposals to change the agenda. The first thing I'm gonna do is make a proposal from the Gremium that I read. It is therefore a ranking of points, a inclusion of three new points at the end of the meeting, and a decision that we will act after 19 and 21 hours if no one opposes that we can do this by one vote. I'd leave it with one vote. It doesn't look like there's a protest. And I think there's enough of us here... Mrs. Černochová? [[Call off the microphone.]] I'll just wait a little bit longer for them to check... Are we going to vote all things out of the Gremium at the same time, or should I separate something? There seems to be no concrete proposal or protest, so we will vote all of the Gremia in one vote. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the propositions. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 3, there are just 100 Members and Members, for 96, against no one. I therefore note that we have approved these proposals. Next, the proposal was made to include a new point, that is to say, the discussion of House document 4723, which is the establishment of a new temporary committee for the monitoring of the use of data in connection with the introduction of a clever quarantine. I hope I read it correctly enough. I think it's clear what we're going to vote on. So first of all, about putting this item in the meeting. [[17.50 hours]] I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. The number 4 vote still includes 100 Members and Members, for 33, versus 41. The motion was not accepted. So we won't be voting on solid inclusion anymore. Then there is President Kalousek's motion to remove item 812 from the meeting. I think it's understandable. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 99 Members and Members in voting number 5, for 46, against 43. The motion was not accepted. Then a proposal was made by President Jurečka to include a new point, which is the Government's Information on the financing of social services and cooperation with manufacturers of protective equipment. It's understandable. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting number 6, there are just 100 Members and Members, for 45, against 3. The motion was not accepted. Once again, we will not vote on solid inclusion. Then there is the proposal by Mr Klaus to include a new point - the unilateral termination of the Treaty of Lisbon by the Czech Republic. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 99 Members and Members in voting number 7 for 15, against 64. This proposal was rejected. And lastly, Mr Ferjenčík's proposal here is to include paragraph 812 as the last item of this meeting. Understandable. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. There are 100 Members and Members in voting number 8, for 45, against 36. The motion was not accepted. I believe that we've dealt with all the suggestions. And I'll try to go back to where I left off. Yes. And now we have to deal with the approval of the entire agenda, as it has been changed in the context of the demographic proposal. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of approving the agenda. Who's against it? There are 100 Members and Members in vote number nine, for 97, against no one. I note that the draft agenda has been approved. And we have already voted on this after 19 and 21 hours. So now we will continue to discuss the agenda of this meeting as it has been approved. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Pikal is speaking to an employee of the organizational department.]] Before discussing the government bill on compensation bonus in relation to crisis measures related to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, which is the House's 808, where we are in a shortened negotiation, we would be in accordance with § 99 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. I am therefore opening up a debate on whether the conditions for the accelerated negotiations are in favour of this proposal, and I ask whether anyone is reporting to the debate on whether the conditions for the accelerated negotiations of this proposal remain. If this is not the case, I am ending the debate. I will make a motion for a resolution: The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for discussing the Government Bill on Compensation Bonus in connection with the crisis measures related to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, the House Press 808 in the shortened negotiations - i.e. that there are conditions. I don't know if I'm gonna call my colleagues back to the O.R. if some of us have left, just for information. And I'm opening the vote. I ask who is in favour of the fact that the conditions for discussing this proposal last in a short hearing. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 10, 99 Members and Members are registered, for 91, against 2. I am of the opinion that the proposal has therefore been approved. And I'm opening this point now.
