ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u1	22. Government bill amending Act No. 262/2006 Sb., Labor Code, as amended, and some other related laws /house print 689/ - first reading I will ask that, under the authority of the Government, the proposal put forward by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová and that the rapporteur for first reading take his place at the rapporteur's table, Mr Roman Sklenák. Before I ask the Minister for an opening word, I will once again ask the House for peace! [[He's waiting.]] I hope it is quiet enough to hear the opening words of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs of the Czech Government Jana Maláčová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am presenting a government bill amending Act No. 262/2006 Coll., Labour Code, as amended, and some other related laws. All social partners, together with representatives of the government coalition, agreed on 14 October 2019 with the content of the bill. a written gentleman's agreement on support for this proposal. The proposal responds to the needs of practice and aims to reduce administrative complexity, further reflects the latest case law of the Supreme Court of the Czech Republic as well as the Court of Justice of the European Union. The following seven things are proposed in particular: Firstly, the anchoring of a new shared job institute enabling the flexible involvement of shorter-time employees for the purpose of, in particular, aligning work and family. The Czech Republic is in support of flexible or part-time jobs at the EU level. Secondly, the conceptual change of leave brings a fairer procedure for determining the length of leave and drawing it up. Thirdly, a change in compensation and non-property injury. Fourthly, refinement of the delivery arrangements, which will in particular ease the administrative burden on employers. Fifthly, refinement of the transition of rights and obligations in employment relations. Sixth, deepening the prevention of accidents at work and occupational diseases. And lastly, seven, a reduction in the administrative burden of issuing employment certificates. [[10.30 hours]] At the same time, the proposal contains the transposition part with regard to the issue of the posting of employees under the 2018 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. 957 of 28 June 2018. The deadline for implementing the directive is 30 July this year. Therefore, divided efficiency of the amendment is proposed, bearing in mind that the transposition part for the posting of employees in the framework of the transnational provision of services must take effect on 30 July of this year, as of 1. 7th of this year, the measures not linked to public budgets and 1 are intended to take effect. 1. 2021 adaptation of the shared place of employment, as well as changes in the field of leave, compensation for damage and non-property damage, as well as prevention of accidents at work and occupational diseases. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to support this necessary law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u3	I thank the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová for the introductory words and ask for the opening words of the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Roman Sklenák. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, as the Minister has already said, the press has brought about a number of changes. It does not only change the Labour Code, but also the Social Security Insurance Act and the contribution to state employment policy, the Public Health Insurance Insurance Act, the Occupational Soldiers Act, the Employment Act and the Labour Inspection Act. The aim of the proposal is to implement the right of the European Union and to make further amendments to the non-compliant provisions of the Labour Code on the basis of the conformity of the social partners. The development of the case-law of the Czech courts and the Court of Justice of the European Union must also be taken into account. The amendment transposes Directive 2018/957 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. For the sake of completeness, I state that the deadline for transposition of this Directive is 30 July 2020. The amendments made to this Directive need to be reflected in the current regulation of the conditions for the posting of employees in the context of the transnational provision of services, as contained above all in Section 319 of the Labour Code. It is therefore necessary to introduce a user's obligation in good time to inform the employment agency, which has temporarily assigned employees to work with him, of the fact that he will send that employee to work in the framework of the transnational provision of services in the territory of another Member State of the European Union. The directive further extends the employer's obligations to pay for work, in respect of all the compulsory components of the salary and salary paid by the staff posted in the framework of the transnational provision of services in the territory of the Czech Republic, as well as the provision of travel expenses to the seconded staff on or in connection with journeys for the purpose of carrying out work within the meaning of Section 152 of the Labour Code outside its usual place of work in the territory of the Czech Republic and, finally, to employers, requires the provision of a standard of accommodation to posted workers, provided that the accommodation is provided by an employer outside their usual place of work. It is also necessary to introduce transitional arrangements for this sector in the context of extending the scope of the Directive to the road transport sector. Furthermore, the amendment brings a fundamental change in the adjustment of vacations. Leaving leave for days worked and the creation of the right to leave is based on weekly working time, from which the duration of the leave is derived. Furthermore, the draft law introduces the Institute of Shared Jobs as new forms of flexible labour regime. In the field of transition of labour relations rights and obligations, the current text is clarified. The next amendment concerns the provision of service, where it simplifies the service of documents by the employer. Furthermore, delivery fiction is introduced when delivering documents to an employer who is physically not in a place registered in a public register and thus makes it impossible to deliver. The proposal submitted includes a change in the adjustment of compensation for damage and non-property damage. In this context, it is proposed that a fixed mechanism be put in place for the valorisation of compensation linked to the increase in average wage in the national economy. Finally, let me say that the bill was discussed in the commentary procedure and submitted to the Government without contradictions. The Government Legislative Council discussed the draft law on 28 November 2019 and recommended it to the Government to approve it. This was the case at her meeting on 16 December 2019. The Chamber of Deputies then submitted the bill on 2 January this year and on the same day it was sent to the Members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the report and open a general debate for which I have four applications so far, and ask Mrs Pekarová Adamová if she wants to exercise her priority right. [[He does.]] In that case, I'll give her the floor as the first performer. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, it does not happen very often that, in the amendment to the Labour Code, which contains so many changes that have been mentioned here by both the petitioner and the rapporteur, we would find more agreement than vice versa. That, in itself, is, I think, quite a positive report for the petitioner as well. Of course, the labor code is very complex, very essential to employers and employees, and it would certainly deserve to be adapted to the fact that we are already living in the 21st century. It would deserve a large, complex amendment, and even if this amendment is not counted for such a fundamental and major change, so many of the changes it contains are certainly going in a good direction. Therefore, I regret that one of those parts, which is very highlighted as a great solution, is rather a way that is necessary, which would not have to be in the law at all. You probably know these are shared jobs. So while there is agreement on tripartite here on this amendment, which is quite a rare thing, I think that the solution to this issue in the form of the new paragraph is once again an unnecessary administration for employers. The experience of entrepreneurs, which I am talking about just flexible and part-time jobs, is talking about a completely different problem that this law does not solve. And that is that they are really flexible or part-time just more expensive for them. So the problem isn't that they weren't able to schedule part-time employees, which cover them for example one full-time, I think it's such a simple organizational thing that any of us at any time was employed or employed, so he knows that it's really easy to agree between employees and employers, but the problem is that these jobs are just more expensive for employers. I have long been trying to address the issue of part-time jobs and this flexibility of employment, which is very desirable, very common and much more used abroad than in our country, and it is still not possible to find agreement here in the Chamber of Deputies on the fact that this solution is here a long time ago, that we have already presented it here together with other colleagues for many months, perhaps today it can be counted on for years - that is, in the calculation of contributions for these posts. If we had this amendment that we have tabled here - and I have repeatedly tried to pre-negotiate it or put it on a program in some place where it could actually get to it, we would have solved the problem of part-time work, much more we would have helped employers and employees than by setting up shared jobs, i.e. this provision of the Labour Code, and it would have been over. [[10.40 hours]] Our proposal solves the cause. It solves the cause that the jobs are more expensive. And so this proposal only deals with the addition of the administration. And as the administration is actually declining in other parts of this amendment, it is increasing here. That is why I think that to pass this as a solution to the overall insufficient number of these posts, which are often longed for by parents of young children or women, by men of parents, by people who are needy in pre-retired age, or who still want to manage care for their loved ones, by aging parents or by other family members, is false. That is why I am repeatedly asking you to try this bill, even though it is opposition, and I know that it is not often the coalition Members' desire to face it, so that we face it and finally discuss it, at least further forward, so that we have a chance to do something about this unsatisfactory situation during this parliamentary term. Indeed, they can help those who want to work but cannot do full-time for whatever reason. I'm just curious about the shared jobs here, a few things for the secretary. I mean, the Social Policy Committee has been dealt with before, and there is one thing that I think is typically a socialist, inappropriate solution. I mean, there's a plan for employers to put in place some subsidies for shared jobs. This means encouraging employers to take two people in one job and a full-time job after part-time work, that they will be motivated in the form of subsidies. Towards what I myself said is the main cause, i.e. high charges, of unnecessary high charges here at the time, so we'll see that we're scratching each other's right hand behind the left ear. It is precisely nonsense to address in this case some subsidy demand, or let's say an offer that could be from employers and demand from employees. And instead of making the system cheaper, easier in general, we complicate it and over-complicate it so much that we put the money that we're going to wastelessly withdraw into some sort of unit, which is then redistributed by some bureaucrats who are definitely not going to work for free. So it's all going to cost even more. So this seems to me to be some crucial information that didn't come out here in the act. I do not know how the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is currently building on this and whether it will again really want to deal with it completely unsystemically. Another question mark that hangs over it is whether we looked at the experience from abroad before we set off and before the officials at the Ministry let go of the work on this amendment and the provisions on shared jobs. According to my information, I now collect from other countries, there are countries that have tried to go this way, such as France, and after a few years they have assessed that this was a bad direction, and they have therefore started to turn around and the entire provisions in the Labour Code have been disrupting. And France, which is about three times the number of sides, should not be an example to us. But in this case, if they themselves have just assessed the path as blind, I don't understand why we should go on it. Therefore, I wonder from the Minister, if he perceives me at all, whether they have evaluated this here and whether they have taken this experience into account, or others from other countries, and thus the previous year, of course, is true. Of course, I would like to discuss this very in detail on the Social Policy Committee, where this material belongs. But I think that this amendment should also be addressed by the Committee of Economics, because of course it will concern the business environment in the Czech Republic very significantly. And while there is a consensus on tripartite, I believe that this material should also be discussed there. Thank you, at least, for listening to me, for your attention, and I hope that the Minister will answer the questions in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u7	I thank Mrs Pekarová Adamová for her performance. We will continue with Mr Stanislav Grospič's speech. Mr. Vít Kaňkovský will be ready. I am sure the Member will then specify whether the Economic Committee will propose this as a guarantee or as another committee, which will certainly be negotiated with the rapporteur. Now, then, Mr Stanislav Grospič. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government, Madam Secretary, allow me to also express myself for the KSČM club and for myself on the amendment to the Labour Code. It is probably no secret that we have been long, and for a very long time, waiting for an updated amendment to the Chamber of Deputies from a government perspective. I also understand that it was very difficult to reach agreement within the tripartite framework on the form in which an amendment should come, which at least partially eliminates various approaches to the concept of labour law by employers, but also representatives of employees, namely trade unions. I am a little worried that the proposed amendment, although it appears that it is, in fact, only an amendment to the directive of the Council and of the European Parliament, so little in this sense is not sincere, because it does not primarily deal with this transposition, but it hides in itself a number of fundamental problems which it opens and which, from my point of view, I think, also employees and trade unions are not entirely decisive and problematic enough that they would require a fundamental change. I refer to the question of a fundamental change in the calculation of the calendar leave and, of course, also in the issue of shared employment. I would like to say that the current Labour Code knows how to work with, for example, mothers with children or persons who take care of another, third person and cannot do full-time work or need working time. And I do not think that the proposal for a shared job, especially in the form proposed in the proposed amendment, will bring relief to the administrative burden for employers, will ease workers, will lead to the stabilisation of the labour market, which is still experiencing a relative boom, is a higher demand for labour than in times of economic recession, and a bit of an illusion that this form, which we will introduce, or the government wants to introduce into labour law, will also prevent, in the event of larger recessions, the problem that the number of unemployed, i.e. people who are dependent on a certain form of support from the state, can increase. I think that a shared job is a concept that is not entirely owned by continental European law, and its implementation in this form is very problematic. I would like to say that, on the contrary, from the legal systems from which this matter is implemented into continental legal systems, they do not know the short-term forms of employment, or they are not normally used, or forms such as an agreement on work or an agreement on the implementation of work. So it is not quite clear that putting this moment into labour law will lead to a desired effect, and it may cause a number of disputes, a number of interpretation disputes, a number of labour disputes, and it may not be to ease the situation of employees, but even employers themselves, who may have a problem with how they actually ensure the agreed amount of work. [[10.50 hours]] As for the area of vacation, here I would like to remind you first of one crucial moment. In the amendment itself and in the explanatory memorandum there is a calculation of variants, which concerns § 211 to 214 and then § 213 et seq., the situation as to how this calculation will take place when the employer provides above-standard - because so far we have in the law set out four weeks the basic terms of the calendar leave. And this proposal does not push him any further, although he knows that there is a proposal for a five-week calendar basic notice of leave in the House, and he is counting on a more cumbersome system than in the current legislation, with the fact that it will be based on 52-week working time, but it will be very difficult to count on working hours, with the fact that he himself admits that, in a situation where the employer will accept five weeks of calendar leave, the employee will under certain circumstances be missing nine hours, which he will basically sacrifice to the employer, and will not be taken into account if it is four weeks of work leave, that is the regulation that is given by law and under which it should not actually be allowed to go, so in this variant it is assumed that even when the work calendar leave here is converted will not take into account the six working hours that will be on the whole multiples. And I could go on like this. I don't think it's good and it's not standard. We think that it is not at all good that the government will take the path of preference for short-term jobs, short-term forms of preference for shorter-term employment, that not only moms and children are concerned with the issue of stability and economic security, and that, on the contrary, there should be pressure on us to promote long-term jobs, full-time jobs. And if we are discussing - and France has also been mentioned here - the issues need to be reduced in working time, and it is a very hot topic in the Czech Republic, it is of course problematic in terms of the schedule of working time, in terms of whether the relative length of the working shift will be reduced or the weekly schedule will be shortened, the monthly schedule of working time. I understand that. On the other hand, I think that a solution is to regulate what is common practice for almost 80 per cent of employers, and that is the five-week basic average of the calendar leave. We think it's possible. After all, while maintaining that conversion per hour, it would be possible to take this step and take this route, because practice basically knows this way, and especially our legal order brings inequality in itself, because employees who are governed by the service law already have a number of specific professions already have a legal five-week or longer basic calendar holiday, so in this respect it would be fair to all employees to take this proposal into account. Perhaps this would solve the problem of shortening working time and projecting it into the Labour Code in the first step and would not have to choose such complex forms as the issue of shared employment. I therefore understand the agreement reached, but I must say that not all trade unions are satisfied with this result. I must say that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia believes that, in addition to the necessary transposition, which concerns - and is described in the draft code - some examples of transport, there was no need and there is no need to go unsystemically to change the calculation of the calendar leave, that this is a matter which will be at the expense of future stability of labour law. Let me just remind you that the law itself has been amended 52 times since its inception - and we, as a Communist party, consider it a success that Law 262/2006 was adopted at that time - and four other amendments are open and are in this House and are under discussion. This, too, needs to be taken into account. So I am expressing a very cautious approach to the proposed amendment, and I would like to say in advance that if this amendment did not acknowledge changes in the course of its discussion, then there would probably be very difficult support from the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. I would also like to propose an extension of the 20-day period. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u9	I thank Mr Stanislav Grospič for his speech. Before we continue, I state two apologies to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, from Mr Jan Čižinský from 10.30 to the end of the day and from Mr Jan Volný from 11am to 14pm of today's day. Now, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, Mr Jan Bauer will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u10	Good morning, Mr Vice-President, Dear Minister, Ministers, Dear Colleagues, Colleagues. Allow me to speak for myself and for the KDU-ČSL club on the submitted government amendment to the Labour Code. I'm gonna put some pressure on my previous speakers. I, too, appreciate the fact that the amendment to the Labour Code has arrived here, albeit partly due to the necessary transposition of European legislation, but we all know and have been expecting, according to the statements made by both the Minister and the entire Government at the beginning of the parliamentary term, that it is preparing for a comprehensive amendment to the Labour Code and has been updated several times. We were looking forward to the fact that the law of work, which has a number of difficulties in practice, will be amended to bring legislative practice closer to what modern employment requires. What has been presented here is certainly good material for discussion. The seven basic areas contained in this amendment are certainly areas that need to be discussed. I also join in seeing, for example, a shared job as an opportunity to improve the reconciliation of work and private life, but I would follow up on the words of my colleague, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, that I am not sure that, as the shared place is anchored, what we would expect from it will really bring. However, I do not want to develop this at this point, we will certainly be very honest about this in the Committee on Social Policy and perhaps also in some other committees. What I miss about this novel and what I am very sorry about is that if we're talking about aligning professional and private life, there's a lot more problems and just the Institute of Shared Jobs doesn't solve them. My colleague Markéta Pekarová Adamová mentioned here the fundamental fact that in order for employers to be more cooperative in allowing shorter jobs, to allow shared jobs, they would need one crucial step - so that it doesn't get expensive for them. This will certainly be a big discussion in the Committee on Social Policy. But there are a number of other areas that make life difficult for mothers or mothers who are already after parents but who need to take care of their children in part of the day. There's a lot more of these areas. If, for example, they apply for part-time work, they are not sure at this point that, at a time when employment is impaired, when unemployment rates increase, when they ask for a full-time job reduction again, the employer will oblige them. This is a rather crucial aspect when moms often decide whether to apply for part-time or not. This is a need for an institute which, in my opinion, should be addressed by this amendment. We presented it in a parliamentary amendment, but it is somewhere far, far away in the peloton of unnegotiated parliamentary amendments, and the question is when will it get to it. Our ambition is to open this issue and, if necessary, to insert it in this amendment. [[11.00 hours]] I could mention a number of other areas that the current practice of applying the Labour Code brings which are problematic. I will not mention them here, I think it is rather a forum for the Committee on Social Policy. But I have to mention one area. We, at the beginning of the parliamentary term, together with my colleague Patrik Nacher, presented a parliamentary amendment, I believe it was the House press 22, one of the first in this parliamentary term to try to help the so-called renters. They are people who have been affected by an accident at work or have an occupational disease that significantly reduces their ability to work. And these people are discriminated against over the long term and are essentially punished when the minimum wage increases occur, because any increase in minimum wage means that they will be reduced by the rent paid. The rent is actually compensation for the loss of their working capacity as a result of an accident at work or an occupational disease. We were trying to sort of fix it by fixing the minimum wage. Finally, we downloaded the proposal, and the government adopted the proposal in a slightly altered form, and we approved it here and together. Unfortunately, what we didn't expect and what no one wanted happened. The insurance companies interpreted the interpretation of this amendment in their own way and the situation at least part of the renters - and I stress the renters, not the renters, do not have such problems - have not changed. They still lose part of the paid rent when the minimum wage increases. And believe that this is very, very sad news for them and that it humiliates them greatly. So I assumed that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in this amendment would be able to meet these people who were no longer severely punished by their own fault, because the accident at work in the vast majority of cases is not caused by that person, just as occupational disease is not the fault of that person. During the last few years, we have had countless meetings with our colleague Josef Hájek, who is very active in this, and recently also with our colleague Černohorský, we have had countless meetings with the renters, representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, with representatives of insurance companies and we have tried to convince the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to solve the problem of the renters. Unfortunately, by this time, no solution is on the table. And I expected this amendment to address this big problem. You might say that it is not so interesting that it only applies - and I say it in quotation marks - to only a few thousand inhabitants of this country. But it is a few thousand inhabitants of this country who have been affected by fate, and we punish them by reducing their compensation for each increase in minimum wage. So I am very sorry, and I strongly hope that by the second reading, the Ministry will present a solution to this area. I would like to say that it is correct that, as we have had the opportunity to get to know the issue in depth, it is a big problem, because it also applies to the renters who had been granted a rent before the effectiveness of the current Labour Code. There are several groups of renters who have been running around over the years since 1989. So, of course, the problem is wide and it's not quite easy to solve. But who other than the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, or other ministries, should solve this problem. So I would very much like - and it is my appeal to the Minister - to return to this problem during the legislative process and actually prepare for a second reading of a solution that will help the renters. Finally, I would like to say that we will support the release of this press for further reading for the KDU-ČSL club, but we are expecting a very long and I think, at times, a heated discussion about the various measures that this amendment brings. And I firmly believe that we will extend this proposal to some other areas that are needed, as I mentioned in the questions of the renters, but also to other measures aimed at better conditions for reconciliation of professional and private life. And in this area, it is not just moms or moms who take care of underage children. As the demographic curve evolves, as employment in this country develops, when we do not have in a number of professions, who we would get to the specific job, so it will increasingly involve seniors, which we will also want to get to the short-term jobs. And we have to help them do it. And we have to help those employers to have the ambition to offer the short-term jobs. Colleagues, colleagues, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u11	Thank you. Mr Josef Hájek will speak with a factual remark. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u12	Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to thank my colleague Kaňkovský for mentioning the issue of the rentists here. For me, this is a very close topic, because it is, among other things, four thousand former miners who are unable to pursue their profession because of either accident or occupational disease, and it really is a big problem. We were -- I mean, the secretary was talking to us once, unfortunately, she's busy on time, so it was about 20 minutes, and unfortunately it went away, which, of course, I'm sorry. We promised the miners and the others that we would possibly process the parliamentary proposal. But it's such a big deal that it really needs to be dragged into this by the Ministry, because it has a staff of people who are able to do this. And it's not just a question of solving the renters. This has an impact on the pension system, because the miners are forced to be at the employment office after that, they haven't been running for years, they don't get a pension, they're under 65 years old. Then there won't be a chance to retire. This means, I call on the Minister, and I ask, that they actually start dealing with this problem and come here with a proposal that will be beneficial not only for the renters, but also for the Czech Republic, because these people want to work, but they are forced not to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u13	Thank you. Mr Kaňkovský, with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u14	I will respond briefly to my colleague Josef Hájek. If we're talking about renters' problems, there's a lot more of these problems. I'd mention two more. It is a question of so-called stop earnings, which is very demotivating both the miners and the other disabled, because they are also workers from the metallurgical industry, from the construction industry, but, of course, the occupational disease can also be the worker in other professions. And the other big problem is those periodic medical examinations where the renter has to check every year to see if he was sick in the meantime of any of the so-called general diseases that are toxic in that regulation. And if the renter gets sick with the so-called general disease - and that's all civilizational diseases - he's excluded from the system of compensation. Which is another demotivating element. So these are other areas that need to be addressed in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u15	Thank you. Mr Jan Bauer will now speak in the debate, and Mrs Aulická Jírovcová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a few comments for our parliamentary club on this amendment to the law. I would like to say that the ink hasn't even dried up since the last amendment to the law, or the Labour Code - I'll just remind you that it happened and that since 1. The 7th of last year was canceled by the time of the card, which apparently increased short-term unemployment in the Czech Republic, just the statistical data are relentless - so here we have another amendment to the Labour Code. We conclude that this is a compromise solution that follows up on the agreement of the tripartite from last year's spring, and the gentlemen's agreement that the social partners concluded six months later, i.e. last October. That's been said here, too. Let me just ask myself that the time lag was somewhat unnecessary and that this proposal could have been here much sooner if, in the meantime, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs had restrained its ambitions and not pushed for further changes beyond the framework of the agreements adopted. Here I may just say to the margo of what my colleague Vít Kaňkovský has said through Mr President that I think that this material will certainly merit discussion, I suppose, on the social and economic committee. But when I read the gentlemen's agreement where the partners made a commitment not to support any changes, I think the discussion would be very difficult. [[11.10 hours]] Whoever expected some revolutionary changes in labour law, as they were announced here during last year, will certainly not come and, of course, the question is whether it is necessary at all, because the Labour Code is one of the standards that I believe are going through changes too often, and I also believe that we need more stability and predictability in labour law than constant interventions and attempts to improve, which, in the end, in practice undisputedly, according to many experiences, are having an effect. I don't want to repeat the individual points of the proposal here. My previous speakers have already done that here. There's one thing I have to say. It is obvious that even on something the Czech right can agree with the left and with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, and these are already several times mentioned shared jobs that can be - a good thing - can increase labour market flexibility and make it easier, especially for parents of young children to return to work but also need not at all. That's my concern, too. But the success of the embedded design of shared jobs really depends on the details, which is why I would very much welcome the detailed discussion within the committees. And here I'm going to say a lot of skepticism. It is very easy to establish something in good intentions, but it is important whether employers will actually establish and use shared jobs in practice. And I am afraid that, in terms of motivation, Madam Secretary through the President, you do not have the fullest right - I am referring to shared assignments - thoughtful or premeditated. We will certainly have a debate on whether the proposed regulation is sufficient or whether there are still some things and practical aspects of the functioning of shared jobs that need to be fine-tuned. I already said that. I certainly do not speak for myself alone, but in principle I interpret the opinion of a number of employers I have met in recent months, not only in the South Bohemia region, and that is clear. It really depends on who actually writes those bills, whether someone from the table does it, whether officials do it, whether business representatives or entrepreneurs do it. And I sometimes feel that some things that relate to the business environment are written in the Ministry and from the table without people ever knowing how real business actually works. The Minister has been told in the past that employers might be motivated, for example. subsidies from the European Union to cover the costs of setting up such jobs. There is only one thing I can say here: we do not need the motivation for chasing subsidies, but in my opinion we do not need in our country. Our aim should be for employers to have a reason to create such jobs from their own decisions and not purposefully, because there are subsidies on the table right now. Ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Democratic Party MP will either release or support the release of this proposal for second reading. I think - it is a question of whether we are looking at this amendment more from the point of view of employers or from the point of view of employees, and therefore it is also to consider whether the Committee on Economic Affairs or the Committee on Social Policy should be a guarantee committee. I would almost rather think that this should be an economic committee, and therefore, Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, I would propose that the Committee of Economics should become a guarantee committee, or that this bill or amendment of the law be ordered to the Economic Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u17	Thank you and Mrs Aulická Jírovcová will now speak, Mr Juříček will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the government law that has been put forward. In fact, I have to agree that when the Labour Code opens up after each one, it really brings together various topics, and so have my colleagues, who actually have their own parliamentary proposals, but maybe it also carries such a fear of all the areas concerned in the form of social partners, which have already been mentioned here in the signing of this amendment. I would perhaps like to focus a little on the area of shared employment, because, as my colleague Stanislav Grospič has already said, there are many questions for the KSČM, and as we perceive practice, I must say that this part of the proposal does not bear any features in the form of knowledge of practice. We are concerned that more or less a shared job, if it is adopted in this way and as it is carried out in this proposal, it will not be used anyway, and more or less employers from logic will simply not approach it. We cannot imagine two employees agreeing on almost one job in any sphere, whether we talk about production or administrative or other. Yeah, maybe a few dozen jobs or jobs could do that, but I think it would actually be a very small percentage. We are convinced that today's practice also works, that short-term jobs are not carried out, and even employers do not want two employees to participate in one job or position, but always part-time carries one job, respectively. an agenda or part of some kind of production. And I really believe that this proposal is simply based on ignorance. Yes, it is a subject, it is possible to discuss how shorter periods are allowed in the present form or how this option can be extended further because we perceive it, and it has been said that even the flexibility of parental leave is often perceived, and parents often want to work on shorter periods, whether Mom or Dad, to allow flexibility and reconciliation of family life. Anyway, I believe that the shared job, as proposed in this amendment, is not exactly the right way to go. Perhaps I would also mention the proposal mentioned here by my colleague Kaňkovský by your means, which has more parts. Anyway, I'd probably get back to the subject where, in fact, the employer should allow the mommy mostly to return full-time after a short period of parental leave. Well, I believe that this proposal will come to the conclusion that employers are not going to be able to make the short-term jobs possible at all, because it is a really big problem for employers at the moment to sort of sort of deal with it by your proposal in practice. I believe, on the contrary, that it will allow those parents to work part-time, so it solves some situation in the company, wants to get along with the mom, and if she continues to count on her, then that's no problem. [[toss]] But ordering it, more or less favoring it, I don't think it's really the right way. We also do not like the effort - I think it was mentioned by my colleague Pekarová Adamová - to reduce contributions to health and social insurance. I think that Minister Maláčová could talk here about how she talks to the Committee on Fair Pensions about spending, but, of course, primarily the revenue side, about the future of pensions and the view as a whole. And the revenue side is probably one of the main factors that we should be interested in, and at the moment, but, of course, also for the future of the ongoing system, we cannot imagine that we would reduce the contributions both on social insurance and, of course, health insurance, and here the Minister of Health, who is in charge of this area, should also be strong. I believe that we should deal with this part of income somewhere else, but that is, of course, on the next agreement. We, as KSČM, would also be interested in our proposal, which we have here, five weeks of vacation, and which, of course, we perceive is very controversial for some colleagues in the Chamber of Deputies, but also outside, of course. I am convinced - and as has been said here, this proposal does not actually address the extension of the five days or the increase, but it solves the calculation - that the five weeks of vacation, our proposal, deserve to be discussed within this government amendment, even if I do not like the position at all - and now I do not know who declared it, someone from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - that it is necessary for employees to explain a new method of calculating leave on the basis of hours worked by employees in charge of personnel or accounting departments. I believe that in this way the Ministry should probably not go that way. I think that the path that is proposed should really be given to be understood, and, on the contrary, it did not create the chaos and dislike of the position of misunderstood employees for those employers. [[11.20 hours]] So I believe that even the proposal for a 20-day extension is correct, although we understand that there is some date of adoption of the transposition directive by 30. 7. Unfortunately, there are other proposals that are very much discussed, and for us and for us the area of shared employment, with which we can say, we really do not like this form proposed in this amendment, and we will want to discuss this very much also in the Committee on Social Policy. And I would like my colleague Jan Bauer here to suggest that the Committee on Economic Affairs be a guarantee committee, and I am a little concerned that that direction should remain on the Social Committee. After all, it is the social aspect and the social area. This concerns, above all, the social area. And I understand that there are, of course, financial implications, but I believe that the Social Policy Committee should remain a guarantee committee. Maybe I would like to point out that the amendment says that it will not affect expenditure or increase expenditure from the state budget, but they will rightly object to the calculation of our employers' leave, and I am not defending them, but of course it will also bring for them some additional costs in the form of thousands of crowns, for the new wage agenda programs, and the insurance companies will pay more for compensation, which we, in turn, acknowledge, because in that practice it is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u19	Thank you and two factual points will follow. First of all, Mr Černohorský, after him Mr Kaňkovský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u20	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to respond easily to the previous speaker. In our company, for example, they used to be used here - not shared, but that the assistants had part-time, even the testers had part-time and complement each other because they returned very often at the same time, or they had it at the time they had a parent. These are shared jobs as support for basically missing employees, because then you are able to possibly employ a college student and to do so you need to keep your previous employee, which may be one of the parents on parental leave, but appreciates that he can work, maintain his knowledge and know-how and at the same time he can take care of his family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u21	Thank you. Mr Kaňkovský, with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u22	Thank you. I would also like to respond to my esteemed colleague Aulicka Jírovcová. I'm not gonna argue with her right now about whether a step, if we give Mommy or Daddy more confidence on a short notice, that the moment they ask for a raise, once again, is a step in the right direction. We will certainly discuss this later on in the Committee on Social Policy. But I would allow her to disagree about sharing places. And now let's think of it more as a shared place in the sense that we have a job where we have more employees. I, as the former director of the hospital, fought this very hard, because health care is in this very specific area. But the current labour market crisis, especially with nurses, has led us to try. And I, for example, today as the head of the department, which is operational, am very happy that I have three instrumentals on one operating table, when I have one coming on Monday, the other coming Tuesday, Wednesday, and the third coming on Thursday, Friday. It's administratively demanding, it costs the hospital more money, but I'm glad we can operate on that one operating table. That means today we just have to choose. Either we make the conditions for both employees and employers so that we can have the shared places, and let's take it in a broader context, or we won't have the workers. And then we don't produce, then we don't heal, and it's a big problem. That means let's balance the rights of employees and employers. If we make an imbalance there, it'll never work, but let's try. If we freeze it, we're gonna have a big problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u23	Thank you. Mr Pavel Juříček will now speak in the general debate, and Mrs Pastuchová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u24	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, most of you speak on a somewhat theoretical level. However, I would like to introduce you a little bit into that plane practical. I am not surprised that the Confederation of Industry and other social partners here agreed with this because, of course, what my colleague Kaňkovský said through the President is that it already works in the health sector, but the Union of Industry, virtually. entrepreneurs, they probably also expect to be able to touch on some market potential, which is right here in the area of short-time jobs or shared jobs. However, in order to be motivated to use it at all, or to expand this instrument, which is common in Germany, France and so on, it is necessary to realise that the Czech Republic is the most industrialised country in Europe. It had about 35 percent of the gross domestic product. And that is one plane where it is, of course, much more difficult to do those shared jobs and, above all, that companies do in their own way social policy for the state, where they expanded their social facilities through preferential rents of flats, wellnesses, mountain stays, summer and additional holidays, sick days and so on, so it is necessary to realize - and now I can speak for my companies - that I do not take 34 percent of the crown of paid wages. I'm taking them to social, health. But one crown of wages costs me roughly by destination somewhere between 52 and 54 percent. In other words, the amount between 18 and 20 percent that we pay as an extra company is de facto fixed. In other words, I don't see the reason if those firms are working in this form today, why those firms will be motivated to do shared jobs. If you want these shared jobs to be on a wider scale, then actually provide it to the economic committee, so that they can talk about it at all, how industrialists, entrepreneurs will approach it and how we will be motivated and stimulated to do those shared jobs at all. That's it, Madam Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u25	Thank you. Mrs Aulická Jírovcová will respond with a factual remark. In the meantime, I would like to inform you that Mr Ondřej Polanský apologizes today from 9.30 to the end of the date of the hearing due to a working meeting. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would still respond to my colleague Kaňkovský by means of you. I was saying that, as this novel says, the form of a proposed shared job really carries a lot of questions. And I understand that the health sector is very specific. I think we're going to find other areas, and it's said that almost every area is specific when we have a lot of doctors here, so there's a pretty high health area, and of course there's a lot of problems. Anyway, it's more or less there when I was discussing how individual situations would be solved, that is, employees, two employees, three employees would agree on activities, distribution, etc. What if one doesn't come? How's the employer gonna handle this? The employer will play no part in this, because it will be at the debate itself and in the staff agreement itself. It offers really many aspects And it's necessary, probably not here, to discuss this primarily on the committee. [[11.30 hours]] And I just don't think it's quite as well written as it's designed. And we should discuss this, and maybe we need to make some minor adjustments during the legislative process in this very proposal, as it is written. But the way it's written, we really don't like it for us, because in practice, I don't think it really has to work, and logically, employers won't approach it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u27	Thank you. In the general debate, Mrs Jana Pastuchová will now speak, which is the last one to be logged in at the moment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when I saw that we got the press of the Labor Code, we all know who's here from last term, it's like when Pandořin's locker opens, and I believe that the debate will be extensive and long again. And just to begin with, I would also support the motion to extend the 20-day hearing. However, I would like to make one point. Although I know it's a government proposal, and the government has given a favourable opinion, there are a lot of things that have been settled in the interim review proceedings. However, following the inter-com procedure, the incorporation of the contribution to trade unions and employers' organisations to measures to prevent damage to the health of workers by accidents at work or occupational diseases was included in the amendment. This is § 320a. This is a proposal from the social partners, but it has not been discussed with the Ministry of Finance. Again, I say that the government has given a favourable opinion, but I would like to know, because there are incalculable effects related to this payment to trade unions - and I would just like to say that the issue of prevention is already regulated in legislation, for example, in Section 102 of the Labour Code and its implementation is fully under the responsibility of the employer. Therefore, I would like to ask what added value the social partners will bring to ensuring prevention. So I'm interested in the financial impact, because it's really not calculated here, and we know that these are a lot of funds that the state budget should touch. So I'd like to know the answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u29	Thank you and we will continue the debate. Mrs Olga Richterová is registered. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u30	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, honourable members of the government, colleagues, for the pirát, we want to very much support the extension of the deadline, because there is really something else to discuss in this proposal. As my colleague Lukáš Černohorskýý said, a lot of companies today, if they want, can de facto share jobs. We are really in favour of caring - not just the parents of small children, but often the caregivers, for example, of their old parents - having support. Only today it's de facto working. The proposal would only be incentive for the supply of a subsidy which, of course, is not contained in the law, but is considered, it is spoken of. And it doesn't make any sense to us. What good is the subsidy mechanism, which will cost administration and in the finals will only burden all parties, when de facto today it is possible to share it. What I'm asking is that we really talk about how to systemically motivate the employment of carers outside the subsidy mechanism. Otherwise, of course, we will support this, the layoffs for the next reading, and as far as the other aspects are concerned, we believe that the Ministry will be open to discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u31	Thank you. Two factual points will follow: Mr Grospič and President Pekarová Adamová. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would just like to respond here to what has been said here by Mrs Pastuchová before me, that the Labour Code already provides for the contribution of social partners or other organisations to oversee the performance of work safety. So I think it's a good thing there's a shift in this area and there's prevention, and it reflects the controversy of the draft Labor Code that we have here in the House. And then I would like to remind my previous speakers that, as a shared job is conceived, the content is crossed with what today's labour code already knows, that means a job agreement, a job agreement, short-term jobs, a division of the working shift. Yes, he doesn't appoint persons, he hides the spell in himself that, in a shared job, the employer will not be obliged to notify the employees in advance that he will somehow modify or argue with him about the distribution of his working hours. He leaves it up to him. But it can be a two-edged weapon, which will be very, very difficult to grasp and will be able to bring a number of complications. I would like to reiterate here that I do not consider it appropriate that it is being implemented into continental, into our legal system something that is from the Anglo-Saxon legal system, where, on the contrary, they do not know certain forms and institutes that our Labour Code knows. There's two things mixed here, and it's not good.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u33	Thank you. Madam President Pekarová Adamová, with a factual point. Please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u34	Thank you for the floor. I would like to support the proposal because I forgot to say it at the outset, to extend the time limit for committee discussions and to recall the two questions that I raised here. One was just about subsidies. As one of the previous speakers, Mrs Richterová, has already mentioned, it has been considered. And I would like to know, because so far, the Minister has not yet spoken about this in the context of this discussion and has not said in her opening speech whether she is really considering something like subsidising shared jobs. And my next question was because I know that the Secretary of State didn't see me very much here, she had a big interview with the rapporteur, so I remind her to have the opportunity to answer, and that's the foreign experience where it turns out that the trip wasn't quite right, and if the Ministry was familiar with and learned from this. Because it seems pointless to me to introduce something that turned out to be wrong and canceled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u35	Thank you and Minister Jana Maláčová will speak in the debate. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I thank you for the debate which shows that the main concern will be the shared job in particular. Thank you for all the comments and I am glad that it is confirmed to us that everything that has been done here in the debate has been taken into account in the preparation of the amendment. We are introducing a shared job because we think that not only the high employment that we are facing in the Czech Republic, and I think that this is a good thing, but also the general trend in aging society shows that the Czech Republic needs a system, a system to support partial and flexible contributions. We know very well, and thank you for the particular examples that it already works in practice in many companies or organizations. But the Czech Republic, and this should also be the subject of an amendment to the Labour Code, needs systematic adjustment. We don't really want to let every employer get away with this so-called thing, but we want to make it legislative. As far as the grant question is concerned, I have a specific idea how to finance it. We would like to finance this from the European Social Fund. However, it must be frankly said that this is not the final idea, because negotiations for the next programming period of the European Funds are still under way. We are communicating with the European Commission on this matter, and it is possible that the final version will differ considerably from the current one, because these are the experiences of previous negotiations with the European Commission, but we will nevertheless be very happy to illuminate our idea on the committee and explain it. [[11.40 hours]] As for the question of where it works well and where it didn't work, I think the best example is Germany, and in those negative experiences, you know that a similar modification is in Slovakia, we have just taken into account the experience. And I think that two factors will be key, key to the functioning of a shared job. The financial subsidy to the beginning, to the first, initial years, and then a clear signal, and this is how the shared job is regulated legislatively, that the shared job will work when both two persons or all three, in some cases, will be interested in making the arrangement work to go. And that's how the law is written. So thank you for the comments and I look forward to a possible discussion on the committees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u37	Thank you. Mr Navrkal will respond with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u38	Thank you for the floor. Hello, then, Minister, and I would like to ask you an additional question about the subsidies. I would like to ask if she was thinking about it rather than going the way of the subsidies, which, as she said herself, is actually quite uncertain on the way, so why didn't they consider a discount on some tax or income tax? Maybe the employees would get something out of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u39	Thank you. Does the secretary want to get off? Yes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u40	I'll admit I don't understand the tax discount so the employees can get something out of it. He's the main problem with a shared job or part-time jobs in general...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u41	Yes, ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so the Minister can finish his performance. Thank you. Madam Secretary, please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u42	...in general, employers do not set up part-time jobs because they have certain fixed costs. This is the main obstacle, you probably know, especially the contributions to social, health and then fixed costs with the operation of jobs such as electronics, jobs etc. This means that the advantage for employers is crucial. And the answer is clear why we do not go, for example, by discounting on social security and labour, because the left-wing solution is a subsidy and keeping the system whole, clear and simple, and the right-wing solutions are, of course, discounts on levies or taxes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u43	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? No one is applying to the debate. I'm done with the conversation. The rapporteur, Mr Roman Sklenák, is interested in the final words. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to say, in the light of the further procedure in this press, that a proposal has been made by Mr Grospič in the debate to extend the deadline for discussion by 20 days. This proposal was then further supported by several other speakers in the debate. A proposal was also made to order this press alongside the Social Committee and the Economic Committee. I agree with that as rapporteur, however, I would recommend that we, as a guarantee committee, leave the Committee on Social Policy, especially because, without a doubt, we will only be discussing the Labour Code once in this parliamentary term, so it is common, and I assume that there will be a number of amendments at second reading, and from this point of view I believe that the Social Committee is more appropriate as a guarantee committee than the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u45	Thank you, rapporteur. We will now actually consider the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. As has already been said, there is a proposal from the Organising Committee for the proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantees. And I'm asking if there's another proposal for a guarantee committee. Mr Bauer, as he announced in the debate, will speak with the proposal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u46	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a combat vote. I merely mentioned that the amendment to the Labour Code can be viewed both by the eyes of employers and entrepreneurs and by the eyes of employees. It's just legitimate. The only one who has the right to make a decision is the Chamber of Deputies, at least certainly in the Economic Committee it should be discussed. I suggest that, as a guarantee, the committee be economic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u47	Yes. Mr Bauer's counterproposal was made. We will first vote on this counterproposal. Then we will vote on the economic committee becoming the guarantee committee for the proposal. There's a checkout request. I checked you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We are now ready for the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 91. 152 Members registered, for 50, against 41. The motion was not accepted. We will now consider the proposal for the proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantees. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 92. Registered 153 MPs, 148, against no one. I note that the proposal has been tabled for discussion by the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Is there a motion for a commandment to the next committee? I ask Mr Bauer to repeat this proposal to the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u48	I propose ordering the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-24-ps2017-040-04-005-022.u49	Yes, thank you. We will vote on this proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 93. Announced 155 MPs, for 148, against no one. This proposal will also be addressed by the Economic Committee. Then, in the debate, there was repeatedly a proposal for an extension of the deadline for discussion of 20 days. We will also deal with this proposal by voting. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 94. Announced 155 MPs, for 151, against no one. We have extended the deadline for discussion, and I am ending the discussion of the first reading of this proposal. Mr Radovan Vích apologizes for today's meeting until the end of the day for health reasons. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we should look at paragraphs 24 and 25 in the form of a merged debate, which was interrupted on 18 December last year at the 39th meeting, but we cannot continue to discuss this because the Minister of Education, who is one of the applicants, is not present and because there is no one else's mandate, we cannot continue the merged debate. The same situation concerns, in addition to paragraphs 24 and 25 and point 26, where the appellant, the Minister of Education, is also excused, and this point cannot be discussed either. [[11.50 hours]] We will now proceed to discuss the point.
