ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u1	11. Government bill amending Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on food and tobacco products and on the amendment and addition of certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 502/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, Miroslav Toman will state the draft bill. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u2	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members. Allow me to introduce the Government's amendment to Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on Food and Tobacco Products. The proposed amendment adapts EU regulations to official controls introducing new rules on official controls, including food. In addition to the adaptation of that Regulation, the aim of the proposal is to prohibit the placing on the market of double-quality foods, namely foods which appear identically marked with food placed on the market in another EU Member State, although the food placed on the market in the Czech Republic has a different composition or characteristics; to clarify and supplement the conditions for labelling Czech food and to lay down conditions for voluntary labelling of the manufacturer; establishing the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture for accepting applications from food business operators and determining whether food is a novel food type; establishing a national agricultural and food inspection by the national data storage manager in connection with ensuring the mandatory traceability of tobacco products. Following the Government Resolution of 17 October 2018 No. 671 The determination of the State price printer, a state enterprise, is the only publisher of identifiers for tobacco products marketed in the Czech Republic. It is also a specification of the provisions relating to electronic cigarettes and replacement refills. Adjustment of some other provisions based on the experience of the application by law in practice. Part of the bill is an amendment to the Act on State Agricultural and Food Inspection, which responds to the need to adapt to EU regulations on official controls, control practice requirements and increasing interest in food purchase via the Internet. In this context, the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority is entrusted with the necessary authorisation to carry out checks on this segment. The draft law also includes an amendment to the Bank Act, which will enable the State Agricultural and Food Inspection to obtain from the Bank the necessary information to identify the controlled or obliged person in the event of failure to identify any of these persons and is thus prevented from carrying out official controls. The Government's draft law was discussed by the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic at its 31st meeting on 5 February 2020 and recommended by its resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the Government's draft law as amended by the amendments adopted. The amendments adopted, which were largely developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, are in line with the concept of the petitioner and will contribute to improving the government bill, and I therefore agree with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u3	There. I'll read two more apologies. Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologises between 14.30 and 19.00 for health reasons, and Mr Jan Bauer apologises for the afternoon meeting for working reasons. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the agricultural committee as a committee of guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Health Committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Presses 502/1 to 3. I ask that the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, Mr Pavel Kováčik, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and of any possible amendments. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam and gentlemen, both the Minister and you, Mr President, have mentioned the essentials. As far as the amendments are concerned, second reading is currently under way, it has just begun, in which a number of amendments, according to the applications, may fall into a detailed debate, which is why I will limit myself only to the statement that they have also been tabled in the Committee on Agriculture, and some have been adopted, amendments within a period of time. What's after the deadline is now possible to serve at second reading. At the third reading, I am then prepared to justify the various amendments in more detail after the agricultural committee has adopted a resolution on the proposal and recommendations for the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u5	I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mrs Věra Adámková, to inform us of the discussion of the committee proposal and to justify any amendments. [[He's not present.]] Well, the MP isn't here, but... [[Mr. Faltynek from the bench: Never mind.]] Excuse me? It's not. Never mind. I am opening a general debate. And in the general debate... We have the order here, so Mrs Olga Richterová will be the first to speak and Mrs Monika Jarošová will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear Members of the Government present, colleagues, I would like to make very briefly clear the amendment that we are proposing with a number of colleagues. It is a substantive change that affects the social sphere more, namely that the food proposal also affects the functioning of the food banks. In Amendment 4116, to which I will also sign up in a detailed debate, we adjust this in order to distribute food not only to registered clients of social services. So it is something that facilitates practical assistance and facilitates such distribution of food from food banks through parent centres or even small community associations of seniors, or even through church congregations that also help. Well, that's just an example of the use. The competences will continue to be determined by those legal persons who can distribute the aid in this way, those competences will continue to be at the Ministry of Agriculture. And it's basically legislation that would sort of straighten out a complicated practice today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u7	I will now ask Mrs Monika Jarošová to speak and Mr Jiří Běhounek will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u8	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The topic of dual food quality has long been at the heart of the attention of Czech citizens, quite rightly so. This amendment prohibits the placing on the Czech market of food labelled identically with a food sold in another EU country if it has different composition or characteristics. In short, if fish sticks sold in the Czech Republic have the same packaging as those in Germany, they must be the same in terms of quality. If the composition is different, it must be recognized from the packaging at first sight. [[14.40 hours]] The consumer is now in a situation where products are offered to him in the Czech Republic and in another EU Member State, whose name and packaging look the same or very similar, and that means that they can be easily confused. Thus, consumers mistakenly believe that they are buying the same food. That has to change. This cannot be justified by any reasons such as the fact that Čech have other tastes, other preferences that deceive consumers as a result, and the consumer has no opportunity to reveal these differences in normal purchasing. The Czech consumer is certainly nothing less than a German consumer, as it may seem from the offer, according to the offer of food of poorer quality on our market. We refuse. Not only could the problem of double quality be solved by selling more quality Czech food on the Czech counters, and we should go in this direction. Our SPD movement is a co-submitor of an important amendment and thus the introduction of an obligation to sell Czech food on our market. Their share is set at 55 per cent in 2021, with the percentage increasing by 5 per cent in each subsequent year up to 2027. Only by this will we support our products, our Czech market and food self-sufficiency. It should be noted that for every commodity that falls out of our market, it will immediately increase its price by import. Those who are fighting the carbon footprint today, then they're buying apples from Holland. And that's hypocrisy. Let them buy our apples. And it's not just apples. We need to support our market as much as possible, our food, that is, Czech meat, milk, eggs, just start working on being self-sufficient. And I think it's high time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u9	I will now ask for Mr Jiří Běhounek's speech. Excuse me, I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I have here one de facto - Mr Patrik Nacher. I'm sorry, just a second. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u10	Good afternoon. I would like to use this space to ask the Minister of Agriculture at second reading, because there are several amendments being read or read from the workshop of various clubs concerning the circle of responsible institutions for the dual quality of food. I take it no one here wants double food quality. There are two possible targets for me. Either the goal is to collect fines, or the goal is to avoid them. I think that the aim should be to avoid this, not primarily to collect fines. In other words, I would like to ask, because then I will decide whether or not I will join any of this amendment, or even in voting, for what reason are there at this moment as responsible institutions as well as sellers who cannot influence it and cannot check it. Now I'm talking about small and medium-sized salesmen, not talking about big chains that have some market power back-to-back influence even the manufacturer. That means, if we all agree here that we're trying to deal with the double quality of food in some way, that's one thing. And now - how to achieve this so that it is not at the expense of sellers who have absolutely no chance of influencing it. As I say, now I don't deal with large chains that often interact with those manufacturers themselves, or some products are made even with their name, they have such a strong market position that they can influence it backwards. But with the small ones and medium ones, it seems more like a way to easily get someone to pick a fine, and thus to do some duty, but it doesn't help the double quality of the food. So if I could ask if, at the second reading right now, the Minister or those who then propose the amendments, would they be able to answer in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u11	I will now ask for Mr Jiří Běhounek's speech and Mr Leo Luzar will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I propose an amendment to the Government's amendment to Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on Food and Tobacco Products with Related Laws. I would like to insert into this law the content of "nicotino bags without tobacco content" and I will give a very brief explanation. Then the amendment is uploaded to the system under number 4502, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. The purpose of this proposal is to establish a national registration of nicotine sachets without tobacco content which are currently not subject to any regulation by European Union legislation, neither by the European Union Directive on tobacco products, nor by the Directive on the use of medicinal products, nor by the Regulation of the European Union on the general principles and requirements of food law. The need for regulation of a given category is also discussed in other European Union countries due to the presence on the market. In Estonia, the product is classified as a product related to tobacco products and has to comply with Directive 214/40 of the European Union. In Sweden, the product is not regulated, but at the moment there is a very wide discussion on how to regulate this category. The product is subject to excise duty there. In Denmark, the debate is now coming to an end and the adoption of a legal measure is about to take place. I think that with this amendment, we can get a head start not to discuss individual issues afterwards. Why is it listed in this way? In that bag of nicotine, there's a concentration that's basically consistent with the standard cigarette dose obtained during one blowjob, so we should be dealing with this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u13	I will now ask for Mr Leo Luzar's speech and Mr Radek Holomčík will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, first of all, allow me to thank the Ministry of Agriculture for presenting this proposal, because the dual quality of food and food quality in general is one of the hottest topics that the Chamber of Deputies should pursue in the long term. I would also very much like to follow up on our successful cooperation within European structures, where our MEP Kateřina Konečná is very intensively engaged in this topic and is very active in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture at European level in promoting double food quality. My amendment, which I am proposing and to which I will sign up in a detailed debate, deals with one small thing, perhaps with techniques which will help to promote and extend this issue to general awareness, by allowing better publication of the results of primary controls in a certain form. In other words, a check will come to the establishment and find out that there are some shortcomings. It initiates administrative proceedings and this administrative procedure is comprehensive. He's got one protocol. And there may be data in that protocol that will prevent the publication of the results of the protocol concerning the dual quality of food. Therefore, I would very much like to see this administrative procedure concerning the quality of food, i.e. § 17, where it is mentioned, be conducted as a separate administrative procedure, so that it can be published as a separate procedure and not be influenced by the others, where personal data need to be entered, etc., and it would then prevent the retroactive publication of the result that the particular producer has infringed, and he would refer to the protection of personal data, because the protocol from the control body would be as a whole separate. In short, my amendment is aimed at this, so that the administrative procedure concerning the specific quality of food should be conducted as a separate one and that it can also be made more easily public. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u15	Now I'll read two apologies. Mr Dominik Feri apologises between 15.30 and 16.00 for working reasons, and Mrs Helena Válková apologises between 14.30 and 15.00 for working reasons. I will now ask Mr Radek Holomčík to speak and Mr Petr Bendl will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on a proposal that I will later sign up for in a detailed debate. The proposal relates essentially to responsibility for the problem of dual quality, with the fact that, as the Ministry of Agriculture puts it today, it is the primary and, in fact, the only one with the responsibility, the trader. I don't think it's good. This is not a good thing especially in relation to small businesses, because the problem of rural service is growing relatively. And in that ministerial proposal, I see a great risk for other, say, fags for small businessmen. [[14.50 hours]] We were also assured by the representatives of the food inspection during the committee meeting that basically the small traders were not the primary objective of being excluded. And I have no reason to question the comments of the representatives of the inspection, but the law simply says otherwise. The law says - everyone. You could say that we're essentially creating a situation of legal uncertainty here, where the little one has information that it doesn't concern him, but if something happens, he can be fined just as much as the big one. I don't think it's right, I think the primary responsibility should be elsewhere. That is why I have adopted a proposal which, of course, is not mine originally, it is Mr Kalous's proposal, but it seems right for him to pass through the committee to discuss it here in plenary and to pass through the final vote at third reading. Like I said, I'm going to sign up for him in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u17	I now have one factual point here, so I call on Mr Jiří Bláha, and if there is no further factual point, then Mr Petr Bendl is still prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a colleague through the President, because my field experience is actually as if threatening, which means that any control will come, so it simply does not look at the fact that there was an oral agreement that small and medium-sized people would not be taken into account and would not be controlled, what the colleague here was talking about, but clearly followed by the letter of the law. And if as a small salesman in the village, I'm responsible for Coca-Cola presenting the same product in Spain with a different composition and I have a different one, I'm just gonna answer for it and pay for it. This isn't about the fines right now, because at the end of the day, we would probably be able to prove that the person wouldn't have paid it, but this is about the whole range of procedural procedures that the little one doesn't have the power or the competence to do, or maybe the head to make a proper appeal, and so the small ones are going to be burdened. Therefore, I would ask if we could, if we want to defend ourselves, prepare a decree, or do what we really do to get back to the beginning of the second reading and work together to agree on how we will proceed to prevent abuse of what is written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u19	Mr Petr Bendl will now have the floor. I'm the only one in your... As you said, Mr. Bláha, it wasn't some suggestion that you wanted to go back somewhere, you were just putting it into discussion so I didn't have to make a note of it. Okay. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u20	Thank you for the floor. Maybe it's a shame the proposal didn't fall. We have spent quite a long time on the agricultural committee on this issue, and we have brokered a discussion between large retailers and multinational producers, so that we can better focus on the confusion of information and confront the face of what the situation on the market physically looks like. I am not hiding, and the Minister knows that I do not like the fact that the law is primarily responsible for the sale of the double quality of the seller, not the manufacturer, which I think lacks logic, and we clearly disagree, which I am sorry. At the same time, as my colleagues have also said here, the law does not distinguish small and large, and the law tells everyone how to fall. And while the chief of the state food inspection said they wouldn't control the small ones, the law doesn't say or define anything like that. Maybe today, if there's a boss in there, maybe it'll pay, or the minister that's there, it'll pay. But if someone else comes and behaves in accordance with the law, then they can simply start to control the village shops and basically start to liquidate them, because the fine for selling dual-quality food ranges from zero to 50 million crowns, and it is not specified either in the law or in the sub-legal standard if I have had the opportunity to read on the website of the state food inspection, nor is it specified how the fines will be assessed and how much the fines will be applied in the case of different categories of offences. The fine paragraph is quite rubbery, and since we are in Bohemia - and I now do not blame anyone from the food inspection for wanting to trade in the amount of the fine, however, it would certainly be quite appropriate for greater transparency and clarity to make it clear in advance what the fine will be for, what will be 10 million, for what will be 15 million, for what will be 30 million, for what will be 40 million. This is not clear, and we are in Bohemia. I just don't think it's right for us to leave space like this, and we should specify the individual amounts. In that law, I say and point out again, there is no such thing. What Mr. Luzar said here is one of the possible ways to deal with some things at least, and this is the relationship between the salesman and the manufacturer, which we also talked about. It is a unified administrative procedure, which is, which accumulates all the amounts of individual identified deficiencies of the controlled person - they accumulate in one amount and at a time, if there was simply for poor cleaning and hygiene X, for, I don't know, non-compliance with some hygiene regulations another Y and for double quality Z, they then have a problem sellers actually dealing with suppliers - sometimes with manufacturers, sometimes with suppliers - food of double quality, to be clear what amount they had to pay due to that, virtually. That they didn't do it. I would very much like us to have a very serious discussion on this on the agricultural committee, as far as possible - see what amendments are coming. In a detailed debate, I will sign up for the amendments that I have put into the system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u21	I will now read two apologies before I call on Mr Jan Zahradník's factual remark. Mr Patrik Nacher apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the day - ah, yes, sorry. It takes back the original apology, which was from 14.30 to the end of the day and the new apology is today from 15 a.m. to the end of the day for family reasons. And then Mr Lubomír Volný apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. So I will now ask Mr Jan zahradník to make a point of fact and also Mr Jan Bláha will be prepared for a factual one. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to point out to my fellow Members that the European Union's agenda is now dominated by so-called. Green deal for Europe, New Green Deal. This Agreement, in its point 216, deals with a strategy from farmer to consumer. It seeks to create a fair, healthy, environmentally friendly food system. So we've got some very important things ahead of us. The Commission wants to launch a broad debate in this effort, which will touch on all stages of the food chain and pave the way for a more sustainable food policy. At the same time, the Commission's joint research centre is also intended to produce a report on food quality. However, the aim of this strategy from farmer to consumer here, according to this, is not to produce food or to ensure the supply of quality healthy cheap food, but to strengthen the efforts of farmers and fishermen to combat climate change, to protect the environment and to preserve biodiversity. [[15.00 hours]] It is intended to limit the use of chemical pesticides, fertilisers, antibiotics and the risks associated with them and to this end the Commission will take measures, including those necessary for these restrictions. So we, or the farmers, will continue to limit you, are haunted by some green agreements. I don't know how much this material thinks of it, but I'm so worried it won't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u23	So, Mr Jiří Bláha will now speak with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to discuss this as we are still discussing it, so, of course, there are suggestions and one of the important things that needs to be said. The moment any citizen lodges a complaint that a small shop sells wheels with a different composition than that of Germany, how does it turn out? The institution must do, it must deal with, and it must conclude from this that there is no such thing as, in fact, we are going to say that something will be different here, when the law clearly states that the person responsible is the end person who puts it on the market. Not the one who accepts. I'm afraid that's the way it is today. That's the way it is today. Any control comes in, says clearly, you sell, you're responsible. So we need to do some sort of regulation to make sure that the control authorities and especially those who sell know what's going on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u25	Now, therefore, in the general debate, Mr Zdeněk Podal. So far, the last application to the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u26	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, allow me to introduce you to the amendment of my person and Mrs Margita Balaštíková and other Members. It is for the Government's proposal to amend the laws amending Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on food and tobacco products and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws. Now let me read the justification. The amendment aims to establish a binding share of food originating in the Czech Republic in our market of 55 percent in 2021. These are foods which meet the marketing criteria for the words "Czech food', graphical representation laid down by implementing legislation or other information, in particular verbal, visual or graphical, indicating that the country of origin of the food is the Czech Republic, regardless of whether they are actually labelled in accordance with Section 9b (1) of the Act. The amendment also aims to establish a rule of annual increase in the share of Czech food in our market by 5 percentage points until 2027. The proposal contributes to the achievement of the objectives set out in the Agenda 2030, allowing regional food producers to make their way better on the domestic market. The proposal also contributes to maintaining employment in the Czech countryside. Finally, the proposal reduces carbon footprint and contributes to commitments at EU level, carbon neutrality. This amendment is read as number 4492 of the House document. I will also sign up for a detailed debate on my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u27	I will look around to see if anyone else is interested in the general debate. Minister in the general debate. So, please, you have the floor. So, Minister Toman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u28	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. So many things have been said here, and I'm just going to say a few things, or I'm going to try to answer the questions that have fallen here. The first thing is that it's going to have an impact on small businesses, it's going to be about traders. So I, for those who have not had a chance to get acquainted with it, I just want to say - and let me quote the translation and expression of the regulation: "In the case of double quality control, liability cannot be limited to only some articles of the business chain, as this would be contrary to Directive 2005/29/EC on unfair commercial practices against consumers, which considers any marketing of goods of double quality to be misleading. Any article in the business chain can do that. Unfair practices are defined in the law of the European Union in respect of traders who, pursuant to Article 2 (b) of Directive 2005/29/EC, are natural or legal persons who act in commercial practices falling within the scope of this Directive for a purpose which may be regarded as operating their trades, trades or trades or the pursuit of their free professions. The concept of a trader therefore covers the whole spectrum of operators, i.e. the manufacturer, importer, exporter, supplier, seller and so on. In doing so, trade negotiations within the meaning of the Directive fall within the scope of the directive at different stages of the chain of trade which may harm consumers' interests.' So many quotes. And if you don't mind, I want to stress one thing. There's no way he's gonna touch it, it's not focused on small stores! No way. There is a so-called risk analysis, i.e. the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority will follow the risk analysis and there is no risk for small village shops according to the risk analysis. These are primarily transnational chains, large chains and manufacturers. Double quality applies primarily to multinational companies! On the website of the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority, we have published the whole procedure as we proceed. We have introduced both the Trade and Tourism Union and the Food Chamber and all the players who are on the market. Again, I'm stressing that someone is trying to reroute it, that we're liquidating small stores, that's a lie! I've been used to it with Mr. Prouza of the Trade and Tourism Union, and he's been threatening it for ten years! But I don't know how to explain it anymore. We're not gonna fine! And I'm saying it on the microphone. And State Agricultural and Food Inspections, small stores, and it will not examine double quality. That's nonsense! There's a risk analysis for that. I can say it here responsibly, and I'll say it everywhere. And I guarantee that the State's agricultural and food inspection will follow this because it will follow all the guidelines. That's very important. My point is that people in the Czech Republic don't consume second-grade food to stop coming here. We listed more than 22 cases on the site to describe what double quality is. From drinks to meat products, chocolate and so on. I look forward to a committee where we can clarify these things far, far more carefully. As far as fines are concerned, I just want to say that fines or penalties - the law sets a framework and here the principle of proportionality applies. That means, the smaller the manufacturer, the smaller the fine. There is also the possibility of forgiveness. I'm sorry that Mr. Bláha got off here, that he didn't tell me. We both know what's going on! Mr. Bláha, please come to me, we'll talk in the lobby. I'm not going to degenerate you here in any way. You know what's going on! Yesterday you discussed with the Director of the State Agricultural and Food Inspection. And I don't want to say it here anymore. Please don't put those things on someone else. Please! [[15.10 hours]] As far as Mr Zahradník is concerned, green deal, so definitely agree. The Czech Republic will address this within the framework of the strategic plan. And I want to emphasise, and once again, I have to say this publicly, that the Czech Republic is below the average use of pesticides, fertilisers and all other preparations. I am ready to give the agricultural committee an analysis based on European figures. I have evidence that the Czech Republic is below the European Union average in the use of pesticides and other things, fertilisers. There is a strategy for reducing the use of pesticides and fertilisers in the Ministry. We're doing well, so I think it's dropped by more than ten percent over the last three years. About the next one. Once again, as Bláha has performed, I emphasise once again, there is the principle of proportionality of risk analysis. We have it described on the website, I'm ready to justify it. And I want to say once again: the liquidation of small stores is pure nonsense. Some are trying to distract them from the nature of the problem, because it is incredibly annoying to some firms. The double quality has clearly been proven by a number of tests and I am determined to ban the double quality with your help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u29	Now I'm going to read one apology. Mr Vít Rakušan apologizes today between 15 and 19 o'clock due to negotiations. I now have one point of fact here and Mr Patrik Nacher will speak. So, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u30	Thank you. I'm not supposed to be here for 11 minutes, but I consider it such an important subject in terms of consumer protection, and we agree that fighting the double quality of food is a priority. I also boast here because the Minister has performed so emotionally, so I will, too. I already wrote about it in my book in 2015. That means it's a problem that's not fresh here, but it's a long-term thing. I'd like to thank you for his performance, because here on the microphone was what my question was going to say. That means fighting double food quality, but it doesn't affect those who can't control it from the definition of the thing, that is, small retailers. We don't talk about the chains, because they can often be contracting. So I heard it, it was important to me, so the 12 minutes were useful that I stayed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u31	So I will now look around again because we are in a general debate. I will look around to see if anyone else has any interest in speaking in the general debate. I don't see anyone, so I'm ending the general debate. I'm asking for an interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? The rapporteur? They're not interested. I therefore launch a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. So Mr. Jiří Běhounek, Mr. Jiří Běhounek, came forward first. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u32	As I have announced and justified in the general debate, I am signing up for the amendment, which is set out in the system under number 4502.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u33	I now call for Mr Leo Luzar's speech. Please take your word for it. Mr Radek Holomčík will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u34	Thank you for the floor. I would like to officially sign up here for the amendment that is being held in the system under the number 4500. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u35	Thank you. Now, Mr Radek Holomčík, Mr Pavel Kováčik, will prepare himself. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u36	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is conducted in the system as House document 4496. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u37	The rapporteur, Mr Pavel Kováčik, will now appear and Mr Petr Bendl will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u38	Thank you for the floor, ma'am and gentlemen. I am glad that the topic of dual food quality, which we have been fighting very hard and difficult for many years, has finally been given a concrete discussion of specific measures both in the Czech Republic and in the territory of the whole European Union, and we can face it effectively. One of the evergreens, or evergreen themes, to be exactly Czech, is also the question of determining the share of Czech food, or in the Czech Republic produced food, it is simply a different definition, but the share of Czech food, I will say for simplicity, on the offer in shops, especially in large multinational chains. I remember the first time we came up with this topic in 1997, when we even suggested that the share be 80 per cent, and I must say that it did not lose one single vote at the time. Since then, the fight is still in vain, and until now it appears, and especially in connection with the events of the last few weeks, that there may be a situation where the Czech food, i.e. domestic food, i.e. food produced in the Czech Republic, will need to be available, it will really be necessary to strengthen self-sufficiency in order to survive, which until recently has been an almost rude word, and now it turns out that we, who have promoted it, really meant it and were right in this respect, will become increasingly current. I here, in connection with the mandatory share of Czech food, bring an alternative proposal to the one that fell here. I'll take the liberty of reading it here. The proposal is definitely a little different, so it defines the Czech food a little differently, a little more favorable, a little easier to meet the obligation. So in the second part, I also have another number, a slightly more stringent number, a percentage. And in conclusion, I also suggest a slightly different determination of effectiveness. So may I have your attention, please? I'll read the proposal exactly. It is therefore an amendment to press number 502, to the Government Bill amending Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on food and tobacco products and on the amendment and addition of certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws. I. In Article I, the following point X is inserted after point 23: "X. The following Section 9d is inserted after Section 9c: § 9d 1) The food business operator marketing food at an establishment with a sales area of more than 400 m2 is obliged to ensure that at least 60 per cent of these foodstuffs are produced on the territory of the Czech Republic from all the items offered on the consumer's sales area. (2) The food business operator referred to in paragraph 1 shall submit to the supervisory authority, at the time of official inspection, documentation confirming compliance with the obligation referred to in paragraph 1.' II. In Article I, the following point X is inserted after point 57: "X. In Section 17, at the end of paragraph 2, the dot is replaced by the dot and the following points (k) and (j) are added: (k) they do not provide the consumer with a fixed proportion of food produced in the territory of the Czech Republic pursuant to § 9d para. 1; or (j) shall not submit to the supervisory authority, at the time of official inspection, documentation pursuant to § 9d para. 2." III. in Article I, the words " (i) or (j)'shall be replaced by the words " (i), (j), (k) or (l)'to the present paragraph 70 in Section 17f (c).'; IV. in Article VI, at the end of point (b), the period is replaced by a comma and the following point (c) is added: " (c) Article I, points x to x, which shall take effect on the first day of the sixth calendar month following its publication." So much for this suggestion. I will pass it on to the log as well as it is loaded, and I ask you to judge very carefully and objectively whether this proposal is, after all, closer to objective reality than others' proposals. It will be considered exactly the same on the agricultural committee. I presume that the shift in efficiency is in line with the rules that we adopted here in the Chamber of Deputies just recently for efficiency or determination. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u39	Mr Petr Bendl will now speak in a detailed debate and Mrs Olga Richterová will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u40	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to tell the Minister to save his nerves, he's going to need them for the agricultural committee's meeting, absolutely certainly. I would like to sign up for the amendment under number 4501.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u41	I will now ask for the speech of Mrs Olga Richterová and Mr Zdeněk Podal will be the last to prepare. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u42	I'm applying to the updated 4116 proposal, and that's about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u43	Okay, and now, Mr Zdeněk Podal will speak, so far the last application for a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u44	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, allow me to sign up for the amendment, which is in the system under number 4492 with the support of Magistra Balaštíková and others. It's House Press 502. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-04-ps2017-041-02-008-011.u45	I will now look around the hall to see if anyone else is interested in speaking in a detailed debate. I see no one, so I conclude the detailed debate and ask the Minister and the rapporteur if they are interested in the final word. You're not interested in the final word. So we don't have any proposals to vote, and I'm ending second reading of this proposal. Yes, you are not interested, and I have no proposals to vote, so I have completed the second reading of this proposal. [[He's talking to the news desk.]] I thank the rapporteur, the Minister, and we will now proceed to the next law. The Minister may remain seated, as he may well know. This is a point number
