ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-005-319.u1	319. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part, /German press 386/ - Second reading There's the same situation as the previous press. Deputy Prime Minister Karel Havlíček will speak for the apologized minister Tomáš Petříček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-005-319.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me present to you the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Singapore, on the other. The Agreement is intended to create the preconditions for strengthening relations between the European Union and Singapore in the political area. It contains all the usual political clauses on human rights, the International Criminal Court, weapons of mass destruction, small arms, light weapons and the fight against terrorism, and at the same time covers cooperation in a number of areas such as the environment, health, education, science, transport, energy and so on. The Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Singapore can only be welcomed from the point of view of the Czech Republic. We are interested in intensifying this cooperation. Bilateral relations are at a very good level in the long term, which is also evident from the contact at the top level, whether the journey of Prime Minister Babiš to Singapore in January 2019 or the visit of President Singapore to the Czech Republic in 2017. We are currently working on opening a resident embassy of the Czech Republic in Singapore, which will complement our diplomatic network in the Southeast Asia region, which, among other things, resulted from the visit of the Prime Minister last year, where it was agreed, and will be implemented. Singapore is a regional very important business and financial centre and is one of the very important trading partners of the Czech Republic in a number of activities, such as innovation is an inspiration for us, and university results, or the results of individual universities in Singapore, speak for everything. This Agreement is a mixed agreement of a legal nature, some of which fall within the competence of the Member States, some within the competence of the European Union. The Government agreed to negotiate this agreement in June 2018 and the agreement was subsequently signed at the summit, called ASEM, Brussels on 19 October 2018. This agreement is in line with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic and with all obligations arising from membership of the European Union and with commitments entered into under all other applicable treaties, as well as the generally recognised principles of international law. There are no direct implications for the state budget for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-005-319.u3	Thank you. This House press has been ordered to discuss two committees, the Foreign and the Committee on European Affairs. First, I will ask the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee, Mrs Monika Červíčková, to introduce us to the committee and to the resolution. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-005-319.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the Foreign Committee resolution of 21 March 2019 on the House of the Press. Following the justification of Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs doktor Martin Smolek, Mrs Červíčková's intelligence report and after the debate, the Foreign Committee recommends The Chamber of Deputies shall adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. Approves the ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part; II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the outcome of the discussion of this government proposal at the meeting of the Foreign Committee.'; Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-005-319.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur of the foreign committee Monika Červíčková. And since there is no rapporteur for the Committee on European Affairs, Mr Jiří Kobza, please any other member of the European Committee to introduce us to the resolution. Mr. Bžoch is ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-005-319.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, the Committee on European Affairs addressed this press at its 26th meeting on 17 April 2019 and recommends: The Chamber of Deputies shall adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. Approves the ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part; II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of the discussion of this government proposal at the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs.'; Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-005-319.u7	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Anyone reporting for the debate? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. There's no interest in final words. We may proceed to the vote. Does anyone wish to reread the motion for a resolution? No. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 123. Announced 88 MPs, for 83, against no one. We have approved the motion for a resolution. I'm done discussing this point. Point 320, i.e. the Government's proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Optional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the House Press 356, we cannot deal with this because there is no applicant, Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, and no one else has been entrusted. So I'm opening up a point.
