ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-002-191.u1	191. Summary report on the Ombudsman's activities for 2018 /German press 444/ First of all, allow me to welcome Mr Stanislav Křeček, the newly elected Ombudsman, who is already here among us. [[For a round of applause, Mr Křečka welcomes Mrs Helena Válková.]] I would remind you that we launched this item on Thursday, 23 January 2020, and we are in a state where the general debate has been interrupted, which we will continue in a few moments. However, at the beginning, I ask whether the Ombudsman is interested in Stanislav Křeček this stage of the hearing? Yes, he does. Please, Mr. Ombudsman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-002-191.u2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would take this opportunity to thank you for my election, which caused some reactions that we did not wish for or imagine. I would like to say that we would like to establish a rational cooperation with the House, so that the 2018 report is not discussed in 2020. The ratio's kind of slipping out of it. We are ready to be extended by the Chamber of Deputies and do everything we can to ensure that the Ombudsman's Office actually serves for what it has. Thank you so far and I am ready to answer any questions that need to be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-002-191.u3	Thank you. I have yet to say that the report has been renegotiated by the petition committee. This resolution of the petition committee is available to us as the Parliamentary Press 444/2. In this context, before we continue the debate, I will ask the rapporteur for the petition committee, Mrs Helena Válková, to inform us about the committee's new meeting and to present a motion for a resolution. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-002-191.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I also hope, as the newly elected Ombudsman has said, that cooperation will be continued in a standard manner now and that you will also put on the insistence of the Committee on Petitions, so that we can always discuss the reports, if possible, in the midterm, following the closure of the annual balance sheet. In this case, it's 2019, so we're talking about now, but that's still the remnant, 2020. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] I'm just gonna ask, I know it can be noise, but I have to be able to talk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-002-191.u5	Yes, of course, rapporteur, you are right. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so we can all hear information about the meeting of the petition committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-002-191.u6	I just wanted to point out at the outset that the Committee on Petitions has always made sure that the reports are discussed early, the Ombudsman's reports. So I'm fixing it one more time. In 2020, we will now approve the 2018 report. So it's not good. And the 2019 report - on the Committee on Petitions, we said that as soon as we got it from the Ombudsman at the end of April, we would discuss it as quickly as possible and that you, too, could discuss it in the first half of 2020. And now I'm going back to what the Vice-President asked me to do. This is about our meeting, when we changed the date by which it has in that resolution, if we approve the recommendation to the Chamber of Deputies, until when the government is to report on how it dealt with the legislative initiatives that emerged from that report in 2018. I have to say, some resorts will be happy because they've already done it, some won't like it, because they either haven't done it, or they haven't gotten to them. We'll see about that. So the resolution of the Committee on Petitions is: the Committee on Petitions I. discussed the Ombudsman's summary report on the Ombudsman's activities for 2018; II. Repeal of Resolution No This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. III. recommends the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament to adopt this, actually updated, resolution: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies 1. Notes the Ombudsman's Summary Report for 2018 according to the Parliament's Press No. 444; 2. Draws the attention of the Government to the importance and need to address the shortcomings identified - even then - by the public defender of rights; 3. Calls on the Government to address the legislative initiatives set out in the first chapter of the Recommendation to the Chamber of Deputies and to present to the Chamber of Deputies - and here is the change - by 30 April 2020 - or if the government still has enough room - a report on the use of these incentives by including them in its legislative plan; [[str. 8 to 15]] IV. Instructs me to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament; V. empowers me to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting. So the only change, Mr Vice-President, was on that date when the government was supposed to respond to the Ombudsman's recommendation from the 2018 report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-002-191.u7	Yes, thank you, rapporteur. This has dealt with all the formal things that had to be discussed, and we will now return to the general debate. Let me just remind you that the debate was interrupted at the moment when Mr Radek Rozvoral was called upon to speak, as the Steno Protocol tells us. So Mr. Rozvoral is now next. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-002-191.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to comment on the Ombudsman's annual report for 2018. The SPD will not give a favourable opinion on the approval of this annual report by the former public defender Anna Šabatová. Although the annual report itself is professionally graphically processed, it is divided into logically sorted chapters and, overall, makes a very good impression as a document, but I must say that we have reservations in our movement regarding the work of Mrs Šabatová as the Ombudsman, which she made in 2018, i.e. during the period to which we are expressing our views on the report. In this context, I will recall some cases that have resonated in connection with Mrs Šabatová's actions as a public defender of rights. We remember Mrs Šabatová criticizing the Krušnohor bridge housing cooperative for her statements about Romec people. However, his boss František Ryba, supported by a large part of the public, had to state, on the basis of the Ombudsman's arguments sent, that her office demanded misrepresentation of the facts, defending the interests of inadaptable citizens, at the expense of decent and working people. Let us also remember the case of alleged discrimination consists in denying the possibility of wearing a Muslim scarf during teaching at the Russian Street School of Health in Prague 10, where Mrs Šabatová entered. As a result, the school's actions against the Ombudsman were brought in order to protect the personality for maladministration and to state the Police of the Czech Republic that the Ombudsman's inquiry was not carried out impartially. In this context, Mrs Šabatová was also criticized by President Miloš Zeman, who, on the contrary, awarded the director of the above mentioned school Ivanka Kohoutová for her position in this case of state honour. Let us also remember the criticism of Mrs. Ombudsman of refugee facilities in the context of the migration crisis, to which both the Administration of Refugee Devices of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Republic itself strongly opposed. Also, Mrs Šabatová's demand as an Ombudsman that if a foreigner in the Czech Republic applies for international protection, it will not be possible to expel him, even if he came with a forged or invalid passport, he did not appear rational in the context of the migration crisis in terms of security and rejected him by the Ministry of the Interior. These selected situations have a common denominator. This is the objective of the investigation of the former Ombudsman and often of his targeted actions. For this reason, too, Members of our SPD will not support the approval of the Ombudsman's 2018 annual report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-002-191.u9	Thank you. According to Mrs Majerová Zahradníková's previous applications, which according to today's information is excused for health reasons, so she cannot perform. At the same time, in this context, I note that Minister Klára Dostálová, who has been excused for work reasons, is already canceling an apology and is present. So it is Mrs Richterová's turn to prepare Mrs Jarošová. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-002-191.u10	Hello, Mr. Ombudsman, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I would just like to briefly recall two examples of events where the Ombudsman was useful as an office, because, after the previous contribution, I think it is necessary to sort of settle the account. When a child is born in a slightly more difficult situation, such as a mother with a slight disability, unfortunately some authorities are inclined to automatically remove the child, entrust it to someone else, simply take it away from her. And in such a case last year, the Ombudsman's office helped a mother who was able to take care of her child, had all the will to do so, even to support her family, so that the authorities would not deprive her of that right, not to deprive her of the opportunity to take care of her personally. So this is one example of a quick, effective action of defending a person who himself could not negotiate with the authorities. [[11.20 hours]] And then I wanted to set a second example, and that's more systematic. I was very glad that Mr. Ombudsman accepted me last week to visit in Brno. We also talked about housing issues. And yesterday I saw that a press release came out to see how unnecessary it was when the barrier to entering housing was the impossibility of bailing out the principal. And that's the second, more systematic issue where the office points out again, if we have government numbers, if we have any idea that hundreds of people worked when they got the support with the bond composition, then they kept the housing, 80 percent of the families this was all that helped, it's a shame not to consider, evaluate and solve such system tools. I, my fellow Members, wanted to give you two different cases: defending specific families and people in very difficult situations and so on fighting the authorities and, on the other hand, to resolve some issues more comprehensively, systemically. At the same time, I would like to express my appreciation for the previous work of the Ombudsman, and I would stress that some issues have been addressed by the media, not the choice of representatives of the office, which will be publicly known. It is more a question of what journalists are asking in particular. So brief a position on what was said a moment ago, because I really feel it's important to remind me of all the good things that this office and its employees are doing for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-002-191.u11	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mrs Jarošová, there are two applications with factual remarks, just to check that this is still a mistake from the vote. President Marian Jurečka is registered with a point of fact, but I don't think that is true. And so is Mrs Pastuchová, with a point of fact. Perhaps even Mrs Pastuchová is not reporting with a factual remark. So, Mrs Jarošová has the floor in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-002-191.u12	Thank you for the floor. Good day to you, ladies and gentlemen. Let me comment on the Ombudsman's annual report on the Ombudsman's activities. Surely we all agree that this office must be the place of maximum professionalism and impartiality, because it is often the place of the last call of our citizens against violating their rights. The Ombudsman's work is in many cases worthy. Most of the incentives that come to them are social, that is to say, complaints about poorly calculated pensions or benefits for people with disabilities, children's protection and others and others. But it is very important who is elected to lead his leadership. Unfortunately, during Anna Šabatová's previous leadership, I do not believe that the office has properly performed its role, as evidenced by the declining trust of citizens. Rather, we could get the impression that rather than an impartial office, it was a very committed multicultural non-profit, which defended mostly inadaptable people at the expense of the decent. At least that's what it looked like. And our SPD movement had a problem with that. All you have to do is remind yourself of some of her actions. I'll start with a scarf case. In 2013, she took a hard stand against the director of the Central Medical School in Prague 10, who banned a student of Somali origin from bringing a hijab to school in accordance with the school rules. This very media-oriented case ended up in court. It wasn't about scarves at the beginning. The girl was to submit a certificate of residence in the Czech Republic, which she did not provide, and instead she filed a complaint with the Ombudsman's office, probably with the help of a nonprofit. Fortunately, after some time, the court expressed a liberating verdict for the defendant's director of the medical school, until then a blameless and brilliant teacher who almost damaged her health because of the pressure surrounding this case. I don't think anyone who hasn't gone through something like this will understand what she's going through. This case was said to be the most difficult for Mrs Šabatová, according to her words. So let's think about what it must have been like for the principal. It's dragging Principal Kohoutová around the courts and making her a living hell for months, and it took a really big amount of hard work and rebuttal. Unfortunately, the case is far from over, since the Supreme Court of Liberation annulled the judgment and returned the case to the Court of First Instance for further deliberation. So the principal is probably expecting another similar roundabout to defend her school, freed from religion. So while the rights of foreign nationals were defended by Mrs Šabatová in the tearing of her body, she often forgot or defended the rights of our citizens against them. This is evidenced in particular by the case of the Michalákův brothers, where she stood up for the Norwegian authorities with a statement that she trusted the Norwegian system represented by Barnevernet. It has also been criticised several times by the institutions of the European Union when it called some of its decisions on child collection more than debatable and, in some cases, illegal. Another seed bead is that Mrs Šabatová admitted that she did not actually get to know the case in more detail, which did not prevent her from supporting the Norwegian authorities at the expense of the Czech mother. Another interesting case of her work was two planted workers who called the real estate agencies at her request, presented themselves as Romka women and asked to broker a rental apartment. Here Mrs. Šabatová apparently traded her office for a new position - a provocateur agent. If I focus on other cases from the work of a former Ombudsman, it cannot be overlooked her activities in the field of law, because the Ombudsman may, in his position, recommend the Government to adopt, amend or repeal the law. Thus, a successful proposal for a law on sterilization and official sex change of transhumans arose. The way it works today is that if you want an official sex change, you need to perform a surgical surgery to transform the sex organs, which is logical. Of course, it's for whom. On the basis of the complaint received from Mrs Šabatová, the Ministry of Justice has already drawn up a draft law that would allow for an official sex change without undergoing surgery. All you have to do is go to the register and report a sex change, and every month, as I feel or as useful as I can be. Fortunately, the draft of this law has not yet entered the approval process. Another act was the proposal to abolish the so-called free-of-charge zones. Today it allows municipalities to define an area with an increased incidence of socially undesirable phenomena and persons who move into such an area are not entitled to a housing supplement. This is intended to prevent further development of business with poverty. According to Mrs Šabatová, these provisions are contrary to constitutional order and should be repealed. The Constitutional Court has not decided either. Mrs Šabatová also strongly supported the marriage of same-sex couples and recommended that the House bring them into law. She believes that couples should also have the right to adopt children, which our SPD movement fundamentally disagrees with. It also proposed several major changes concerning both family life and protection against discrimination or also education on the specifics of sexual minorities. According to her, people with a different sexual orientation should have the possibility of adequate financial compensation for discrimination, but I think they are only artificially induced problems. Probably so that nonprofits dealing with discrimination have a reason to exist and a free drawing of money from our taxes. Another activity was the proposal to amend the anti-discrimination law, although it has worked well for a total of ten years. The reason for the change is that a number of stereotypes and prejudices continue to exist. I do not think that changing this law will change someone's alleged prejudice. This was several cases during her six-year term of office. While I understand that the exercise of such a responsible and challenging function is very complex and that it is not possible to please all parties to the cases under discussion, I believe that the Ombudsman and his office cannot serve as an extended hand of various nonprofits with a political agenda and also as a party to some human rights activists. It is not possible to favour minority groups at the expense of majority society, as I often observe. And it doesn't matter whether these are the rights of Muslims, migrants, Rom or LGBT communities just because they are minorities. Just because something is a minority doesn't mean the truth is on his side. The Ombudsman's office is an institution that should enjoy the great trust of our public and should be represented by a widely recognized person. Unfortunately, I must say that this has not happened in the case of the last Ombudsman, and I firmly believe that Mr Stanislav Křeček will approach his work more responsibly and will better fulfil the mission of this office, as intended in his approval. Unfortunately, for these reasons, our SPD will not support the annual report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-002-191.u13	Thank you. Mrs Richterová will respond to a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-002-191.u14	Thank you for the floor. It is necessary to balance information, and I would therefore like to emphasise that what the Ombudsman's Office is doing in publications, what the annual report deals with, is how long-term hospitals work, how hospitals or institutions work, how people with disabilities work, how management works at construction offices, how black buildings are being removed functionally. So will any administrative dispute that gets stuck. It's just a situation where people are in trouble with the authorities. And the fact that media attention depends on those, as they say, cultural struggles, is a completely different subject. That's the theme of what the media cares about. But if we look at the annual report that discusses everything about old people, and therefore less energetic, for example, in the struggle with authorities or in health care facilities, when something happens that they are not completely satisfied with, or when the staff can't handle care because it is not well set up to operate in hospitals in the long term, all of this is described in the annual reports and in what the Ombudsman and his people want us to change and correct our offices. I think that these are not exactly topics, as has been said here, multicultural non-profits, but topics for everyone, including minorities. But for all of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-002-191.u15	Thank you. Mrs Červíčková, with a factual point, then Mrs Válková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-002-191.u16	Hello, and thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to the previous speaker, my colleague Mrs Jarošová, through you, especially to the part where you quoted in yours, I could say almost a speech about the fact that all nonprofit organisations dealing with discrimination are doing this to draw money and to live on it. I would very much like to lead you out of this mistake. And believe me, I know what I'm talking about, because one such nonprofit, which deals with discrimination against people over 50 years of the labour market, I founded more than ten years ago, we all work in it as volunteers all the time, we haven't spent a penny on grant subsidies. So I'd really like you to distinguish and not put all the nonprofits in the same bag. I'm not saying they're not here, but they're definitely not all of them. Whether most or minority, that's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about not all of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-002-191.u17	Thank you. The rapporteur in this case, Helena Válková, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-002-191.u18	Thank you. I'm just making a point. I have always thought that the Ombudsman should join together rather than divide. Now I'm being misled, but I was hoping to start a new era today. So, please, let's just remember, for example, that we have the House press number 520 here. You have signed this proposal, apart from Dr Matyášová, who is the first one mentioned, to me, also Mr Španěl, Elfmark, Šafránková, Červíčková, and there, on the initiative of the Ombudsman, we have responded to the absence of an offence that would allow the mistreatment of personnel with clients of social services facilities, in other words senior homes. We all agreed it was missing. It was one particular example for all of us. The Ombudsman has repeatedly warned us of this regardless of who it was. It was for the leadership of Anna Šabatová's public defender. So let's go back to the specific one from the general evaluations and please close the stage of the past. It is 2018, the last sentence, the public annual report really is in particular - this is not about the scarves, this is not about what Mrs Jarošová spoke about, through you, Mr Vice-President, who I otherwise appreciate very much - this is about these specific recommendations, where we agree across the political spectrum that they are needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-002-191.u19	Thank you. We are continuing the general debate. It is Mrs Kateřina Valachová's turn to prepare Mrs Richterová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-002-191.u20	Mr President, colleagues, let me comment on the Ombudsman's summary report for 2018. In my view, and this is how I will, of course, recommend it to my colleagues in the Social Democracy Club, there is no reason not to approve this comprehensive report, not to support it. Why? As far as the summary of the initiatives that people turned to the Ombudsman in 2018 is concerned, this year has not been any different from the years before in terms of what most people are worried about. On the contrary, what may be troubling a smaller group of people or a minority, however, is the Ombudsman's duty, whoever stands up for him, anyone who turns to him in the matter that we legislators have ordered him to deal with all such matters. And how else to deal as the Ombudsman than by law. No one can be heard. If I listened to my colleagues at the SPD, it can basically be summed up that their reservations are more or less directed to the ombudsman's competence in the case of anti-discrimination. The Ombudsman has not had this competence since his very beginning, he has received it from us legislators and it is his duty, of course, to do the things that we have ordered him to do. I consider it unfair and unfair of us as legislators, if I point out to anyone, not just the former public defender of Anna Šabatová's rights, we criticize that she is acting under the law and dealing with the things that people turn to them with, even if they are things that we perceive as minority rights, minority matters. It's his duty. It will be an obligation, and it is the duty of the current Ombudsman, who is a lawyer, and I have no doubt for a thousand seconds that he will deal with such cases, suggestions and complaints in accordance with the law. On the contrary, I would like to turn our attention as legislators to what we can really influence right now, if we value the institution of the Ombudsman, and it has been mentioned here by you, Mr President, by Mrs Válková. Yes, there are some things that we have taken up as legislators in the parliamentary proposals in terms of the Ombudsman's recommendations, but there are also things that we have not yet taken up and on which we will no doubt agree. Such an example has been the recommendation of the Ombudsman since 2011, which is mentioned in the 2018 report, and this is a matter of wishing or the Ombudsman's wish, it gives us a recommendation that, like in Slovakia since 2004, the authorities should instruct people that they have the right to turn to an administrative court in their case, which they do not agree with, as the Office has decided. That they have the possibility of suing. It's thousands, tens of thousands of cases every year. Here, we politicians across the political spectrum definitely agree that we care about social assistance, that we care about seniors. I would almost say that we are overreacting - but we have not fulfilled this recommendation since 2011. So I would assume that with the same verva with which we comment so called. The scarf case, we will also address these further recommendations. And I myself, because, of course, I'm a bit of a shot at myself, because I have a mandate for two years, so I'm going to address you to this matter in the near future and ask all political parties, including colleagues from the SPD, to support it. As far as what she has done or has not done the last public defender of rights, I want to mention what we also agree on. You know we don't like that a lot of people in the Republic have fallen into debt traps. We don't like the way executions work. I would like to remind you, fellow Members, that it was the Ombudsman who was very active in this matter and who, thanks to us, has managed to eliminate a number of recommendations or a number of people's problems in debt traps in recent years. To the SPD colleagues, I will remind our joint proposal to deal with child debts under insolvency. This was also supported by colleagues and I assume that they did not want to criticise the institution of the Ombudsman and the then public defender of rights. [[11.40 hours]] For the last time, my dear fellow Members, a completely pragmatic argument as to why we should actively support and, on the contrary, commend the Ombudsman for his work in 2018 by supporting this summary report. I would like to remind you, fellow Members, that at least half of this was the work of the current Ombudsman Stanislav Křeček, whom you elected as an Ombudsman a few weeks ago, and I think we should really use this institute as an extended hand of the Chamber of Deputies. This is how we should support the Ombudsman, and I believe that we will therefore end this discussion today by supporting the comprehensive report of the Ombudsman of 2018.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-002-191.u21	Thank you. And it is Mrs Olga Richterová's turn, so far the last one entered into the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-002-191.u22	Since there has been a lot of defamation of the previous public defender of rights, it seems to me only right that a quick outline of her life story should be heard. Yes, I would like to remind you that she was one of those who signed Charter 77 and who set up the Committee to defend the unjustly prosecuted for a year after that. And I just want to remind you of something, because you guys remember it a lot. I wasn't born then, but in 1978, no one knew how it would turn out, how long Communism would last. At that time, standing up for people who were unjustly prosecuted was just a huge risk, a huge courage. You didn't know how long you'd end up alone in prison. I just want to remind you of this. In 1978, no one could have known that communism would fall in 11 years. Mrs Šabatová was signed under the founding declaration such as Mr Václav Benda, Václav Havel or Ivan Medek. Then the spokesman for Charter 77 was also in 1986. It was still unclear how this would turn out. I just want to remind you that this is an unprecedentedly brave person, and therefore, although we do not have to agree far from all opinions, it is not appropriate, in my view, to de-honeise only for the disapproval of specific opinions and not to acknowledge the lifelong work, the lifelong merit in the field of human rights defence, regardless of how popular they are or are not. Let me just conclude by reminding you that this is why the UN prize winner is needed in the field of human rights or the Knight of the Order of Honorary Legion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-05-ps2017-041-03-002-191.u23	Thank you, ma'am. As I said, it was the last written application for a general debate. I'm asking if anyone's still checking in from the scene. I'm not reporting, I'm done with the debate. Is there any interest in the final words after the general debate? It's not. I therefore open the debate in detail. I have no application for a detailed debate, nor do I see anyone applying. I'm ending the debate in detail. There is no interest in the final word either, so we can proceed to vote on the motion for a resolution. I will read this resolution, which the rapporteur Helena Válková has already introduced us to, once again: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies: I. Notes the Ombudsman's summary report on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2018 according to House press number 444; II. draws the Government's attention to the importance and need to address the shortcomings identified by the public defender of rights; III. Calls on the Government to address the legislative initiatives set out in the first chapter of the recommendation to the Chamber of Deputies, page 8 to 15, and to submit to the Chamber of Deputies by 30. 4. 2020 report on the use of these initiatives, their inclusion in their legislative plan. This is a resolution that we will now vote on. There's a checkout request. I checked you all out. Please log in with your voting card again. We're ready for the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 55. Registered 130 Members, for 93, against 20. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. Thank you to the Ombudsman, thank you to the rapporteur, and I am done discussing this point. Mrs Gajdůškovášková apologizes for today's meeting at 5:00 a.m. and for tomorrow's meeting all day for personal reasons. There's a point next.
