ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u1	275. Government bill amending Act No. 246/1992 Coll., on the Protection of Animals against Abuse, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended / House print 514/ - third reading I ask that the Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, which is the agricultural committee, Mr Pavel Kováčik, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 514/5, which was delivered on 4 June 2020. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 514/6. I am now asking the appellant whether he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. You're interested, Minister. So I give the word to the Minister of Agriculture to Miroslav Toman. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u2	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to present the Government's proposal for an amendment to Act No. 246/1992 Coll., on the Protection of Animals against Abuse, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on Administrative Fees, as amended. The proposed amendment implements the transposition of the European Union Directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. It also regulates the breeding plants of dogs, introduces the definition of the breeding plant, provides for a ban on breeding dogs or cats in breeding plants. The amendment also provides for prohibited activities with selected species of predators and apes, introducing a license to perform public appearances with selected species of predators and their reproduction. The amendment further tightens the conditions for breeders of animal species requiring special care in interest farming. Another aim of the bill is to ensure that the municipal authorities of municipalities with extended competence do not have major financial problems in placing abused animals in preliminary replacement care or replacement care. As part of the second reading, which took place 3. 6. 2020. A number of amendments have been tabled, which also fall into different areas of the Animal Protection Act against Abuse. The amendments concern in particular the prohibition of the sale or transfer of the dog to the public area, the prohibition of the killing of animals by freezing, the tightening of requirements for professional competence, the issue of the right of entry of the Police of the Czech Republic into the dwelling. They are in line with the concept of the Ministry of Agriculture and will contribute to the improvement of the proposal, and I therefore agree with them. The amendments on compensation for the prohibition on the breeding of fur animals were also applied. The Ministry of Agriculture agrees with the principle of compensation as compensation for damage, in the form of a rate for individual bred animals, where the number of animals will be determined on the basis of control protocols of the Regional Veterinary Administration. At the same time, the Ministry of Agriculture agrees to lower rates. That is, that is the amendment of Mr Pošvář. As regards the decision of the agricultural committee, which has not adopted an amendment concerning the prohibition of cage breeding of laying hens, we fully support this. Our opinion is that we should let consumers decide what eggs they prefer. If there is to be a ban on cage breeding, I believe that it should be established uniformly throughout the European Union, because the ban imposed only for the Czech Republic will make our farmers' competitiveness worse and the eggs from cages will be imported into the Czech Republic. At the same time, I would like to point out that, in the event of a ban on legislation, there is not a single amendment to the proposal for compensation. That is, if the breeding of cage animals is prohibited on the basis of any amendment, there is no supplement for compensation. I would also like to point out that the sustainability of rural development projects is essentially by 2026. If you don't mind, we really have four options for banning caged hens. The first is status quo, which means not restricting anything, leaving it to the consumer. The second is a ban since 2025. This means that this is the biggest impact on the sector in the Czech Republic. Another ban since 2027. And the least bad one has been a ban since 2033. It will have consequences, but it can be communicated in some way. However, I would like to point out once again that no amendment addresses compensation for breeders. So I'm only allowed to ask, legally and morally, if you forbid cage breeding, how you want to practically compensate the breeder. Once again, it will be taxpayers' resources, but instead of supporting self-sufficiency, you will support its decline. Ladies and gentlemen, I dare ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u3	I am now opening up a debate to which I have... well, however, at third reading, the rapporteur is not entitled to speak before the debate is opened. [[Blacksmith]] But with priority rights, Mr President, you can. So here's what we're gonna do. So please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will no longer be detailed, because we have spent a lot of time on the subject. Everyone knows what's going on. As rapporteur, I will try to act very neutrally, although, of course, I have my views as a farmer with a long professional career, but I will try to be completely impartial. You have, please, a nice resolution from the Agricultural Committee, which includes the draft procedure and in which it is on page 4, which you please open nicely, I believe it is page 4, on page 4, there is point II, and in the individual opinions of the Guarantee Committee there is an opinion on row 13 A52, look carefully and pay attention focused, A52 and A54. There was a technical error in the transcript. It belongs there, and the agricultural committee as a guarantee committee also discussed it and approved it, A52 through A54. Not an "a" but a "w."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u5	I will ask you to remain calm in the Chamber because there really isn't much to hear so that the rapporteur can express himself. I beg you to rest one more time! There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u6	Thank you. I hope that, despite the increased noise level, you have been able to record this change, which neither the rapporteur nor the appellant has caused, but which must be taken into account, because otherwise we would have remained unproclaimed point A53, on which, of course, the agricultural committee has taken a position as a guarantee. And then I have, please, a few legislative technical ones. If the debate has been opened, I will allow myself to load it now. And in print 514/5, I have eight legislative technical notes or modifications. Firstly, in Amendment A3, it is rightly paragraph 5. Secondly: In Amendment A18, the figure should be 37 and footnote 1b. Third: In Amendment A19, the figure should be 38. Fourth: In Amendment A21, the figure should be 40. Fifth: In Amendment A28, the figure should be 98. Sixth: Paragraph 118 is to be rightly mentioned in Amendment A36. Seventh: Paragraph 38 is to be rightly mentioned in Amendment A56. And for the eighth time: Amendments A28, A34 and A36 will call for changes in other amendments, or on points that need to be supplemented or repealed from the perspective of legislative technical, since they have not been implemented by any amendment, even though the addition or abolition of these amendments is necessary for the proper application of the law. So many legislative technical adaptations received by the rapporteur or received by the rapporteur during the study of press 514/5. And so much so is the rapporteur's word that the draft procedure, as given by the motion for a resolution of the guarantee committee, should also be discussed and subsequently approved, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u7	I am now opening the debate. However, the factual point should be at least after the first speech in the general debate. You are really responding to someone in the general debate. This is the chairman speaking with priority rights, it's debatable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u8	You, Mr President, have already opened the debate. That is why I have been reading legislatively technical in your open debate. If there's a dispute, I'll report...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u9	It's okay, I was under the impression, but we don't have to deal with it at all, because you have priority rights. I had the impression that I gave you priority rights before the debate opened. But it's okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u10	Okay. If the debate is open, I shall report to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u11	So you need to load the legislative technical in the debate, so I will give you, with priority right, to read it, and then Mr Bendl will respond to you, and we will continue. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u12	So I refer to the legislative technical modifications to print 514/5, which I just read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u13	Thank you, we've worked it out, we're in a general debate. And now, Mr Petr Bendl will respond to you in a factual way and Mr Milan Pour will be prepared. So please, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u14	Thank you for the floor. I only respond to the words of the rapporteur, for whom I respect the experience of the House of Deputies. However, I would ask, because we are doing all this under such time pressure. How the Ministry was under time pressure to give us any comments and views on individual amendments, which are less than a hundred. Now there's another legislative tech. I think it would be fair to us to get them on paper. That the numbers are changing inside the amendments, etc., that we are terribly driving it, and I think that the significance of this law would deserve us to have adequate time for it. I don't want to delay, I know everyone's already looking at the watch, how much time we have left, and that we're gonna end up here halfway through the vote, and we're gonna drive it so fast, but it's so serious that we just can't let it go like this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u15	Now with priority right Chairman of KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka. In the meantime, I will read one apology: Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologises between 13:00 and 14:00, until the end of the day, for family reasons. Well, Prime Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u16	Thank you. It's a very monitored press, it's a very monitored novel in recent weeks and months. And, of course, this amendment responds to several important areas. The area of animal breeding, care for them and the area of abuse. There are discussing areas that concern both the prohibition of cage breeding in the case of poultry, then the issue of circuses, dressage, the use of animals in the field of falconry or in the field of film shooting, etc. And then, of course, there are things that the public doesn't follow so much in these proposals, but they are also very important, which they regulate at first sight, sometimes even small ones, but also the competence of individual authorities, especially the State Veterinary Administration, in terms of the possibilities and tools, as the State Veterinary Administration could better intervene, to have greater operational activity just in cases of animal abuse. And then there are also things that concern e.g. multiplication plants, etc. Of course, we, too, at the KDU-ČSL club, had a rather long debate on this proposal, and I will say here some summary of this debate. [[13.00 hours]] When we look at the question of cage breeding, I, as a farmer - and we have about 70 chickens at home today that we keep on the bedding, they're happy lucky chickens, I think maybe happier than the one on the Prime Minister's facebook about three months ago. Kids take care of them. And I think we should all be concerned about treating animals with the utmost ethics to create the best possible conditions for them to breed. On the other hand, however, we must also see in what context we are talking about these matters, what the conditions of breeding in other countries of the European Union look like when we have a common market. What farming conditions look like in other third countries that have access to our market, which is needed by Ukraine and other third countries, and how the decision made by the Chamber of Deputies will be reflected in domestic production, in costs, in prices and also in impacts on farmers, in rural areas, in employment. And here I think that it is a matter to be pointed out that it would be very good before the real ban on caged poultry, poultry, which is intended to produce eggs, so that this decision takes place at European Union level, so that the Prime Minister, the Minister of Agriculture, tries to do so. Because if we do this at the level of a Member State only in the Czech Republic or only in some selected countries, it is Austria, some German federal states in our area, we can achieve that our self-sufficiency will fall and there will be an increase in imports from Poland, Slovakia and some Eastern countries in particular. Of course, we carefully evaluated the variants of the three amendments in the debate. One that wants to end the cage breeding by 2025, another 2027 and then the one - still compromise - 2030. As a KDU-ČSL club we decided primarily to support the termination of the year 2027. The year 2025, in view of the need for new halls to be built, the new breeding areas are relatively short, because when you add the length of the construction procedure, you add to it the EIA procedure and so on, so in five years it is practically impossible to do so. But I would like very much, whether we vote today or two days from now, to really take our government's view that it will seek such action at a European level, because I do not want to contribute to making the situation of our breeders worse. And in addition to our European level, I would like to mention one important thing - that there should also be a ban on imports of such eggs into third countries. [[That's ……]] If this also applies to third countries, then the conditions to our breeders and the target that is being pursued here will be fulfilled. But if it turns out to be like fur animals that we don't keep them in our republic, but those products are imported from other countries and countries where they have been and are far worse conditions for breeding these animals, then it's just hypocritical. And I would also like a clear message to be given to breeders, especially those middle and small, who also have these farms, so that they can be helped in terms of the necessary investments that they will have to make when they switch to other types of breeding. As far as circuses are concerned, of course, the debate was also quite broad. And I understand people who come and say again, even in this area, we want better care for animals. On the other hand, let us compare the same. Let's not be hypocrites. And if there are proposals coming in, which are well beyond what the working group has been working on in two years, where they were representatives of all stakeholders, agriculture, the environment, NGOs, circuses and the like, who have come up with a shift, a qualitative shift in animal care in circuses, then I have to say that some of the proposals that go beyond this agreement, an agreement that means licensing, which means more stringent surveillance of animals in circuses, I wonder why these same people who put these proposals do not address, for example, some aspects of farming in zoos. Three or four weeks ago, we were able to watch a debate about what was going on with the young lynx in the Ostrava zoo. Every year parents come, children admire the newly born cubs - and where are they when others are born? Often these animals end up in rendering machines. Far from all animals in zoos are part of rescue programs. It's not always like the horse of Převalský, which then goes back to Mongolia. So let us also recognize the context that we are bringing into this debate, we want to take a step, and if it is always balanced. Whether when we're dealing with access to animals in cages or zoos or circuses, whether we can look at our houses as well, how fish, rodents, reptiles, birds in aviaries, if they are always dignified conditions, conditions corresponding to the natural conditions of these animals in the wild. Well, they're nowhere near. So please, let's try to look at these things in a really objectively rational way and let's balance these things and think about how we're going to decide and what the consequences are going to be. So much for our discussion inside the KDU-ČSL club. Thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u17	Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. Before I give the floor to those who have now signed up for priority rights, I'll introduce you to a note. Mrs Černochová apologizes for today's meeting from 13:20 pm to the end of the day for working reasons, as she will be marrying. And now, with priority rights, Mr Válek has volunteered to me for the TOP 09 and then Mr Faltýnek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u18	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It is always difficult to vote and discuss legislation where emotions, facts and, let's say, science do not meet, but they often face each other. I would try to sum up the opinion of the TOP 09 club that we discussed over the long term, and I dare say that I'm more of a candidate in that club than a candidate in those facts and science. The reason is simple. I am not a farmer, but in Brno was one of the strongest institutes of experimental pathophysiology led by Professor Vašek - who are doctors from Brno, so they know him very well. Aa Professor Vashků in long, long before 1989, he did a number of studies of stress factors in animals under different conditions. I remember very well the work that the cow does when it heats up or cools the pituitary gland, when it ovulates or does not ovulate the dove when it looks in the mirror and so on, and the work at that time seemed a little fun, but in today's context and from today's point of view they really worked with hard data and evaluated the quality of the state of living nature, the state of animals and the influence of various types of stress on the animals, and then on the products it produces, whether it is meat, whether it is eggs. I think that many of you who are in agriculture know very well the work of stress impacting, for example, pork meat, the last ones I have read, and the impact on calcium and Krebsův cycle, respectively ATP, ADP and changes, and what it does in the quality of meat, how huge the impact it has, and knows that this influence is far stronger possibly than genetic influence. Perhaps some of you who were here in 2005, when, I think, or 2012 were voted on about those enriched cages, they would remember the publications, I suspect, the professors - now I dropped out - the Fialová, who were doing a rather large study and found that the eggs could actually be worse, because microbes penetrate through the shell inside. In the end, it turns out the results aren't really like that. Let's just look at it in a way like some progress, some development, some change. For this reason, we believe that the TOP 09 club needs to be supported by amendments that will put an end to cage breeding in some horizon so that, of course, it will affect as little as possible those who will have to adapt to it and, of course, we are concerned with quality products for our citizens. We will probably support all these options, but we are ready for discussion and ready for debate. As far as the circus is concerned, it's about pure emotion. I'm 100% sure if, after finishing Kubula and Kuba Kubikula here before, I don't know, thirty, forty years, it was worth fighting to keep the bears going. Who's gonna remember who the bearman was today? Who even knows? The kind of professions that worked with animals in different ways, it just was, and it is, and it will be, and the shift in that is changing. [[13.10 hours]] I, as a TV monitor, not as a politician, not as an MP, have watched discussions about whether or not dogs can be trained in the burrows, whether some types of competitions are possible. I remember the emotional manifestations of fur animals and the speeches of various Members and Members. It's just that when you look at this historical way, you find that a lot of things have changed, whether we wanted to or not, simply because there is a shift in perception of man and nature, the perception of living and inanimate nature, the number of reservations is expanding, more and more people realize that nature needs to be thought of as a complex and of the future. And that changes, even if it is not completely understandable in the short term and maybe there are strong counterarguments why not push the saw, even perception and access to, for example, animals in the circus. We're talking about wild animals, wild animals, in the circus. And once again, whether we want to or not, the animals will disappear from the circus sooner or later. Circuses will change, they will transform. Nostalgia for the Humberto Circus is simply useless. On the other hand, let's remember Cirque du Soleil, who's somewhere else, and it's something else. As the magician who pulled rabbits out of his hat disappeared and replaced him with David Copperfield with sophisticated very expensive tricks, this too will disappear. I don't think we need to do anything drastic and terrorize any party about it. However, the TOP 09, on the one hand, is because we are co-chairmen of the amendments and, on the other hand, because we consider them to be right, we will vote in this direction in a united way and we will vote in favour of gradually disappearing wild animals from the circus. I understand the objections about the different complex conditions for animals kept at home, and I don't like it either, and I think there's a lot of work to be done there. I understand the circumstances of the circus, but let's be honest again and remember what was one of the aims of the circus, and a number of circuses are approaching it more and more, returning these animals to the wild and keeping the animals that would otherwise have died out, so as not to die out, and saving the dying species. That was one of the strong roles of circuses and zoos. koneckonců all, let us remember Mr Vágner and his zoo, the rhinoceros of Africa and others. Here is the TOP 09 position, and we will also vote in this spirit. Indemnification of fur farms, and I repeat it again, I have said it here once before, but I will say it very briefly again, I consider it right, necessary, must be reasonable. For me, and this is the opinion of TOP 09, it would be optimal for the compensation - basically, through the President, I am standing behind Mrs Balaštíková - to be based on the real costs of the nine farms - I did not know that there are only nine of them - and not to be any clear fixed number, because then some will get more, some will get less, some will be dissatisfied. This can happen because every time it's average, it's a happy one that has the mean, then some half is more satisfied and the other half is less satisfied, I don't know the median. However, we are also prepared to support these proposals if they are reasonable and if they are at some meaningful level, which will not significantly burden the budget. This is because the transition period was really short. And that's why we don't quite share the argument about banning caged hens, even though I totally understand him, and I'm glad that the Minister of Agriculture put it that way, because that's his job, and that's how he should formulate it as the Minister of Agriculture. He's not the Minister of the Environment, he's not the Minister of the chickens, but he's the Minister of Agriculture. On the other hand, he knows as well as I do that European legislation, if the transitional period is five years or more, does not order some kind of compensation and there is no reason to do so. However, I do not see the problem of not discussing, at the next stage, how to somehow support the breeder, so that the transition from the cages is as simple as possible for them, so that it does not reflect on the price of eggs and that even the consumer gets as high-quality eggs from free breeding as possible. I think he should definitely be our target. Finally, let me say that our fears may not be as strong as they may seem on the outside, because let us be aware that we are discussing the Czech food law in parallel and the double quality of food. Let us remember that it was said here that perhaps 85 percent of some foods should be Czech. If we really have this idea in our heads, if the biggest clubs really come seriously with this idea, then I don't think that in parallel there is a fear that someone from abroad could import something here, if there is such a high percentage in the law for some products that they must be Czech. You always have to put it in context, and I put it in context. And even though these proposals aren't exactly from our club, they calmed me down and made it easier for me to sort of support the end of cage breeding. So for me, don't be afraid to vote according to your conscience and consciousness, the changes will happen anyway. We can easily stop them, but we can't stop them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u19	Thank you. Let's see if we can get a vote today. President Faltýnek is now registered with priority rights. After that, I was authorized by the SPD for Mrs Jarošová to present the club's position. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u20	Good afternoon, colleagues, Mr Vice-President. Unfortunately, I am unable to tell you the position of our club, which is the largest in this Chamber of Deputies, because we have not been able to make a clear agreement. I, as chairman of the agricultural committee, can inform you, and you know this also from the opinions that you have in the materials that the agricultural committee has quite a large majority rejected the ban on caged laying hens in all variants, including Martin Kolovratník's variant, which some of us consider to be a compromise. Of course, I will not even support Martin Kolovratník as chairman of the agricultural committee for myself. All my life, 35 years actually, I've been in agriculture, working in agriculture, and I wouldn't say it better than former Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. I would like to thank him, through Mr President, for his speech and, in particular, for the last two things he said that we should all appeal, although it may sound strange from my mouth to the Minister of Agriculture, to the Government, to the Prime Minister, to try to reconcile notes within the European Union in all Member States, in Poland, in Romania, in Hungary, in Greece and in Portugal. And, of course, we will keep our fingers crossed in this activity, but at the same time, we have an idea of how this effort will turn out. Our Prime Minister's opinion on this matter is very clear, it is for the ban on cage breeding. At our club he appealed to our colleagues to support Martin Kolovratník's compromise proposal, and I believe that most of our Members will support Martin Kolovratník's proposal, even if I, as chairman of the agricultural committee, will not support it. So that's just very briefly on my part. We do not have a binding vote on this matter and I believe that Mr Kolovratník's proposal will pass. However, with regard to the other things that Professor Válek mentioned here before me, we have given a clear opinion on the Committee on Agriculture that we support the proposals that will gradually deal with the dressage of animals and so on and so on, so that the compromise has been found there and I believe that these proposals, which are included in the proposals of the Committee on Agriculture and have positive opinions, will pass. To that concern, Professor Vlastík Válek through Mr President, you know very well that when it comes to the Food Act, if there is any proposal for any percentage on the counters of Czech shops, the percentages will be around 60, 65 percent of Czech food, which is de facto the current state. Today, based on trade chain data, which have 85 per cent of the food market in the Czech Republic, it is 59 per cent on average of all items on the counter for our customers. So I wouldn't worry about the eggs. I rather like the idea that it would be a good idea for a colleague of the Minister of Agriculture to ask his colleagues how they view this within the European Union that the Czech Republic would prohibit imports of cage eggs into the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u21	Thank you. And now I have some factual points. First is Mr Sklenák and then Mr Kováčik. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u22	Thank you for the floor. I have applied in response to President Faltýnek's words, and also to some previous speakers, that it would be most appropriate for the European Parliament to adjust the question of the ban on caged hens. I think most of us agree with that idea. But I don't think we have the same opinion as we have on this very conclusion of the European Parliament. President Faltýnek said that we should appeal to the European Commission, the European Union. And I think that the best appeal will be if national parliaments start adopting adjustments to ban cage breeding at a certain distance, because before we get to that efficiency, I am convinced that the European Parliament will be the one to adopt the uniform adjustment. And I know that the European Parliament has dealt with, dealt with, and will certainly address this issue. I think it is the will of the European Parliament to adopt a single regulation. But I think that if we, as a national parliament, want to do something about it, the best we can do is to adjust it within our legal order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u23	Thank you. Now, Mr. Kováčik. Mr Bláha will prepare for a factual remark. Quiet in the hall, please. And Mr. Kováčik, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u24	Thank you for the floor. In this controversy, I must exceptionally oppose President Faltýnek through Mr President, because if we were to follow the countries he has appointed within the European area, Hungary, Poland, Romania, I believe Lithuania was there too, if we were to coordinate the procedure with these very countries, we would, please, have to go back to the unenriched cages. And that's not our goal. Personally, I am prepared to very vehemently support the ban on cage breeding at the moment when it starts to apply this ban effectively in these countries, because we know that, in particular, Poland and Lithuania are driving cage eggs to almost all the rest of Europe, no matter how they say it, it is so, especially to the production, not to the counters. It is noble when the strings say: there will be no cage eggs on the shelves at all. All right. But this is about 50 percent of the country's consumption. And the other 50 per cent are consumed by cheap cage eggs from precisely these farms in production, whether they are food or other food production from eggs and egg matter and egg molasses and separate egg matter and the like. So I'd like to pour pure wine to myself and everyone else that's what this is all about. That is why I, as a farmer, will not support any of these proposals, but I am prepared to continue to discuss the real introduction of a ban not on mere sales, but on the use of cage eggs throughout the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u25	Thank you. Now, Mr Podal, Mr Bláha, will be prepared with factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u26	Dear colleagues, I'd rather ask. Isn't that a shame or a waste of law? Isn't it up to our citizens to decide for themselves? It's very simple for them. If they stop buying eggs from cages, it will be resolved. And we don't have to make any laws. If it is said today that most Czech citizens are for eggs from non-cage breeding, then let them buy them. And at that point, they give a clear signal to the producers that they don't want egg from cage breeding. And it will be settled. Customers will demand eggs from non-cage, traders will order them, manufacturers will respond, they will of course deliver them. It'll all change itself. It won't cost us a crown of subsidy or a crown in a court where potentially affected entrepreneurs could be judged. And we're done. So let's tell the citizens, buy eggs from non-cage breeding, and we don't have to deal with this here and discuss whether it's right or wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u27	Thank you. Mr Podal now. Mr Kováčik will be prepared again with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u28	Thank you for the floor. Dear ministers, colleagues, colleagues, I would take it from a slightly different end. In view of the ongoing pandemic and the emerging economic crisis, I put people first, not chickens. I would very much like to emphasise that. I have no illusions about the European Union at all. So talking about solving it for us, I wouldn't expect that. So I'm against the ban on cage breeding. And I hope we have more support for us who oppose it. And I thank the Minister and others who will support this idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u29	Thank you. Now, Mr. Kováčik. Mrs Levová will be ready. I have a note before Mr. Kováčik arrives. Mr Výborný apologies from 13.30 to the end of the day for working reasons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u30	Thank you for the floor. I assure you, colleagues, I really do not want to delay. As rapporteur, I would like to have the vote behind me. However, the discussion has been such so far, I would say... I agree with what colleague Bláha has said here, no doubt. I also use such challenges myself. Citizens, buy eggs from enriched farms. Buy non-cage eggs. In our country, who has homemade eggs, they're the best. But I would like to ask Mr President, if he gives me a moment of attention, Mr Bláha. [[The appointed member is debating with a Member of Montenegro.]] Thank you. See if he knows what he's making out of the melancholy he's buying. If he knows if the melancholy is really enriched... So the egg melancholy is a mass that is created by separating the inside of the egg from the shell and blan sub-cranny to be clear, and it is used technologically, for example, by bakers. If he knows that the melancholy, the raw material for his products, is made of non-cage eggs, or from cage eggs, whether it is from the Czech Republic or Poland, or from Lithuania, from Romania, or from a completely different end of the world. Like here, there's 50 percent of the consumption of caged, cheap ingredients from caged eggs that we're also talking about. And there will really be nothing but a ban on use, not just sales, a ban on the use of cage eggs throughout the European Union at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u31	Thank you. Now, Mrs Levová, then Mr Bláha came forward with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u32	Thank you for the floor. I want to respond to Mr Bláha through you. It's like hearing is deceiving me! How can you even say that in here? It's the same as when you were talking about animal abuse, when you were talking about dogs and abused animals, you said, well, if there's no demand on the black market, then people just don't abuse them, and they don't have black breeding, and so on. It's exactly the same, isn't it? The hand of the market. What kind of argument is that? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u33	Thank you. And now Mr Bláha will respond with a factual remark, as he has been asked. I'll ask for more peace in the room. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u34	I don't know what kind of abuse you're talking about. It's obvious you haven't grown a chicken yet. [[Disarray and entertainment in the hall.]] Or didn't, I'm sorry. I didn't. If you'd kept those chickens, you'd have figured out that chickens often cancel themselves out. That means if there's more breeding, because they're cannibals, they're after each other. And they're going at each other hard. And the more of them in breeding, the worse for the weaker. And I've experienced it x-times. I had to deal with it x-times that I was giving the chickens away because that's when the one person wouldn't make it. It's a normal condition. And a hen is a creature who prefers a smaller state than a huge number of them together. That's one thing. [[13.30 hours]] And the second thing we use in manufacturing. We definitely use eggs in production mainly safe, i.e. checked by certified breeders, and we don't care if they're caged or caged. Because it's important to us that it's safe food, that it's not salmonella and that we can't infect you. And what's also important is that it doesn't affect the price of the products. Because most people in the Czech Republic don't take 100 grand like us MPs, but they also work for 18, and believe that they don't have a chance to decide what eggs they're going to buy, because at that point they wouldn't have to go to kindergarten, school and other matters. So think about whether there are more citizens in the Republic who take more than 20,000 clean or those who take extra money, and for them we need to figure out what we're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u35	Thank you for keeping time. And now, again, Mrs Levová will respond with a point of fact. Then we get to the priority right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u36	Thank you for the floor. Let's get back to your first speech. It was about not buying the eggs, we wouldn't sell them, there wouldn't be any demand. The way I reacted to it, it's a parallel to the Animal Abuse Act for me, so if people don't want black dogs or other animals, we won't actually have them. So there was no talk of what you said here in your second speech. About the price. I knew this was coming. So please, I've prepared a comparison with Austria where the ban is. So please, in an online store in Austria, it costs 10 eggs of EUR 1.69, if it is CZK 26 per conversion, it is roughly the same price as in our online store - 44.90. [[It shows it as shown on the big signs.]] It's only if we're talking about the prices here, so that we have a comparison of how it really is, not how somebody calculates it on paper. And then I wanted to go back to the cages and the needs of the animals. For me, if the chicken can't dig, because it's one of the greedy, it's probably the same as if the fish can't swim, because I won't give her water if I don't give the chicken space and give her the chance to do what's natural. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u37	Thank you. There are now several different applications for the debate. First of all, Mr Okamura, then Mr Bláha, again with the facts and then with the others. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, the animal protection law we are discussing now aims to increase the level of animal protection in the Czech Republic. And the SPD is fully promoting that we protect animals from abuse, harming their health and killing them for no reason. Our SPD movement is not indifferent and we will support any legal protection of animals and their improvement in life, and we are also promoting this in the long term. I will briefly mention the amendments of the SPD movement prepared by our Member, Monika Jarošová, which extend and prohibit methods of animal cruelty and killing. One. This is the freezing of animals alive without prior stun. This brutal method has not yet been banned in the Animal Protection Act and we propose that it be prohibited to freeze animals without previous stunning. We also want to remove dogs and cats from the list of laboratory animals. We take the view that in the 21st century, the practice of an experiment-based industry with defenseless creatures should be put to an end, namely, we want to remove dogs and cats. Furthermore, we want to register the identification number of the dog, so called. The chip, in one of the existing private registers, is also free of charge, which will contribute to the fight against multiplication and at the same time a better lost dog is being tracked down. Another proposal from the SPD is to increase administrative sanctions for animal cruelty, which have not been increased since 2008 despite the high brutality of the perpetrators on animals. And our last amendment is an obligation to distribute designated animals in animal stores by gender, because unfortunately, today it does not solve too much for the sales of live animals, so it happens very often that although you do not want to buy pregnant females, we believe that each female is to be covered for the first time after the end of the biological maturity that varies with different animals and must be in good shape. Then we'll see unwanted additions and there's an unwanted multiplication. For the SPD movement, I say we support all the good proposals that contribute to improving animal life. Thank you for your support and our amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u39	Thank you. Now, Mr Bláha, with a factual remark, and then the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to answer my colleague's question about how it is with the chickens, because it's obvious that there's obviously a little bit out there other than the people who come into contact with them. But I want to answer her price. If you think that people who take 18 grand clean max, but there are people who take 15 grand clean, buy eggs from 4.30, you're wrong. He'll never buy it! Never! They'll wait until he's in action in 1.60, 1.80 to 2.00. And that's the difference between you and me. I live with these people. I'm with them every day, every day I'm with the regulars who buy and have to save every crown so they can live normally. Because they don't go home with 100,000 like you. He's not. And believe me, if they want to get a kid a computer like your kid, or a better watch, or a better bag, they have to save money on something! And that's what's on the food. Yeah? So if you said a comparison with Austria here, at 4.30, you might be buying an egg from us. Neither do I. In production, eggs normally move from 1.30 to 1.80. If they were more expensive, the baker wouldn't stand up at the market! Nobody's gonna buy that product from him! This is how we live. You go to the store, you buy a roll for 50 penny rather than four crowns at the baker's! That's just the way it is. So think, ask ordinary people how they live, and maybe you'll come to some opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u41	Thank you. Mr. Sklenák now. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u42	I think it's pretty good that it's almost 14 hours and we're gonna be done because this debate is getting back to where it shouldn't be. But I just can't do it, I have to respond to Mr. Bláha. Because, Mr. Ambassador, if you're quoting or expressing any of your assumptions, you should say what you're basing them on. You're wrong. You're saying that bedding eggs are essentially more expensive and that people who make 18 grand won't buy them. Okay, first of all, if you look at how many baskets online stores today. cz, Rohlík.cz offer bedding eggs, so it is basically at the same price as the cage. It's just reality. That's right, you can check that right now. Second thing we do, surveys, where citizens of the Czech Republic are asked whether they are willing to pay extra for the eggs offered only from bedding farms, and a large majority respond that they do. And basically that's true, so you can deduce it from the fact that the big chains have committed themselves not to offer the cage eggs at all since 2025, they just won't have them on offer at all, because people just don't want it. Well, that's one thing. And the other thing. How many eggs will you please eat in a month? How many eggs will your family consume? You're saying it like it's a food that, when one egg gets expensive by 40 cents, these people won't have any more basic life needs. So I'd like to, since we're having this debate to really lean on some facts, quote some background, and not that "I live with these people, I know how they feel about it."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u43	Thank you. Now please, the Minister, with a factual remark, if he is interested. And please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm listening here, and I'm very glad everyone understands. I really appreciate it, and I want to thank you for your interest in raising chickens. However, if you don't mind, a few sentences. I take it that I will propose in the European Union that chickens are united - and now I will leave it to them as it is. But I guarantee you that they will at least unite with Poland, Estonia, Lithuania, so we will return at least to where we are today after our ban. I'll promote it, but it's just idealism. [[13.40 hours]] The second thing is, Mr. Sklenák, I am very sorry, but Mr. Bláha has been in this business for a long time. He knows where he buys from, he knows how much he buys. And please divide the eggs into two groups. One is what is sold in the store, and the other is which are used in the so-called. food industry. Those are two different categories. I'm not stopping it at all, and let people buy bedding, no bedding, no organic eggs, whatever they choose to be. I'm not even talking about the price right now. But if you're talking about industry, there's a competition for every penny. I can sign that for you. And the one who determines the price on the counter is the strings. They're not the farmers, they're not the food producers, they're not the farmers. So if anyone compares any eggs etc., that's just nonsense. This is where a lot of eggs are used in the industry. And that's where the suppliers die, in quotation marks, who deliver to the industry. That's the whole story. And if you're okay with that, vote for it. There's nothing I can do about it, I can only disagree with it. And then I'd just like to ask you one thing, since there are experts in the chicken breeding business. A hen is greedy, not greedy. Maybe someone else is greedy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u45	Thank you. Mrs Levová is another signed up with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u46	Thank you for the floor. I am so glad that the Minister said that Mr Bláha was actually talking about business and actually about his business and not about the poor people he was protecting himself with. And as for the poor people and the price comparison, I've listed two prices from an online store that were both without a discount. Of course, discounts are also made on these products, and if someone really doesn't have the revenue to buy the egg for 4.40 in Austria anyway, they'll just wait for the discount anyway. So it seems to me that this debate is meaningless because you're kicking for business here, not for the poor people you're patronizing! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u47	Thank you, and those were all factual remarks at the moment, so now I have an application... No, it's new. Mr Bláha, then Mrs Balaštíková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u48	Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to answer through the President if I am doing business here. No way. It doesn't really matter to me, because if there's eggs from non-cage breeding everywhere, then we're all gonna have the same bakers. The only reason I'm here is to use common sense and not want to do something that's completely pointless that people can decide. And as a result, the chickens will still act on their own terms. You think those chickens, when there's a hundred of them together, is that okay? Well, go check it out so you can see it. When there are 15 of them together, they get sick. And if there's a hundred of them together, really, believe that cannibalism will prevail. And you won't even find the chicken they've made, because by the time you get there, they already ate it. That's just how it works. And it's just different that you're sitting here on the bench, and I'm running at home with the shovel and the pitchfork. That's the difference! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u49	Thank you and please Mrs Balaštíková, who is currently the last to be registered with a factual remark. The MP says it's a mistake, so nothing. In that case, we could now move in the debate to the priority right of Mrs Jarošová, but I do not see here, so it falls to the end, and please Mr Pour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u50	Thank you for the floor. vážený President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also decided to speak in the debate on the Animal Protection Act, on the point of possible prohibition on cage breeding of laying hens. That huge e-mail massage from animal protectors, who in the past few days and weeks of me, but of course I assume that all of you sitting here have also been affected, and who have received the appeals, the requests, the requests, to vote against the caged hens, have certainly raised me. I realized that two targeted reports from laying hens had met the expectations of contracting authorities, as they aimed directly at the emotions of the citizens who had seen these reports. It is no wonder that many citizens of our homeland who do not know the problem of poultry farming after seeing both reports on Czech television did not remain so-called eye dry. Many may even have wondered what kind of poultrymen assholes they are. As an agricultural engineer, more than 30 years outside of agricultural practice, I refreshed the problem of laying hens breeding again when visiting the Czech University of Agriculture in Prague with Professor Tůmová from the department of special zootechnics. After consulting this poultry-breeding expert and also after reading several expert states on this issue, I present several factual arguments which did not appear in both Czech Television reports. For example, it is shown by several studies that the mortality of laying hens in enriched cages is twice as low as on bedding, slightly lower than in aviaries, and even more than four times lower than in free runs. So the question is, why is it so surprising? But it's simple. In fact, my colleague, Mr Bláha, was also talking about this. It is evident from the behaviour of laying hens that, compared to enriched cages in large groups of animals, small groups and their hierarchy are disrupted, resulting in an increase in the mutual intensity of eating and aggressiveness, which goes all the way to cannibalism, and thus increases mortality. In addition to cannibalism, in large flocks hysteria and other undesirable behavior changes are also manifest, which reduce animal performance. High - laying hooves are more sensitive to stress and become more vulnerable. In breeding on bedding and in free runs, the laying is also 4.4 % lower, or 6.4 % lower than in enriched cages. Also, and this is interesting, the proportion of eggs with damaged shell is almost four times higher on the bedding and almost twice as high in the aviary and free run than in the enriched cage. Feed consumption is also higher on bedding and in the aviary and in the free range than in enriched cages. So I can vividly imagine the report of Czech Television, which this time is from breeding laying hens living on a bedding bed or in a free run at the end of the laying cycle, when the laying hens are less feathered, where this time the camera would detect dead laying hens, untreated laying hens or damaged eggs, and the commentary would tell the truth about actual deaths and more information. But I suppose we wouldn't be dealing with a cage ban here today. It should be mentioned briefly that already in 2012 the Czech Republic switched to enriched cages for battery cages. Enriched cages have more room for laying hens, namely 750 square inches of original 550 square inches. This was managed by animal protectors after dozens of campaigns eight years ago and then defended before abolishing exemptions and deferrals. At the time, this meant huge investments in the Czech Republic, whose return is calculated for about 15 years. However, in 2012, the European Union still had 13 states admitting that it had failed to comply with the 1999 European Union decision to ban cages. It must also be said here that Poland, which is our biggest competitor on the egg market, did not pass until 2017. If we abolish the now enriched cage breeding in our homeland, it would once again mean a huge investment in the order of several billion crowns for our hens and there is also a legitimate concern about imports from other countries of the European Union and third countries, as the Minister of Agriculture said earlier. This could further reduce the self-sufficiency of egg production on our market, which is now around 84 percent. [[13.50 hours]] If the Czech, Moravian and Silesian consumer were so aware and proud of our products and preferred them to import food, as is the case in Germany and Austria, where they had already banned enriched cages, then these concerns about the decline in self-sufficiency would not be appropriate. But we all know, and again my previous speakers have said that the reality in the behaviour of Czech consumers is quite different. That is why I am in favour of a total ban on cage breeding of laying hens, which also means enriched cages in our homeland, but only if this happens in the territory of the whole of the European Union, as well as with this step there will be a ban on imports from third countries. Of course, I also know that most chain stores have already nodded to animal protectors and will gradually end the sale of eggs from laying hens in enriched cages, by 2025 at the latest. However, I do not blame these chains for their approach to this challenge. For example, in the case of eggs from bedding or free-range breeding, these chains have a much greater profit for one egg than for caged eggs, so that their decision cannot only show love for animals, but a vision of greater profit when they sell only eggs on bedding or out of the enclosure. Finally, I will not forgive myself for asking you all a rhetorical question, who will benefit from this, that today, on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, we will ban the breeding of laying hens in enriched cages. And it's always a question mark. Chickens? Protectors of animals? Citizens of our country? Our farmers? Business chains? Or perhaps importers from Poland and third countries? Everyone, please answer that when you vote to cancel the cage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u51	Thank you. Mr Rakušan apologizes for today's meeting from 13.45 to the end of the day due to the working session. Now here again I have three factual points. Mr Bláha is the first Member to prepare Mr Válek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you once again for the data that has just been said here. I think if you were listening, it was clear. Where there's a greater mortality rate for chickens, where there's a smaller bag, where there's a greater breach and food safety, that's why. And that's what it's all about. So if fewer chickens die in cages, what's better for the chicken? What are we after - to have fewer dead or more dead? Just compare the facts that are, use common sense, and I think we'll all get to it - let's leave it to the people to buy what suits them, let's choose, and let's act accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u53	Thank you. Mr Válek now, Mr Lipavský will be prepared with factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u54	Thank you, Mr President. The way I see it now, when the meeting is over, we're gonna run into the pet store, get each of us a chicken for the weekend, keep it at home in different ways, grow some, as I understand it, and on Tuesday we're gonna have a personal experience with the chicken that was happier, less satisfied. I recommend using Dornerův's chicken satisfaction scale, which is international. Then we'll put it together like this, and the way it works, we'll decide. I think we should talk really seriously about whether or not there's a shift, there's nowhere to go. I don't think it's entirely happy to argue with any outside state or anything. Seems to me like a guy brings a four from school and argues that classmates have a five, so that's still good. When they get a four, maybe they'll consider the three. What do I care how it is elsewhere? I want it to be as good as possible for our citizens to have the best quality and best products as possible. Let's do the best we can. I understand completely, I am not a farmer, but I understand and am rooting and I am trying really hard to absorb the arguments of the Minister of Agriculture, President Faltýnek, through Mr President and others of you who are farmers, and I know that about them and I am trying to process the reasonable arguments in some way into my opinions. But let's have some serious fun. I think the debate about how we're gonna know whether the chicken is happy or not... I remember my internships at the psychiatric clinic, where there was a group of patients who could see it from their point of view. I don't want to get in there, folks. Let's get the law into shape so it'll be a shift for Czech agriculture and Czech consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u55	Thank you. Mr Lipavský has withdrawn his application, so now it is Mr Klaus' turn, but I will ask him whether he wants to make it in five minutes or whether we should be done. Mr. Klaus will make it. Please, it's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u56	Hello, since I've been waiting here for hours, I'll try to make it. I'm fascinated by how many chicken experts are here, a little bit of greed and greed is mistaken, or if it's grown and behaved, I'll try to sign up for it, too. My mother-in-law, my ex-wife, she's got chickens, so she even has them in a little garden in the Troja in Prague, where the houses are like 80 million dollars, and there they run and they're happy, okay? So that's important. I might get some eggs today, so that's one important moment. The second moment is that we're watching the populism festival here. We as trikolóra are strictly opposed to animal abuse, we are willing to support those parts that concern multiplication. I just don't want to live to see the animal be abused more than the grandmother's robbery here somewhere that's gonna take a pension, but that's the second thing. But if we're against the cages, you don't mind the bunnies, the chickens don't mind, and then people still love going to the zoo, so you don't even mind the zoo. Maybe I live near the zoo, and I used to go there with the kids, especially in the winter. Well, I've always been very sad about it, looking at those degenerate animals in those cages, but people go there mass, thousands, so no one dares to open this topic here, obviously be quiet, but the chickens, they've been writing about it in Blesk right now, so we're all gonna talk about it. I would like to call Mr Skopeček from the parliamentary buffet, because he here so much, when we were talking about the self-sufficiency of Czech food, so much attacked me here, that any regulation and bureaucracy is not right-wing at all, even Mr Bendl laughed himself, as he said nicely - that is the funniest ones after laughing at it himself, so now come to the microphone, because you do nothing but regulate, which you will eliminate Czech poultrymen, and the eggs from the cages will come here from Poland, Lithuania and elsewhere. Here I would point out that it is often cheating, too, because no one will know where it was conceived on the egg, like when you have the baby, so you can't see whether it was conceived in the prison for a short visit, or in the Maldives at sunset in some beautiful resort. So I'd really like to hear it from this ODS, if you're always like this, depending on what those polls say, what's going to come out right now, or whether you're being principled. Because you're exactly the same as Babiš, even worse. He's sending these nice farmers who like to fight against it, but, of course, the instruction is kind of independent to go through it, because it's going to look good in the media. So it's exactly the same thing. Well, about the chickens. My observation at the cottage, also the neighbors had them. I think they're even smarter animals, like a fox, or I don't know, a dolphin, a dog, but I really wish they had the good stuff, so they have an office like Mr. Vondráček and just one faucet, right, like we have to live a happy life. But then the egg would cost 37 grand, and that just doesn't exist in reality. I'm not an expert on the deaths in the free breeds, I'm not gonna comment on that. But really, I'm willing to support that law when there's no cage eggs growing anywhere, and there's really gonna be technology that recognizes it. Then it makes sense, so let the animals really have the best life possible. We're gonna kill them and eat them anyway, let's face it as humans, but okay. But until it is recognizable, it is only the liquidation of part of the Czech food industry and nothing in return. That's kind of my point of view. And I made it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-19-ps2017-049-10-003-275.u57	Thank you, too. And given what time it is and what the atmosphere is in the O.R., and the general custom, so since it's 14 o'clock, I'm interrupting... Or I can't actually interrupt this meeting. I suggest we remove any remaining and unnegotiated points from this meeting. I am interrupting this item, and I propose that we remove all unnegotiated items from the agenda of this meeting. If no one else has a proposal, I'm going to sign you off, and I'm going to ask you to come forward again. Then we'll vote if it doesn't work out, so we'll determine when we'll meet on this show next time. [[There is not enough Members to vote in the Chamber.]] I'm gonna go on, if anybody comes in... If no one comes, I'll have to announce when we'll adjourn this meeting on schedule. Who remembers? [[Conjecture from the diaper. - The President off the microphone: so we have a schedule for the House week.]] Well, I'll take five minutes until 14.05. [[Screams of dissent in the hall. Other Members are coming to the hall for the applause of their colleagues.]] So there's no need for us to have enough. So I'm going to repeat the proposal for those of you who didn't show up until now. I propose that we remove any unnegotiated points, i.e. any remaining ones, from the agenda of this meeting. I think everyone knows what we're going to vote on. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the 302 vote, there are 72 Members and Members, for 61, against 5. The motion was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that we have eliminated all points on the agenda of this meeting and that I am therefore done discussing this meeting. Next time I'll see you on Tuesday, when the next emergency meeting is called, I think it's the 50th second.
