ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-003-317.u1	317. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Agreement establishing the EU International Foundation - LAC signed in Brussels on 7 November 2018 /German press 341/ - second reading Once again, for the apologized Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček is responsible for the government by introducing this proposal to Deputy Prime Minister Karel Havlíček. Mr. Vice-President of the Government of Havlíček once again, please mention this point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-003-317.u2	I'm sorry, I had it switched. Mr President, once again, honourable Members, the Government of the Czech Republic has submitted to Parliament of the Czech Republic an agreement to ratify the EU-LAC Agreement establishing an international foundation. After the approval of the College of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the agreement was properly passed through inter-ministerial commentary proceedings and was approved by the Government of the Czech Republic, namely its resolution 454, already on 10 July 2018. In accordance with this resolution, the agreement was subsequently signed in Brussels on 7 November 2018 by the Ambassador and Permanent Representative of the Czech Republic to the European Union, thereby joining 57 other signatories from both regions as the last country of the European Union. The idea of establishing this foundation was already established at the 6th summit of the countries of the European Union and the Community of the Latin American and Caribbean States in Madrid in May 2010, with the main objective of the Foundation's existence to contribute to strengthening partnership, mutual knowledge and understanding between the two regions. The Foundation is based in Hamburg. At first, it existed as an entity established in accordance with German civil law, so that it would then, at the request of the Member States, turn into an international organisation. Its founding agreement, which the Government is now submitting to Parliament, has been opened for signature 26. 10th year 2016. The activities of the Foundation consist in the implementation of projects aimed at deepening the links between the two regions, i.e. between the countries of the European Union and Latin America and the Caribbean. It primarily helps to establish contacts between trade, cultural, social and social organisations and supports contacts between civil society, such as higher education, youth, cooperation and the like. It also creates a database of contacts between universities, scientific centres and also between smaller and medium-sized companies. The Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic granted the ratification agreement already on 31 January last year and, following the first reading in the Chamber of Deputies, recommended that it also be awarded on 22 February of the previous year by the Foreign Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. At the same time, the required number of ratifications was fulfilled in February 2019, i.e. at least eight Member States from the European Union, including Germany, for example, and eight other countries. The Agreement establishing an international foundation consists of a total of 30 articles setting out the objectives of the Foundation, the rules, guidelines and so on. The membership of the Foundation is not linked to any one-off or regular financial commitment having an impact on the state budget. Deposits are voluntary, the Foundation can use resources obtained through various external financing and so on. At this point, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not consider it necessary to contribute financially to the operation of the Foundation. The Government has agreed to sign this agreement because the Czech Republic has an eminent interest in developing relations with Latin America, including in terms of politics, diversification of trade relations, with emphasis on partners outside the European Union and so on. It is also possible to count undoubtedly on the added value stemming from the fact that our country will not be a party to events, and the European Union as a whole is showing very good results towards the Latin American and Caribbean region. I believe, honourable Members, that on the basis of all this, you will support the development of the Czech Republic's links with this perspective region - I repeat, it is Latin America and the Caribbean - and you will agree to ratification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-003-317.u3	I thank the Vice-President of the Government. The rapporteur of the Foreign Committee in this case is President Vít Rakušan. We have a replacement, please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-003-317.u4	Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-003-317.u5	I am still sorry, it is the House press to make this sound on the screen record, 341/1, which we have at our disposal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-003-317.u6	Well, thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. The activities of the Foundation consist in the implementation of projects aimed at deepening links between the two regions, i.e. the European Union and Latin America and the Caribbean. It is an instrument for strengthening bi-regional partnerships and contributes to the implementation of many chapters of the EU-LAC Action Plan and the EU-LAC Foundation. Primarily, it helps to establish contacts between organisations in the business, cultural and social fields. It supports contacts between civil society, for example, in the field of higher education or youth. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic is in favour of joining the signing of the Agreement, as the Czech Republic has an interest in developing relations with Latin America, inter alia, with regard to the policy of diversification of trade relations with an emphasis on partners outside the European Union. Signature The EU-LAC international foundation agreements do not bear any negatives, but it is possible to count on added value stemming from the fact that the Czech Republic will not be a party to the events that the European Union as a whole has shown against Latin America and the Caribbean. The Foreign Committee addressed this at its 26th meeting on 21 February 2019 and adopted the following resolution on the Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the EU-LAC International Foundation, signed in Brussels on 7 November 2018, by the House press 341. Following the justification of Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Aleš Chmelař, Mr Mgr's intelligence report. Vít Rakušan, after the debate of the Foreign Committee 1. Recommends the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the Agreement establishing the EU-LAC International Foundation signed in Brussels on 7 November 2018; 2. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; 3. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of this government proposal at the Foreign Committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-22-ps2017-062-03-003-317.u7	Thank you. Member Bžoch will take the role of rapporteur. And I'm opening up a debate. I don't have anyone registered or registered for the debate. I'm done with the conversation. There's no interest in final words. We will take the vote. If no one asks, I will not read the motion for a resolution again. We heard it from the rapporteur, we know what we are going to vote on. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 121, registered 88 Members, for 82, against no one. The motion was accepted. Thank you to the rapporteur, I am ending the debate on this point. The next item is
