ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-013-055.u1	55. Government bill on the implementation of special regimes in the field of foreign trade / House print 660/ - first reading I'm opening it. Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. Please take the floor. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-013-055.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will go from chemistry to foreign trade. The bill adapts, i.e. the adaptation law, the applicable Union regulations, namely the regulation on so-called conflict minerals. It is also adapted to the Council's procedure on protection against the effects of legislation adopted by a third country which is applied outside its territory. It is a so-called blocking regulation, that is, everything about foreign trade. Those procedures represent a specific Union regulation in the context of foreign trade, and since similar special schemes have not yet been implemented into the Czech legal system, it has been chosen to go the way of a completely new legislation. If other similar special schemes are adopted at European Union level in the future, the law can also serve to implement them into the Czech rule of law. What is it, then? The Convention on Conflict Minerals established a Union system for appropriate care in the supply chain in order to limit the possibilities of financing of armed groups and security forces to participate in the trade in tin, namely lead, tungsten, their ores, and thus, of course, the areas affected by the conflict - that is important to emphasise. It lays down due diligence obligations in the supply chain, it is simply a matter of protection. The blocking regulation is intended to avert the negative effect of the so-called extraterritorial application of third-country legal acts. The fundamental point is that the third countries will first be named exhaustively, in an annex to the so-called economic operators of the European Union, and they will prohibit certain economic operators of the European Union from complying with this legislation. This is mainly about the so-called United States legislation on restrictions in trade, namely Cuba, Iran and Libya. Therefore, this blocking device will allow those European Union economic operators to receive compensation for the damage that could arise as a result of the application of those legislation and thus the effect of the decisions of third-country courts is abolished. It is therefore beneficial for European bodies, or more favourable, and thus eliminates in part the risk that it may cause them to do so within the framework of, for example, the United States, which have taxatically defined certain rules with these countries, that it does not touch them. The aim of this Regulation is to mitigate the effects, clearly, of American sanctions on the interests of the European Union. From our point of view, this is a minimalist adaptation to the law of the European Union, which also determines the authorities of the state administration of the Czech Republic, which are then responsible for ensuring the implementation of both of these regulations, as well as the draft law lays down rules, remedies and administrative penalties in the form of fines for breach of the blocking regulation. Since the draft law contains such an adjustment that needs to be adopted for proper adaptation of the Czech legal order, an exception was therefore granted to the President of the Legislative Council from carrying out an assessment of the effects of RIA regulation. All the comments in the interreort were properly settled, the material could have been submitted to the government without conflict. I believe that the law will contribute to informing society, as well as consumers, about the issue of responsible raw materials acquisition, and therefore that it will manage to eliminate any negative effects of certain legal acts of third countries on the bodies of the European Union, thus the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-013-055.u3	I also thank and see Mr Dolínek, who is the rapporteur for first reading, so I ask him to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-013-055.u4	Hello. I'm sorry. I'm a little winded. I'm running away from a meeting. I would like to say that the Minister has quite clearly described the wording of the law, with the fact that the law actually responds to... thank you. [[He's breathtaking.]] [[Cheer up in the hall.]] By actually responding to international conditions and international situations, at this point, the law has not really been contradicted at any time and I do not see any problem, so I recommend that the law be directed to the committee for discussion. Thank you. . [[The cheers in the hall, the MPs are applauding.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-013-055.u5	I also thank and open a general debate which I do not have applications for at the moment. I'm asking the auditorium if anyone's joining the general debate. If this is not the case, I am also ending the general debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final words by the appellant or rapporteur. It's not like that. There have been no proposals to return or recast, so we will vote on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? It's not like that. So I'm opening the vote. I ask who is for the commandment to the Economic Committee. Who opposes the commandment of the Economic Committee? Thank you. In the 157 vote, 152 Members and Members are registered, for 133, against no one. So I'm saying that we ordered the motion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Someone - Mrs Černochová has a proposal for another committee. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-013-055.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. From the logic of the matter, where it is also some standard that has an impact, it can affect internal security, so I propose a committee on security and a committee on defence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-013-055.u7	Yes, so that's two proposals - the Security Committee and the Defence Committee. Does he have any other suggestions for another committee? I can't see, so let's move on to the vote. First, then, I am opening the vote on the Security Committee's commandment. Who's in? Who opposes the Security Committee's commandments or the Security Committee's more accurately? Thank you. In the vote number 158, 152 Members and Members are registered, for 67, against no one. This proposal has not been adopted. Mr. Mr. Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-013-055.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I think that, given the issues discussed, this law would also be useful for the foreign committee, because I have a feeling that it could be linked to the so-called. Magnitský laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-013-055.u9	Thank you, too. And if no one objects, we will include this committee in the vote. However, a motion had previously been made on the commandment of the Defence Committee. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the defense committee's commandment. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 159 vote, 152 Members and Members are enrolled, for 61, against no one, but the proposal has not been accepted. And now for the final proposal. Is there an application for a check-out? [[Yes.]] I'll check you all out. Please sign up again with your cards, and when the number of entries is settled, we will vote on the command of the Foreign Committee to discuss it as the next committee. Looks like our numbers are stable. I am opening the vote and asking who is for the commandment of the Committee to be foreign. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 160 vote, 137 Members and Members, for 77, against no one, so this proposal was adopted. So I'm saying that we ordered the proposal to the Foreign Committee as the next committee. The other proposals that we should be voting on at the moment have not been heard, so I am ending the discussion of this press at first reading, and I am ending this point as well. Thank you, draftsman, thank you, rapporteur. And let's move on to the point.
