ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 40th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. I just checked you out, and I'm gonna ask you to sign up, and if necessary, as Mr Bartoš, who votes with card 15, they're gonna report a replacement card. I declare that excuses for today's meeting are: Hana Aulická Jírovcová - personal reasons, Jiří Běhounek - health reasons, Marek Benda - family Karel, Jan Birke - work reasons, Stanislav Blaha - work reasons, Jan Čižinský - personal reasons, František Elfmark from 12 hours - personal reasons, Jan Farský from 12.00 to 14.00 - family reasons, Radim Fiala - health reasons, Eva Fialová - health reasons, Alena Gajdůškovášková - foreign travel, Petr Gazdík - medical reasons, Jaroslav Holík - Petr Pávek, Monika Jarošová - health reasons, Miroslav Kalousek from 10 to 14 hours - Petr Vrána, Jiří Kobza - family reasons, Jaroslav Karla - family reasons - health Pour - health Valenta, Jan Řehounek - foreign trip, Jana Levová - family Jiří - personal reasons, Patrik Necher - health reasons, Ivana Nevludová - health Nacher, Ladidová - health Petr, Třešňák Ok Okštěštěštěštěšt - Zbyněk Rostislav - family Vyzula - health reasons - health Onderka - health - health Milan, Ránek - health Vlastimil - Válek Okleštěk - health Ladislav, Ránek Vdka Vk Vk - reasons, Czech Republic - reasons, Czech Republic The members of the government apologize: Andrej Babiš - working reasons, Marie Benešová - foreign travel, Jan Hamáček - personal reasons, Karel Havlíček - working reasons, Jana Maláčová - working reasons, Lubomír Metnar - working reasons, Tomáš Petříček - working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons, Alena Schillerová - working reasons, Miroslav Toman - working reasons, Lubomír Zaorálek - working reasons. Mr Marek Výborný from 9 a.m. to the end of the day for family reasons. Given that we do not have any points from the third reading block today, for which legal deadlines would be fulfilled, we will address the next points from the block the first reading laws. I'm asking if there's anyone here who would like to propose a change to the approved agenda. I don't see anyone, so we'll continue with the approved show. First I open point 58, which has been interrupted 29. 1. This is about
