ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-002-002.u1	2. Jana Krutáková, Jan Farský, Věra Kovářová, Vít Rakušan, Petr Gazdík and Petr Pávek's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 254/2001 Coll., on Waters and on Amendments to Certain Acts (Water Law), as amended /German Press 680/ - First Reading The Government's position was delivered as House Press 680/1. I ask that the proposal put forward as an applicant by Mrs Jana Krutáková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-002-002.u2	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, Members of the movement Mayors and Independents submit a proposal for an amendment to the Water Act No. 254/2001 Coll., as amended. This proposal aims to promote the use of precipitation waters, as the irrigation of the land through the rainbow is not sufficiently regulated and creates legal uncertainty. Unfortunately, water is dwindling and watering high-quality drinking surface water or groundwater is a luxury that we can no longer afford. The current legal situation, however, does not support the desired use of precipitation water by giving priority to precipitation water, thereby increasing the pressures and requirements for the use of other primary water sources. The concept of protection against drought consequences is counting on this - and I quote: "Clean waste water needs to be treated as raw material and recycled. However, the necessary legislative instruments are still missing to allow the reuse of purified waste water or grey water. There is a need to establish legitimate procedures in accordance with the legislative conditions that the public administration could use in practice. The aim of the measure is to set up legislative conditions for the recovery of waste water while ensuring that, after cleaning, they do not contain undesirable pollution in particular by priority substances - micropollutants.' So many quotes from the concept. We therefore propose to amend the relevant provisions of the Water Act which govern requirements for constructions with regard to the treatment of precipitation water. It is necessary to eliminate existing unjustified differences in waste water disposal requirements for various types of constructions, thereby helping to resolve the type of disposal in solitary buildings; the conditions for the use of precipitation and waste water for re-use and re-use; the conditions for discharge of waste water arising as a product of human metabolism into groundwater through soil layers. The aim of the proposal is therefore to clarify the hierarchy of precipitation water management, to prioritize the accumulation of precipitation water and its subsequent use. The accumulation of precipitation waters has the following advantages compared to their infiltration into the soil: the possibility of using water for irrigation or other agricultural or non-agricultural purposes, maintaining water at the point of origin and, in particular, reducing water consumption. So much to justify our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-002-002.u3	I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Karel Tureček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-002-002.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I will not represent the proposal presented by the petitioner. I would like to stress that, as rapporteur, I agree with the Government's position, where, for example, in the case of preferential accumulation, it is possible to say that water management is already comprehensively regulated in the Government's draft law, which we discussed a few moments ago at second reading. Furthermore, for example, that the use of precipitation water for a collide does not need a water permit. This provision may be considered redundant. The use of precipitation water is considered to be a general treatment of surface water and therefore does not require the authorisation of a water authority. Furthermore, the specification of waste water for use is inappropriate because these waters are waste water from the definition and when used on irrigation there is a risk of leaking into groundwater, which is the least suitable way to discharge waste water. I therefore propose that this House press be rejected at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-002-002.u5	Yes, I made a note. I am now opening a general debate where I have one application with priority rights, and this is Minister Richard Brabec, and Mr Václav Klaus will also be prepared. Mr. Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-002-002.u6	Thank you for the floor. I would like to follow up on the rapporteur and say that, in that first part, the petitioners are actually breaking into an already wide open door. Because not only is it in the water law, i.e. clear preferences in the vacuum, fumes, accumulation and only last row of draining of precipitation water into the sewerage, here we completely agree, but there's no point stressing it again. Because we may have followed the petitioners about a week ago, and it was with the Association of Chance for Buildings and with several developers that we presented eight points, how to better hold water in the municipalities. And it was clearly said that the combination of water law, as we discussed in the second reading a while ago, and the changes to the specific decrees of the Ministry for Regional Development - and with the MMR we are on the table and we are working on these decrees because they concern the construction law, everything should be valid and the effectiveness of the water law, so hopefully from 1 January next year at the latest - so it is quite sufficient that there is motivation for new buildings. And that is for private new buildings, or of course for various development projects, i.e. apartment buildings, or commercial premises, so that there are clear motivations and preferences for the use of precipitation water by accumulation, insaking, fumes, and only if it is not possible, so in the last row, I'm just taking them to the sewer system. That is also the answer to Mr Bendl or to Mr Munzar. Because, of course, it's said that there are, of course, possibilities or variants where it's not technically possible or where it's just not bearable. From the point of view of the use of grey water or the general waste water, I'm just referring here to the fact that at the moment with the Ministry of Health - and for understandable reasons it delayed covid, because, I guess you've noticed that there was, of course, covid in the waste water, and there was a need, and of course, there is also a need to resolve this issue, which means the use of grey water. Today we have the first, very specific residential development projects using grey water. And with the Ministry of Health, we are currently preparing parameters for utility water, which is really in the Gesture of the Ministry of Health, especially in terms of the quality of the water, so that during the next year we can implement it within a separate project. And we are already working with individual health authorities today not to brake specific housing projects, where gray water is used, for example for flushing toilets. This means that I believe that the existing legislation is sufficient, and if we still adapt the sub-legal standards, namely specific decrees, we will certainly be able to favour the clear use of grey water for those purposes, as the appellants want it to be, but for the current legislative solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-002-002.u7	Mr Václav Klaus will now appear. I'll read one apology. From 12.30 to the end of the day, Mrs Olga Richterová apologizes for working reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-002-002.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the diseases at the Magistrate, I'm going to perform again in a mask. I'm going to do this kind of breathing exercise. But I'd like to dedicate my appearance to water and drought to populism. I don't always report to the debate to correct every stupidity, 'cause I'd get on your nerves, that would be like 60 times a day. But I can't help but observe a significantly higher number of things in the last few days, and that's the reaction to some populist talk and something that people like to hear. Yesterday, in the negotiations on waste, Mrs Balcarová here said total nonsense about running out of fossil resources. That's bullshit that the Roman club defended when I was born. Since then, there haven't been any food, no fossil resources, oil reserves are higher than in 1969, the Communists have also been happy to hear it, and they've always written to me on the Pioneer Road that gas cars are gonna end and we're gonna fly some bubbles through the scientific revolution, that's what they call it. In the meantime, I've become an honorable grey-haired bastard, but I'm still going to the pump, I'm gonna grab it, I'm gonna turn the key, and it hasn't changed much. Oil reserves are just fluctuating to the price, so when the price is rising, oil reserves are growing, because it's worth more looking for for all the investors, and when it goes down like this, it's definitely going back to a relative decline. That humanity will one day switch from petrol and coal engines to something else, that is clear, but the reasons will be purely economic. Neither did the horse coaster by running out of horses, but by making the engines and internal combustion engines more economically advantageous. For example, the gas is always cheaper. When I was that little boy, he really went to a cottage once a week, a crowded family in one car, all sorts of stuff came along, but that daddy would drive to work in a car was out of the question because the gas was much more expensive. I'm gonna say one more thing. Speaking of technology, oddly enough, steam engines were pretty effective. When I was talking about the cottage, there was an electric locomotive going to Benešov, but then there was no electricity, I don't know if it's today, I guess, and then there was a steam locomotive, so it was waiting for about a quarter of an hour in Benešov before it got too far. Strangely enough, the time of departure has been the same since 1936. Grandpa used to go to the same cottage, but that would be about the Ministry of Transport. I don't want to turn it off. [[Laughs among some Members.]] But what's interesting is that the steam wasn't technologically more inefficient than those motor trains that run now or electric, but it was decided that it was a lot more laborious, that someone had to clean up the locomotive, wipe out it, it had to have a heater, another person, an hour in advance they had to heat it up so that the locomotive would go off, and then it was so expensive, and thanks to that, of course, even in the inefficientness of the communism, it had to go on the electric trains and other trains. So much for what I heard here yesterday. We'll have the chickens here tomorrow for a change. I am very excited about this debate because some of my colleagues from ODS, when I was attacked here, when I wanted to protect Czech farmers, they were cursing here with such right-wingness that there must be no bureaucracy, that is a major evil! But the chickens are popular, so tomorrow, with some banners here, Czech poultrymen will be destroyed, and bureaucracy will be crazy and eggs will be brought here from cage farms from Poland and trams. But let's save the debate for tomorrow, the debate. Now let's get out of here. I will now speak to you not as an MP, but as a graduate of the Faculty of Science of Charles University, who studied the subject, I have a test from Professor Kastner and Professor Janský. I didn't do alcohol or entertainment or cycling last night, but I did study hydrological yearbooks in the Czech Republic. And I have to say that it is dry in the Czech Republic - I don't bagate it at all, I reject all the fun that it is raining a lot today, so to make excuses for it, that is obviously childish. But on the other hand, we've had several similar dry periods since I was born. In 1969, 1971, 1972, 1973, we had a similar value of precipitation. And the drought, of course, has to do with collisions. They fall either in the form of rain or in the form of snow, the fumes are still very important because part of the water runs away, which is called the drain coefficient, the part evaporates and the tiny part somehow balances the groundwater level. So it's an educational performance tonight. Perhaps most of you would be surprised, my students used to be, that much more precipitation is in the summer, although the feeling of drought and real drought is much higher in the summer, but that is because there is much higher fumes. But to end it. We had a three-year period, which was significantly colliding subnormal, even those communists wanted to respond to it by building some dams, etc., but then again came a period that was significantly above normal. I don't want to tire of the whole 50-year table here, but we had a very dry year 2018, so it wasn't the worst comparison, for example. The year 2003 was even drier, and unfortunately, it followed the year 2019, which was also subnormal. And then we had two months here, namely January and April, which were also very minimal in collisions, and that, of course, was somehow the drought. Since then, however, the rainfall in May was already above average, June is also above average. And I'm going to mention the scientific fact that the drought is either going to be bigger than it was, or it's going to be exactly the same, or it's going to be smaller, or there's not going to be any drought at all. That's a pure fact. It is even possible that it will rain forty days and there will be a flood, surely colleagues from the people's side will agree with me that it can happen too. [[There's laughter in the room.]] So what we're talking about here is that in all the polls now it's coming out that people are worried about the drought, that it really was, it's been dry years, and every politician wants to react to it how he's going to deal with it. I think, with all due respect to Mr Brabco and the opposition here, the pressure below the Bay of Biscay has a transition across our territory, it doesn't affect either of you. We can talk about some things, such as the fact that there were politicians who wanted free-eating crusts in Sumava, and there, of course, in the smaller conditions, there can be a change in the microclimate, because the grown forest can keep the temperature of 15 degrees even in the summer days, whereas when there is a wasteland with bare trees, there is 40. And that changes. [[unintelligible]] So just give the debate back - I get it, you're doing politics, you want to show yourself to the voters. But when we look at the data, there's absolutely no indication that the time of those dry or wet years should now somehow be beyond what we've experienced several times in our lives. Here, of course, either what I said would happen that maybe July will be subnormal again, and then the situation will escalate and you'll make fun of me on social networks, but if it rains like it did in June, etc., then maybe in two years we'll be dealing with wetland in the Czech Republic and wetland drying, because the citizens will be bothered by mosquitoes and politicians will be dealing with it, because it will be a big topic, sometimes on some regions. So it's perfectly possible. Well, I just wanted to make a brief comment. Otherwise, meaningful measures like water retention in the countryside, a little concern for the ponds that Mr. Krčín founded for us centuries ago. By the way, there's no such thing - when I hear this 500-year dry talk, there's no data from 1500 on the number of rainfalls. The oldest data is the Žerotin estate, sometimes 1600 something, and the chronicler only wrote it for 23 years. So it's a purely populist debate, everyone here has said something about it, so excuse me for saying a few words to myself before lunch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-002-002.u9	So I will now look around to see if anyone else is reporting to the general debate. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Mrs Krutáková is not interested, Mr Tureček - are you interested in the final word? You're not interested. So we're going to vote on the motion, I'm going to go on. [[Knocking cards in the desks as an application for check-out.]] Yeah? Now all of you - well you don't have to knock over. [[There's a knock again.]] [[Laughs in the hall.]] 'Cause I just squeezed a gong with one hand, so I don't have... [[Ambassador Faltynek apologizes for being him.]] Sure. I can't be here... I only have two hands. So I can hear you. So I've already checked you out, please log in with your voting cards again. [[With a smile.]] But you have the right to knock, so again... So I checked you all out, I gonged. Mr Tureček proposed to reject the proposal. So I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 3, 97 Members signed in, for 56, against 19. The motion to dismiss has been accepted. This concludes the discussion of this press. We have 12.59, so I guess I won't open another press. It's already 13 o'clock. I interrupt the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, see you at 14.30 and have a good taste.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-002-002.u10	The honourable Member, honourable Members, is 14.30, so we will continue. Before we open the point, I'll introduce you to my apologies. Mrs Válková apologises from 14:30 to 19:00, i.e. until the end of the day, for reasons of work. Mr Bělobrádek apologizes for this afternoon's meeting for work reasons. The Member and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes until the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Výborný apologies from 14:00 to 15:30 for working reasons. Mr Vyzula apologizes from 14.30 to midnight for family reasons. Mr Schiller apologises from 14:30 to 21:00 for business reasons. Vice-President of the House Petr Fiala apologizes between 14.30 and 3/4 to midnight for work reasons. Mr Beitl apologizes for this afternoon's meeting until the end of the day for working reasons. And Mr Michálek apologizes today between 14.30 and 15.30 for work reasons. I ask for peace, and I believe that Mr. Černohorský wants to step in. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-002-002.u11	Mr President, I would like to get back to the vote on the last item, that was item 2, House Press 680. I have been going through the audio recording and, in this case, I have to question the President's procedure, because the rapporteur said very strongly in his introductory words that he wanted to put to the vote on rejection, but in a general debate in which he has to propose this under Paragraph 63 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 1, he didn't bring this. This means that we have voted on something that has not been raised at all in the general debate. So I would question the President's procedure in this case, and if this passes, which, of course, is a condition for us to vote on it, that is by law, in which case the rapporteur will have to repeat this at second reading, because the only thing we can vote on is which guarantee committee we will then place it in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-18-ps2017-051-01-002-002.u12	Thank you. I will not fully agree with the interpretation, but it is true that the motion to reject must be made in the debate, which was not. So here we have the question of the previous vote, and I would like to put it to a vote on this objection. There's an application for a check-out, and I'll have you all checked out. Please sign up again with your voting cards and then we will vote on the objection to the previous vote, which was vote number 3 by which we rejected the previous press. I think they're all logged in, so I'm taking the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against the objection? Thank you. There are 98 Members and Members in voting number 4, for 85, against 2. I note that the objection has been accepted, so the previous vote on rejection has not been valid and can therefore not be repeated. I have one more apology, Mr Hájek apologizes between 16 and 18 o'clock for work reasons. Now we're back at the previous point, which is the point.
