ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-001-448.u1	448. Proposal for the action of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the framework of the fight against terrorism in Mali, Niger and Chad /German press 751/ Before I begin it, I will read new apologies to the President of the House, Mrs Levová, who apologizes for today and for the 30th, and for health reasons, today from 15.45 Mr Jiří Bláha apologizes, from 16 o'clock Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček and the Minister of Health apologizes from 17 o'clock to the end of today's meeting. We have the organizational matters resolved and we can therefore begin to discuss this, point 448, which I have already presented. It is a proposal for the action of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the fight against terrorism in Mali, Niger and Chad, according to the House press 751. Minister Lubomír Metnar and Minister Tomáš Petříček will present the proposal. With a factual remark, Vice-President of the KSČM Leo Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-001-448.u2	Thank you for the floor. I'm very sorry, but I don't think the order of points is entirely ideal. We first broadcast soldiers, and then we adjust the legal framework in which they could work. So what if the legal framework doesn't pass? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-001-448.u3	That is a nice point, Mr Vice-President, but - the rapporteur is here now or as Vice-President of ODS Jana Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-001-448.u4	Thank you. I don't think Mr. Luzar's having the best day of his life today. If it's the other way around, it doesn't solve anything, because those contracts are voted in two readings, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-001-448.u5	That, I think, is an explanation among fellow Members. But I have to stick to how we voted for the agenda, so there is no other choice but to gradually give the floor to Secretary of Defense Lubomír Metnar, then to Secretary of State Tomáš Petříček, before he leaves the meeting. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-001-448.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you a proposal on the action of the Ministry of Defence's forces and resources in the fight against terrorism in Mali, Niger and Chad, which was approved by the Government on 27 January this year and the Senate on 12 August also on the same year. The object of the proposal is the operation of forces and means of the defence department in the fight against terrorism in Mali, Niger and Chad in the number of up to 60 persons from the date of approval of the proposal by Parliament of the Czech Republic and until 31 December 2022. Coalition task force of European countries Takuba consists of special and supportive forces and is part of the French counterterrorism operation Barkhane. The aim is to achieve the independence of the Malian troops in planning and conducting counter-terrorism operations, as we do in Afghanistan. Malian troops will thus be able to prevent the return of terrorist groups and help restore local government and government functions in the territories. The task of Takuba Group is to provide advice and assistance to units of partner Malian battalion and their accompaniment to actions against terrorists. The support of partner Malian troops will be provided by Czech soldiers along with French soldiers. Takub's task force started its operation in July this year, now the French-Estonian unit is deployed, followed by the Czech-French unit. Another country will be involved in the next year. Takuba Group operates in the east of Mali at the border with Niger. Partial presence in Niger will take place in connection with logistical transports and cross-border operations in pursuit of terrorist groups. In Chad, we will only be individuals occupying the seats of Operation Barkhane's headquarters. The sending and operation of our forces will be carried out on the basis of the official consent of the states concerned. As far as financial costs are concerned, at least 598 million are estimated for the entire duration of the mission and will be covered from the Ministry of Defence budget chapter. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the event of your consent, we will contribute to an operation that directly concerns our security and which will help to stabilise the area from which a significant number of illegal migrants are flowing into Europe. Participation in the operation is therefore in the direct interest of our security and at the same time confirms our country's commitment to combating terrorism, which, in addition to the migration issue, fills one of the many points of the government's programming declaration. Thank you for your attention and any support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-001-448.u7	I thank the Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar and now ask for the floor of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček to complete the opening word for the Government of the Czech Republic. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-001-448.u8	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to begin by expressing my appreciation for the approach of my colleagues from the Ministry of Defence, with whom my department has worked very closely to prepare the proposal, and I would like to say that it has worked constructively. I would like to add to my colleague, Metnar, a foreign political view of the action of our forces in the Sahel. Firstly, the active participation of the Czech Republic in ensuring international security and stability is a strategic security concern of our country. Our own security cannot be separated from the international environment in which we all move. The proposed participation of the Czech Republic in the coalition group Takuba in the fight against terrorism in Mali, Niger and Chad is certainly a step that meets both of these objectives. [[16.10 hours]] Firstly, the aim is to ensure, above all, the strengthening of its own security, as the operation of Barkhane, which also includes the Takuba Special Group, helps to stabilise the entire Sahel region. This area, as my colleague Metnar has already said, is not only a source of illegal migration, but also an area where radicalisation, terrorism, other serious illegal activities and local conflicts increase, and is therefore a strategically important area for the Czech Republic, the European Union and, to an increasing extent, for the North Atlantic alliance. I would like to add that in recent years the stabilisation of the Sahel region has become a priority of our foreign policy for the Czech Republic. The Sahel lies in the immediate neighbourhood of our borders, the borders of the European Union, and the stability of this region has a direct and indirect impact on the security of the Czech Republic. At the same time, however, the stability of the Sahel is also crucial for our important partners in the wider Gulf region of Guinea. Of course, here and our contribution is to strengthen the security of countries such as Nigeria, Ghana or others, also with regard to the economic dimension of our relations with this area. By approving the deployment of units in the grouping Takuba's commitment to actively fighting terrorism will be re-confirmed, thus helping to ensure international security and stability. The prerequisite for sending our soldiers to this foreign mission is, of course, to ensure their proper legal status in all countries of their operation. This condition will be fulfilled after the national procedures in the Czech Republic have been completed, the necessary adoption of additional protocols between France and Mali and between France and Niger respectively. Mr President, honourable Members, I would also like to ask you to approve the mandate submitted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-001-448.u9	Thank you, Secretary of State. And before we go any further, three more apologies - Mr Dvořák, Mr Rozner and Mr Jelínek, from the negotiations today and Friday. This House Press has discussed the Defence Committee, whose resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 751/1, and I will now ask the committee chair and rapporteur Jana Černochová to inform us of the committee's deliberations and to present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-001-448.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the ministers have presented the content of the present material, the purpose of the mission and the degree of involvement of the Army of the Czech Republic. I would just like to sum up the discussion of this press in Parliament and, in particular, in the Committee on Defence. Once again, it is a stand-by vote, so I ask that all colleagues who have come here today to vote a hundred per cent remain and do not leave this hall, because then we will act in that format again 50 per cent. The Defence Committee has repeatedly discussed the involvement of our armed forces in Takuba's task force in the Barkhane operation, and first we have asked that the legal framework of our soldiers in all countries be settled before approving the participation of the Army of the Czech Republic in the mission, thereby ensuring legitimacy, their rights and obligations. This has happened and the Parliament of the Czech Republic has subsequently been submitted for ratification of the relevant treaty, which we will also discuss here, and which are already signed from the relevant country, which concerns the deployment of our soldiers. The material was submitted to us on 4 February 2020 after it was approved by the Government by Resolution 73 of 27 January 2020. The Committee on Defence has finally discussed the material on 23 October 2020 and adopted a resolution which is registered as House Press 751/1. We met with representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sometime in April before the committee adopted this resolution. Here I would also like to thank Minister Petříček for taking the time to join the Defence Committee, as well as the representatives of the Ministry of Defence, and for discussing one topic within this mission, which we believe should be the subject of discussions in any transmission of soldiers, and these are some economic benefits for the country that actually participates in some reconstruction, some assistance to other countries that are facing, therefore, within - as in this case - civil or other wars and conflicts. So here we have been as members of the Defence Committee, we have actually sat there at the level of both Parliament's chambers, both senators and Members of the Defence Committee, so we have been assured that both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence are thinking about these matters and that, of course, this will also be the subject of other diplomatic negotiations with representatives of these countries. [[There's noise in the room.]] Now, let me introduce you to the text of House Press resolution 751/1. Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening speech of the Minister of Defence Mgr Lubomír Metnar, President Mgr Jana Černochová and after the debate I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that: 1. Approves the action of the Ministry of Defence's forces and resources in the fight against terrorism in Mali, Niger and Chad, for the period from the date of approval by Parliament of the Czech Republic until 31 December 2022, in total up to 60 persons; 2. Calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of Deputies each year about the operation of the forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence's Department in the fight against terrorism in Mali, Niger and Chad, at the latest by 30 June of the following year, with the latest information being submitted on 30 June 2023; II. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. Instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. In a detailed debate in accordance with this resolution, I will recommend agreeing with this material, with the action of the Ministry of Defence's forces and resources in this mission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-001-448.u11	Thank you to the rapporteur. And I will require that attention from my colleagues, because the noise here is immense and we need to address this serious constitutional matter with full responsibility. I am launching a general debate in which Member Vích and Member Staněk are joined. Now, then, my colleague Radovan Vích. Also, before I give him my word, I will ask the House for peace and transfer of discussions on another subject outside the O.R. If anyone wants to apply to this subject, I will be happy to accept his application. Thank you. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-001-448.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to brief you on the opinion of the Freedom and Direct Democracy Parliamentary Press Group 751, here on the proposal for the action of the Ministry of Defence's forces and means in the fight against terrorism in Mali, Niger and Chad, the so-called task force of Takuba. Sending 60 of our soldiers on a mission In our opinion, Takuba to Mali, Niger and Chad is not a good idea. I'm asking what it's gonna bring us. [[16.20 hours]] Takuba's task force complements the Barkhane operation, conducted by the Francouz in several countries on the southern outskirts of the Sahara since 2013. The official task is to strengthen Mali and Niger's armies in the border region of Liptako, where the fighters of the Islamic State from Sahara are infiltrating. The other parties that are fighting, but there may be more, like Tuareg and others. The connection to Mali and Niger is being prepared to the agreements that France has with them, which are also the following points in the Chamber of Deputies' negotiations. Operation Barkhane and the Takuba mission do not have a clear mandate from the UN Security Council. Moreover, in the programme statement of the current government of the Czech Republic, there is an obligation to participate in peace and training missions and other NATO activities, but in the case of Takuba it is a combat mission. The Takuba mission is to take part in ten European countries, plus France. For example, Norway will not send its troops after all. There was no support for this in their parliament. Other European states with involvement are quite delayed at the moment. In addition to hundreds of Estonian and French soldiers already operating there, only three Belgian soldiers joined the Takuba Group this year. A large Swedish unit of 150 soldiers is not to join until January, and this will still be subject to approval. This is mainly because a military coup recently took place in Mali. The president who invited Western troops is no longer in power, but a military junta that plans to rule for at least a year and a half, and then maybe there will be elections. At the same time, there is an intensive campaign against Western soldiers in Mali. And in this troubled situation, should we send more of our soldiers? Plus on a combat mission where they're at great risk of life. Francouz soldiers have already died in Operation Barkhane. I don't think we should send any more of our troops to Mali. In addition, sending these soldiers should cost nearly 600 million crowns. Finally, let me say that there are many reasons why we should not be involved in African affairs, and there are few reasons why we should do so. Therefore, we cannot support the sending of our soldiers as an SPD MP to the Tubub task force in the fight against terrorism in Mali, Niger and Chad. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-001-448.u13	I thank Mr Vích. Mr Antonín Staněk now. Leo Luzar will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-001-448.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me express my opinion to the Czech Party's Social Democratic Club and support the joint proposal by the Ministers of Defence and Foreign Affairs. This proposal is in line with the government strategy of the Czech Republic to support the stabilisation and development of Sahel countries for the period 2018 to 2021. There are strong reasons behind the long-term involvement of the Czech Republic in the Sahel. The greater security of the Sahel, including Mali, Niger and Chad, where our soldiers should operate, means greater security for Europe, including our Czech Republic. This is a failing region where a multidimensional crisis occurs, where unsatisfactory socio-economic conditions and many other multipliers are the cause of an increase in radicalisation, terrorism, illegal activities, especially illegal migration and local conflicts. All this speaks for the participation of the Czech Republic in Takuba. Let me remind you that the Czech Republic in Sahel and Mali operates comprehensively. Since 2013, we have been involved in the EUTM training mission, where with our overall military presence of 114 people, we have been taking one of the first places in the long term. The importance of our contribution has been strengthened by taking command of the mission for seven months from 12 June 2020. The Czech Republic actively supports the capacity building of the G5 Sahel Joint Forces and Mali Armed Forces in the form of financial donations of over CZK 40 million, necessary for their more effective fight against terrorism. In addition to a specific contribution to addressing security threats, the Czech Republic places emphasis on the comprehensive approach to crisis management in the Sahel, as well as on the area of humanitarian aid and development cooperation implemented under the programme of activities supporting the source and transit countries of migration in Africa from 2020 to 2022, which aims to contribute to the elimination of the underlying causes of migration and forced displacement at its origin. The Czech Republic fully supports the United Nations' efforts to stabilise the Sahel and is present in the United Nations mission MINUSMA in Mali, where we have been constantly contributing individuals to the command and intelligence structures of this mission since 2015. The importance of the Sahel for the Czech Republic is demonstrated by the opening of the representative office in Bamaku in autumn 2019. Within NATO, the Czech Republic supports the growing interest of the Alliance in the Sahel, where we see an opportunity to deepen NATO's cooperation - the European Union and the complementarity of security matters in the common neighbourhood. Let me also remind you that, in the context of close cooperation with international partners, the Czech Republic welcomed the formal establishment of a coalition for the Sahel and a partnership for security and stability in the Sahel on 12 June 2020 and, in view of the increasing engagement in the Sahel in both the security and humanitarian development areas, considers its involvement in the Sahel coalition to be taken for granted. Mr President, honourable Members, I ask you to approve the submitted material, which is fully in line with the Czech Republic's long-term priorities in the Sahel. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-001-448.u15	I thank Mr Antonín Staňek. Now, Mr Leo Luzar, the last member of the debate so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-001-448.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be involved in the debate for one simple reason, because I think we can make quite a big mistake if we do not understand what we are sending our soldiers into. I will also respond to the previous speaker who said at the outset that I don't know what I'm talking about when I connect these three points, that is, sending troops plus those international treaties that concern the fate of our soldiers, and that it doesn't really have anything to do with it. I think it's connected directly. And I'll try to justify it. The situation in Mali is complicated. That's what my previous speakers said. And it really is a region that is nationally quite strongly conflicted. And for many years under French influence, this region has experienced a turbulent period. I'm not going to get caught up in the bloody conflicts that the Francouz have been trying to calm down there all along. I will not involve Libya and other states that are also directly related to French action in this area. I stress French action. The African states wanted to take control and resolve this national problem, which is probably the main reason that is taking place in Mali, and they sent an AFISMA peace mission to prevent and calm the situation in Mali. This failed and the African mission, in a way, failed under the ambush of Islamists who invaded Mali. On this basis, the French military mission, the so-called Barkhane, began to operate, which took over this space militarily. Subsequently, only the UN Security Council came into this and created MINUSMA, which means a grouping to defend and protect territorial integrity and certainty to solve this problem. And here's a partially buried dog. Yes, the Czech army should operate under the mandate of the UN Security Council as part of this mission, which means security in Mali. Last year, this mandate was extended and this mission became one of the most dangerous UN missions since it became a combat mission. UN soldiers are to actively secure and fight in Mali. This is the first risk I would like to draw attention to in connection with this mission, so that we all realize that we are sending our troops into a combat mission. That's a big difference from Afghanistan. The U.N. is fighting in Mali. [[16.30 hours]] The problem that others are pointing out - and we think of it as not quite much, but it is related to the two treaties that will follow - is that while the UN mission is here MINUSMA, French soldiers still act as if in two contingents, and the relationship between direct French intervention in this area and French participation in UN forces is still not clarified internationally. In other words, under which command and under which activity these soldiers will now work if the French soldiers attack under the command of the Francouz for the interests of the Francouz and we will be for the interests of the UN. These are the unsolved things that have led to some other European Union countries that have been asked to participate, some caution in the involvement in this mission, because these relations are unclear. And the lack of clarity is just about the two contracts that will follow. I don't think I'm gonna be able to speak to them anymore, but let me say a few words to them. Those two international treaties extend the possibility that France, which has bilateral agreements with the two states involved in these treaties, tells these States: we have an international treaty with you to protect our soldiers and access our soldiers in your territory, but we are expanding it, that in our French army, soldiers of other states can operate, which we as the Francouz will invite. In short, I strongly paraphrase the wording of the two treaties. So I'm asking - our soldiers will be on the U.N. MINUSMA mission, then it would be okay and we don't have a problem with that. But if, according to these two contracts that will follow, they are part of a French intervention body that is outside of this UN regulation, then something is not quite right here. That we're dealing with a situation within our soldiers' relationships when they cross the border, I understand. But I wonder how legal relations between the French army operating outside the UN's mandate and the armies operating under the UN's mandate are resolved. This is a problem that has also shown up in the international community, when other states should or should not be involved, and I would also like this honourable House to realize the reach of its steps and dimensions, into which we introduce Czech soldiers and, through Czech soldiers, the whole Czech Republic in the context of the relationship in the war in Mali. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-001-448.u17	I thank Mr Leo Luzar. Now, Mr Jan Bartošek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-001-448.u18	Thank you for the floor. Just a short time for the KDU-ČSL club. KDU-ČSL supports sending soldiers on this mission for three reasons. Firstly, it is an active contribution of the Czech Republic in the fight against terrorism, secondly, it is an instrument to help stabilise the situation in Mali, whose territory is now used to move migrants from sub-Saharan Africa to Europe, so that is the contribution of the Czech Republic in the framework of anti-migration activities. Thirdly, it is essential that Europe and the Czech Republic take greater responsibility for stabilizing the troubled areas in their neighbourhood, because it is quite obvious that no one else will do it for us. This means that it is an active contribution of the Czech Republic in the fight against migration to Europe. To be clear, illegal migration to Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-001-448.u19	Thank you. Who's next in the debate? If I do not see anyone, I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words after the general debate. Mr. Secretary? Mr. Foreign Minister? The rapporteur? It's not like that. We can therefore open the debate in detail because there has been no proposal that we should vote on. And here the rapporteur is reporting in a detailed debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-001-448.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As I have announced in the general debate, I therefore propose that the House of Deputies approve the resolution recommended by the Committee on Defence, which I have delivered in the framework of my intelligence report, in order to agree to the action of the forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in this mission. The resolution would therefore be: it agrees with the action of the Ministry of Defence's forces and resources in the fight against terrorism in Mali, Niger and Chad, for the period from the date of approval by Parliament of the Czech Republic until 31 December 2020 in total up to 60 persons. There is also a request for the Government of the Czech Republic to inform the Chamber of Deputies each year about the operation of the forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the framework of the fight against terrorism in Mali, Niger and Chad, always by 30 June of the following year, with the latest information being submitted on 30 June 2023.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-062-05-001-448.u21	I thank the rapporteur for the motion for a resolution in a detailed debate. I'm asking who's still reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone. Before I finish the detailed debate, I state an apology to 27 and 30. 10. due to the illness of Mr Jiří Kobza. If no one really applies for a detailed debate, I am ending the detailed debate. I'm asking for final words. It's not like that. We can therefore proceed to the vote. I shall request that 101 votes be set for the approval of this resolution. At the same time, I will arrange for those who have respected the debate and discussed outside the O.R. to return to their seats in the hall. And once the number of entries is stabilised, we will decide on the motion for a resolution. I ask if anyone is of the opinion that the rapporteur should repeat the motion for a resolution. Not so, you all have 751/1 printing at your disposal. So we'll vote when you rejoin. [[to the opt-out request]] I've checked you out, I'm going to ask you for a new registration, please log in with your ID cards so we have an accurate presence on the vote. We will decide on the motion for a resolution, i.e. to agree to the action of the Czech Army forces and funds in Mali, in the vote number 173, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 173, from 133 in favour of 113, against 20. The motion was accepted. We will therefore vote on the second motion for a resolution and there is already a need for a normal, common over-the-half majority, and this is a request for the Government of the Czech Republic to inform about the operation of our soldiers in Mali. We will decide in the vote number 174, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 174, 134 for 131 Members present, against no one. This part of the resolution has also been approved. Thank you, Secretary of Defense, thank you, Secretary of State, rapporteur, and finish item 448. After discussing this point, I can say that the agreement of the Members' Clubs will be respected, which means that those Members who have come to vote on this point for the need to vote by an absolute majority of all Members can therefore be regarded as excused. [[16.40 hours]] The next item is the item number
