ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 65th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out, and I would like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 41 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on 13 November of this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I suggest we identify Jana Krutáková and Mrs Kateřina Valachová. [[Insufficient number of Members in the Chamber.]] I'll call the MPs because we don't have a deal. So I suggest we identify Jana Krutáková and Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see another suggestion, so we wait. [[Insufficient number of Members in the Chamber.]] We don't have a minister here, we don't even have a kvorum here, so -- wait a minute. [[It's a delay.]] I've done it several times, we need 67, we have 63, so we still have four MPs. [[Members come to the ballroom individually.]] Two more. We're still gonna get started. One more, there's 66. There, there's 67 of us. We're all so relieved. What would we do, anyway, wouldn't we? I shall repeat, then, I propose that we appoint a Member Jana Krutáková and a Member of Kateřina Valachová. There was no other suggestion. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number one, 69 Members signed up, for 68, against none. I note that we have appointed a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Jana Krutáková and a Member of Kateřina Valachová, as verifiers of the 65th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Because it's 65th and 69th. The Chamber of Deputies has been included in the draft laws in the third reading, the following must be done: First, we will vote in accordance with § 54 para. 4 Rules of Procedure on the inclusion of the House of Press 910 and the House of Press 886 on another day, Wednesdays and Fridays. Furthermore, we will vote in accordance with Section 95a of the Rules of Procedure on the allocation of other hours for their discussion, after 19 and 21 hours. At the same time, we propose, on the basis of the agreement of the Members' Clubs, that the Chamber of Deputies should act and vote on all proposals today after 19 o'clock and after 21 o'clock. Just pointing out that the 65th meeting includes the first reading of the bills. If there is no objection, we will vote on all proposals at once. [[There's no objection.]] So I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 2, 73 Members registered, for 64, against 1. The motion has been approved. The voting procedure therefore concerns the 65th and 69th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. And now, for 10 minutes, I'm interrupting the 65th meeting. Sorry. [[Response to the comment from the surroundings:]] No, that's for another reason. I am now interrupting the 65th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and we will continue the suspended 70th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and this is to ensure that the system is switched because we will continue now in another meeting. So 10 minutes, meet me here at 14.16.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-19-ps2017-065-01-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we will continue the interrupted 65th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I just checked you all out. I'm gonna ask you to sign in. We interrupted right at the beginning. We're in a phase where we're going to set up a 65th meeting. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. The approved programme may also not be extended. I will call again our colleagues from the lobby. [[Gonging and waiting for the incoming MPs.]] Very well, we've just become a quorum. [[19.10 hours]] We will vote on the approval of the 65th meeting. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 3, registered 85, for 83, versus 1. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the agenda has been approved. We will proceed to the first point that is
