ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u1	360. Government bill on replacement maintenance for the careless child and on amendment of certain related laws (Constitutional maintenance law) /German press 898/ - 3rd reading The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová has already taken her place at the rapporteur's table. And the rapporteur for the guarantee committee, which is the Committee on Social Policy, is Mrs Jana Pastuchová. I'll ask her to take her place, too. The motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 898/2, which was delivered on 27 October. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 898/3. [[Big noise in the hall. A microphone is still on at the rapporteur's desk and it can be heard how the plaintiff and the rapporteur are arguing.]] I ask the appellant if she is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. [[An application from the diaper.]] To the vote? [[Yes.]] Wait a minute. To the previous vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u2	I just wanted to report for the record that I voted in favour of the 313 vote, and I'm against high school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u3	Thank you. That was the only voice against the mind. Well, that's what we're supposed to do. The appellant wishes to speak before the debate is opened. I'll ask everyone to remain calm in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'll be very brief. It is a law that we have been discussing for 15 years, and there is no need to explain in length what it is. It is a law that will probably help 24,000 children a year, and it will also help one parent who is in a lifeless situation. They got into such a life situation because the other parent is irresponsible and decided not to care for his child or his children.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u5	Once again, for the third time today, I ask for peace in the hall. [[It's ringing with a bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please allow the Secretary to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u6	Thank you. So the first reason this law will address is that one of the parents bailed on his child, the second reason is that the other parent who's supposed to be getting alimony from that irresponsible parent can't get law enforcement. These are the two main reasons why the Act on supplementary maintenance arises. The thing that we are also promising from the approval of this law is that we will finally have a clear overview of how many children, how many parents are unenforceable in the event of non-payment of child support. At this point, unfortunately, we only work with estimates. As I mentioned, there are 24,000 children. I would also like to mention that Slovakia - Slovakia - has had a similar law since 2005. This means that when we started discussing alternative or backed-up maintenance in the Czech Republic, Slovakia introduced this law 15 years ago. I consider law enforcement extremely important and this area is dealt with by the House Press 899, which means replacement maintenance must never be self-effective. [[correct 898]] The key must be for society to cease to tolerate the fact that parents do not apply to their children and that these unpaid alimony payments start to be enforced after nonpayers. One last mention. Two amendments are tabled to the bill. I will give them a neutral position because, in principle, I agree with the substance of the amendments, I have proposed them myself, but I respect the coalition agreement. Let me conclude by saying that this law is about paying maintenance is normal. Parents are to be held responsible for their children and the state must begin to enforce it, or begin to address the fact that nonpayers can actually continue their irresponsibleness, and we must begin to enforce alimony and demand responsibility from parents. Therefore, I beg you to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u7	Thank you. I am opening up a debate on this point, to which I am the first Mrs GajdůGajdůšková to sign up at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u8	Mr President, gentlemen, ministers, Members of Parliament, it is probably no surprise to say that I am very much and very much in favour of approving this government bill on substitute maintenance. And I'm really glad that we got to the real approval, and I believe that it will be approved today. [[9.50 hours]] Social democracy strives to help children who are not lucky enough to grow up with their biological parents, and it is bad luck that one of their biological parents does not need to support them from afar financially, as the court requires us to resolve this by approving this bill. And one more point of view for the children. You know, those kids don't really care if it's designed in that law the way the opposition sees it, that replacement maintenance is actually another social benefit, or if it's designed the way it was in mine, in our social democratic parliamentary bill at the time about backed-up maintenance, where it was directed more so that it was really just an advance that a mandatory parent really had to pay and the state had to make sure he paid it. I think that from the point of view of the child, who is really suffering, and those children are suffering even more, those families simply have a problem, especially in today's situation, and I don't have to discuss it, we all know that, so at this point it is really important that we help the families of singles and singles and especially children of these families. That is why I am intercede for us to approve this bill as it is tabled, of course there are also amendments. And I say for myself that once it's approved, I will, of course, withdraw the original bill of parliament. I wish, above all, all children to be content to cope with the situation that today is. And I thank responsible parents for taking care of their children wherever fate takes them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u9	Thank you. Next up is the debate by Mrs Válková, Mr Klaus will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u10	Thank you. Dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, I am also speaking here this time as a Human Rights Commissioner, because the Committee - which is under the Human Rights Council - has prepared a number of initiatives for the protection of the rights of the child to respond to the current situation. And I will follow up here on what my previous speaker said, through you, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, that we have a large group of children who, thanks to the current state of society, mainly in the area of social and economic affairs, are in a pandemic situation where some families are not only economically and socially, but also technologically in such an abyss, and the differences between children that have access through modern telecommunications means to distance education and those that have no or no quality at all. And in this context, I think that every signal that these children, especially those where their parents struggle even more than ever, to provide basic needs, so I am very curious about the performances that will follow me, and I will listen very carefully to them - that we should welcome and support each such signal, because the situation is different than it was a year ago. And I'm afraid another will remain in the coming months, I hope not in the years. And those kids need help here as soon as possible. And I believe that the funds spent in this way will be used, among other things, to reduce the currently increasing difference between children from families. Secured, they soon may not be fully secured, especially the middle class will fight, however, has good prospects that they can do it when I read economic analysis. While those who are already - and may not be in a debt trap, but are at the limit of their options, they deserve our attention. And when that moment comes along that there's a person there to raise a child alone - and I know what I'm talking about because I experienced it from my own experience with my son, whom I raised, and I know that sometimes I wasn't well, I wasn't laughing, and if it wasn't for my parents, I wouldn't have made it that easy. So, of course, I support not only the proposal that the Minister has made here and which, I think, is a turning point. At the same time, it is a very good test of how Czech law and Czech justice, our independent justices, our helpers in this area, those who we pay well and certainly cannot complain about interfering with their work will show us how they can enforce the right to enforce the claims that the state has against the mandatory, in this case those for whom he has paid maintenance will recover. Why not give them the chance? Let them prove to us that they deserve the position they have in our republic in Czech society. That's an ideal case, and I don't want to be completely populist, because there's been a lot of criticism on their heads lately. We also see what is happening in Slovakia. So I think that here they could show us how important it is that we have justice, how consistently, quickly and unambiguously enforces from people who do not fulfill their basic obligation to pay maintenance, their obligations. So I wouldn't worry about it. If we do not accept this law, we are also making it clear that we do not trust the rule of law that we do not believe that we have bodies here capable of recovering claims from the state. Then what are we paying them for? So I don't really want to get into these emotional speeches, even though I'm doing it right now, but it's really been going on for a very long time. You know me, I'm rather conservative, you know that I was also opposed to abolishing the criminalization of the present - that is, the one that exists in the criminal code, not paying maintenance until these things are settled on that level of civil law. Please, if we approve this law, I am not in favour of not reopening it, but let us say a year, how the situation will develop and to what extent our courts will be able to recover those sums from the mandatory ones in their favour. I won't keep you. I think, clearly for the benefit of the children who want to do something right now, there's an optimal opportunity. And some excuses that we don't know how it's going to turn out, and why they're going to stand by now, because those kids can't defend themselves, and we're now giving them a tool that they obviously don't know about, but which can help them at least partially balance the differences between what the family has to offer that the economy has to do at this time, or the family, or an incomplete family that can't do it without our support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u11	Thank you. I have two factual points here. First, Mr Juchelka, then Mrs Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u12	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will just supplement my previous speaker, Mrs Válková, through Mr President, and I will just supplement this statistically. Why this is referred to as another social benefit is because the enforcement of law in the Czech Republic will be no different than in the surrounding states of the European Union. In Slovakia it is absolutely small, we can talk about independent justice, of course, and in Germany, where independent justice is taken for granted, it is 13 percent. So 13 percent will be recovered as part of the executions of this irresponsible parent. That is why it is sometimes referred to as another social benefit. I would just like to add that I believe that, statistically speaking, we will not go out of our way to enforce these executions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u13	Thank you. Mrs Valachová, a point of fact, Mrs Richterová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u14	I would like to support both the Minister of Labour and the previous speaker, Mrs Válková, by your means, Mr President. Because, of course, it is not just a substitute maintenance that we are doing to improve the situation in the absence of maintenance. And I would like, say, from my portfolio and my previous speaker, my colleague Válková, of course, to increase and more effective protection of maintenance during executions and insolvency proceedings, what we have done in recent months and years. And we will also be discussing in a moment a protected account where we have a broad political consensus across the political spectrum that we want to protect absolutely and radically as an unforgivable amount of maintenance. I also think that this will help to resolve the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u15	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue. The next performer is Mrs Richterová's point of view. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u16	I'd just like to remind you of the nature of the debate that it's about equalizing the children's chances. And the fact that it's not an ideal world solution, I think we all know that. But it's a solution that will practically work. And since Germany also works a lot with the parent who is able to pay the amount of maintenance, it is good to realize that we are in a situation where moments arise when the parent ceases to be able to pay maintenance. And the courts don't always take that into account fast enough. So I just want to point out that this is much more complicated, that, of course, the percentage of recovery will not be dizzying, but it will give evener, slightly better chances for children from a very problematic environment. And by the way, it's because it's a thing that pays off economically. When it counts what will bring the state the greatest benefit in the long run, it is more targeted support for children from poor families. Because that state can make a huge difference with thousands of crowns a month. And these families are typically so bad today that they have no energy, power, and no money to develop children. Which, in the long run, is economically negative for our country that we are not using the potential of these children from poor families. So that's a summary. And while I'm already on that factual point, that's why Germany has this substitute maintenance for the whole time of carelessness, there's no reason to limit it for 24 months, as it's suggested in our country. That is why I am also proposing an amendment for the pirát for the entire period of carelessness, including study. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u17	Thank you for your time on the point of fact and we will continue the debate with the speech of Mrs Helena Válková. A colleague. [[He doesn't want to get out.]] Well, I'm sorry. Now, Mr Václav Klaus, Mr Jan Bauer will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u18	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Almost all women report to the debate, with the exception of Mr Bauer, who is coming after me. So I would also say a few words, and I would like to defend the position of men here. For example, men who take care of their children apply to them. I'm paying for four kids. And I don't see any reason why, as a taxpayer, I should pay for other irresponsible daddies. I do not question the noble - Madam Secretary, kindly let me speak and keep your witless remarks somewhere in the pub or on some of your assets, and not here in the House! [[Secretary Maláčová at the newsstand.]] I do not question the noble intention of the proponents of this law, but let us see what this will lead to. A number of irresponsible fathers will stop paying at all because they'll say, well, it'll be paid by the state! I don't have it now, Jan, the state will give it to you. I'm not paying now. So we're trying to do something that's human nature, what's the thing about how people behave, some of us raise children perfectly, some of them worse - we're trying to fit the state in to sort it out for us. At a time when we are facing a huge government debt, we are introducing another social benefit. It's a thing that's not systemic. And what we're trying to say is, there's something in that society that the state will take care of. But the state, it's the taxpayers in the first place. You guys have closed down small businesses, left only the big ones, the people are dropping and the taxes are going down. And in the end, you'll run out of other people's money. So this is one of the laws that goes right in that direction. I cannot support him on this principle, and the Trikólora won't vote for him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u19	Thank you, Mr. Václav Klaus. Now the factual remark of Tereza Hyťhová, then colleague Bauer, who is ready. You have the floor, Madame, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u20	Thank you. I would like to supplement my colleague Václav Klaus. I've been doing this before. And just like I said, it's another welfare benefit. Today I have heard a debate here that has continued since the last time, and once again we have been confirmed that the state will not be able to enforce in any fundamental way, or it is simply unlikely that it will be able to recover from the unpaid fathers, and there will simply be another social benefit that will be paid by all of us and by the state. I do not think that this is a system solution, and we simply cannot vote for this proposal in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Jan Bauer now. Mrs Richterová will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. Dear colleagues, I have spoken many times here during the first and second reading for the Citizen's Democratic Party MEPs on this proposal, so allow me, in short, before the vote at the third reading for our Citizen's Club. We've made a motion to dismiss, I think that's common knowledge. The Civil Democratic Party does not agree with this proposal on principle. In our opinion, no amendment will improve this. The state can't and shouldn't subpoena the parents' responsibility. It's a new batch, a new mandatorial expense, nothing else. In my opinion, the debt recovery machine will start and the return will be slim. After all, the explanatory statement mentions about 10%. Taxpayers will settle down on the debts of alimony payers, and they may even increase. It's a precedent. The state is breaking into private relations, and there is a question of what business relationships it may be going into next. The citizens' Democratic Party wants social aid for singles in need of both covid and covid, which will be quick and effective. In our opinion, the current system of benefits is sufficient for this. We therefore wanted to revise the dosage system so that it could be simple, understandable and able to help quickly. So far, nothing has come from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and nothing has been prepared. Likewise, in many years, the Justice Department has not prepared a single proposal, the only incentive that would improve the situation in the context of current private disputes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u23	I thank Mr Jan Bauer. Now, Mrs Olga Richterová. Hana Aulická Jírovcová will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing two amendments to the pirát, actually the only amendments to the law, where I would be very happy if you would consider the support. One of you, and I would point out, honourable members and members of the House, does not have to stand at all by overpowering you, because it is the same amount, only expressed in another way. The amendment number 6264 refers to the replacement of a fixed sum of CZK 3,000, in the words of 0.78 times the life minimum of the individual. It is a proposal to establish replacement maintenance and its ceiling to the minimum of living, in order to automatically valorise this, and after a few years, as inflation accumulates, reach into this law and raise the amount. So it's a simple amendment counted almost to the koruna to match the $3,000, but it's just the vending machine. [[10.10 hours]] In addition to this automaticity, which we would like to introduce for the Pirates in the laws in general, the second amendment I have already mentioned here is that there should be no stop sign of the payment of the replacement maintenance at the moment, if the claim persists, but that it should be possible until provision is completed. So it's important that we don't tell ourselves that after two years of the situation, maybe by magical waving a wand, it'll all work itself out. And that's the last thing I want to say. I am surprised that there are no positive proposals in this debate on how to resolve this better. The situation is simply complex. The first reason is to prevent family disputes escalated into unpleasant divorces, i.e. systemic support for family meetings, systemic support for work with families, where problems occur and, for example, breakup. And then very crucial, and again it shows hard data, research, is supporting the involvement of the other parent, the one who doesn't have a child in the care of the child. Because again, as soon as a second parent, even though they broke up, is in very intense contact, the child also raises and so on, the unwillingness to pay maintenance falls rapidly once both parents are involved. And that's what it's good to follow up on court practice, to support the principles inspired by the Cochemian practice, and it's already working for us. Again, once it's an agreement concluded by both parents, there's a much higher willingness to pay alimony. In all of this, I want to show that we just have a set of things here that we should be standing up. To encourage prevention to avoid payment of maintenance at all. Of course, constantly saying that paying maintenance is normal, it's supposed to be normal, anyone who doesn't pay maintenance, even if they should and could, just behaves very badly. But, and that's the last thing, there's some part of it, and it's what people say about it, parents who have calculated maintenance and have nothing to pay for it. That's good to realize, too. Unfortunately, this complex of things, one to the other, leads to children growing up here in thousands of families who are very marked by this, the disputes escalated between parents, the recovery and the never-paid maintenance and poverty. So I would ask, I really say again, that the solution is not from an ideal world, but it is a solution that works elsewhere, it is an inspiration from Germany and it is a solution where I wish, after two or three years, that we would get a proper evaluation of statistics, ideas about how it improved the situation, what real impact it had had. And that's what I'm gonna end up with. To imagine how this state intervention - yes, it is a state intervention - has contributed, in particular, to some improvement in school results and the personal development of leisure activities, clubs, children from families involved. That's the kind of evaluation I'd like. It could also be on a relatively small sample when it is chosen representatively. [[Minister Maláčová is speaking with Mr Faltynek at the rapporteur's table.]] And that would be the final question to the Minister. I'll wait... I want to ask if the Ministry is planning such an assessment, a statistical impact assessment, I assume a positive one, for families in which replacement maintenance will be paid, and I'd like to ask you in the final speech to outline how you plan this evaluation, how you design it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u25	Thank you, Mrs Richterová. Before we continue our next performance, there are three factual points: Mr Václav Klaus, Mr Válková Válkova, Aleš Juchelka, followed by the announced Hana Aulická Jírovcová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u26	Just a factual point, because I was inspired by Mrs Richterová through you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u27	Madame, I will start measuring your time again and ask the House for peace! It's so loud in here. Please, if you're discussing a subject other than alternative maintenance, it's crucially in the foyer. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u28	Thank you. Can I make the whole point? [[President: Yes, of course.]] Thank you. I would like to say that I will follow up on what Mrs Richterová has said through you, Mr Vice-President, because this analysis is essential not only in the civilian field, it will be interesting to evaluate what will happen to us in the area of criminal matters, § 196, actually failure to comply with maintenance obligations. If there's any impact. You know, we've had an open debate in this regard. First of all. And the second point concerns what I have also heard here from Mr Klaus through you, Mr Vice-President. It's no argument at all that I'm an honest father. I applaud fathers who may have ten children and are fulfilling their alimony maintenance duty, but such a father cannot compensate for the needs of a child who has not had such happiness as his child. So I really don't understand it, and I'm happy to give that little contribution out of my taxes. Although I have heard here that this is actually another social benefit, and some colleagues may feel that way, but these children need it, they are not at all responsible for what family they were born into. And the fact that the family, eventually, and that's about the analysis, doesn't work with their resources the way it should in their best interests, that's our justice again, which clearly needs help. We also have a proposal for a new Act on the Children's Ombudsman, which could enter and assist such proceedings, even the observatory judges say that that would be a good thing. When you spoke of the Cochemian practice, Judge Beneš of Most himself says that a child's Ombudsman would be very helpful. I conclude with this point by completely agreeing with what Mrs Richterová has said here, that this is not the end of it, that should be the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u29	The time has ended for you to make a point of fact, Madame. Thank you. Now, Mr Václav Klaus' factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u30	We all know that the law won't work, and it will only lead to a lot of dads quitting because a number of fathers are in a difficult financial situation, not all bad guys. So it'll be the only one. You're transferring this duty to the state, all those comrades you're talking about. And if you take it that way, then you can also make a state committee that will approve marriages like Reverend Moon to choose the right dads to take care of the baby. And one more argument, a lot of those parents, maybe they don't mess with the kids at all. Maybe that's as bad as sending them $500 less. They just don't develop kids at all. So you're gonna introduce a state official who's gonna go to family after nights to play with the kids, write puzzles, and I don't know what? A lot of parents don't study with children, and none of them will, they'll live a very sad life. So you're going to introduce an official again, and you're going to perform here, who's going to teach children to develop these things? This is exactly what you do with this law. That's not an ad absurdum, that's my example I just set. That's exactly how it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u31	Thank you for keeping time. Now one more factual remark from Helena Válková, if she insists on it. [[It doesn't.]] If not, a colleague named Juchelka. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u32	Thank you very much. First, to Mr Klaus through you, Mr President. A parent who's movable and doesn't pay will always catch up with him if he doesn't just pay out of spite because he's just gonna get bailed out. On the other hand, I would like to point out, of course, that Mrs Olga Richterová, my esteemed colleague, through you, Mr President, has the beautiful idea and the wonderful vision, but mostly it is about the two people. I know cases where you don't get to mediate one of your parents if they just click. And we're not gonna do anything like what you said here in the beautiful and lavish, without being financially supportive. And at the moment, only 140 million crowns are available for the prevention of families in the giant budget of the MPSV. [[Minister Maláčová makes it clear.]] 150, thank you. And last year, even on the Social Policy Committee, we managed to save this preventive fund for all mediators and all organizations that work with their families in some way. [[10.20 hours]] And 150 million is so little, so little for the prevention. And I want you to know, Madam Secretary, that this is actually the case, because we will not move without the funds to do any mediation for our parents at all. We have a fantastic center for family and social care, which does an amazing job for parents who are in some conflict, for parents who have a handicapped child and so on, and this does not simply and simply receive funding, because here in this family prevention budget, for example, the municipality is a friendly family and the municipality is friendly to seniors. And even here from this budget, this competition between municipalities is essentially valid here. So without the money, it simply won't work. As far as the courts are concerned, and as if I'm going to end up, the court agrees CZK 7,820 on two children's average salary, which is not enough. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u33	For your information, I must say that Mr Ondřej Profant, after him Ondřej Veselý, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Pavel Blažek, Marek Výborný, will now speak with a factual remark. Those are factual remarks. It is also prepared with the priority right of Minister Jana Maláčová and Hana Aulická Jírovcová, then colleague Dolínek and Marek Benda. Those are applications, so you all know what the order is. Now, then, colleague Ondřej Profant, I am measuring his time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u34	Thank you. Colleagues, I understand that Václav Klaus is a great moral role model, and he could certainly tell us a long time about how to run a family life and so on. But I want to highlight the fundamental thesis. It's not about the parents at all. This meeting is about the children. Children who are the future, children who will live here. And if they don't get proper care and education, it's more likely that there'll be more problems, that they might start other troubled families themselves, and so on, while when they get elementary backgrounds, we have a better chance of some stable society looking ahead. And that's what we all want here. It's the truth about the kids. Sadly, there are such parents who don't pay, let's deal with it, but let's go somewhere else and not cowardly hide behind those poor parents who have the ex-partner who doesn't. They probably can't do better than stand by to recover the debt. We only put these people in a difficult position. Let's just be brave and stand up for them and the kids.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now a factual point Ondřej Veselý, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová will prepare herself. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I want to follow up on my honored colleagues Aleš Juchelka and Ondřej Profant and also respond to my colleague Klaus through you. I'm sorry, my colleague Klaus may know something about life, but he certainly doesn't know anything about working with children from excluded families, because what he's been giving here from his point of view of a great white man as a logical conclusion that no one is going to play with these children and no one is going to learn with them, so that, my colleague, is happening, and it's been happening for many years. There's a lot of kids from an uninspired environment who use social services to have a chance in their lives to get farther than their parents. And the people who are dedicated to them ensure that they often get out of the environment, can graduate or at least learn, and thus those people who do the job today protect your world of a great white man, because those children do not continue their parents' careers and are able to raise their own children. If you think it's funny that we're gonna play with these kids and learn with them after that, that's what's going on, Mr. Ambassador. [[Nesroz.]] Do social services if you don't care, and you would know that such things are already happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u37	I thank you for keeping time on the point of fact, now Mrs Pekarová's factual remark to Adamová, Pavel Blažek will prepare for the point of fact. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u38	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it would be for the benefit of this proposal if the explanatory memorandum and, in general, the argument contained a simple thing, an analysis of how many parents do not pay, because it really cannot, it has such low incomes, it is so existentially wrong, and how many do not pay because it does not want for some reason. And I think that it is - I know that the impact for the child is in a way the same, but it would certainly be something to solve the problem that would help us lead the debate in the direction of how to deal with the causes afterwards. Because in this case, the proposal acts as if, instead of the arsonist who sets the fire, we only dealt with the fire itself, and so they were firemen of the fire, but we didn't look at the arsonist at all. And that sounds to me like a fundamentally wrong approach, because it should be crucial for us not to set the fire on fire. And if someone is doing it because it's just doing him good or someone because he's just sick, then let's solve the cause, but let's not just deal with the consequences. And I'm gonna allow myself to sign up for this, and I'm gonna do it with a longer than just a technical remark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Pavel Blažek's factual comment, Marek Výborný will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u40	Hello, thank you for your word. I will just briefly follow up on my colleague Juchelka, perhaps to draw attention to a difference between theory and practice. My colleague here was right to say that the state after the dads will enforce it, but that could happen now, that wouldn't have to be the law here. If execution and trial work faster and faster, it can be enforced this way today. So this law doesn't really help at all. The daddy who's been avoiding it until today, the payment, he's gonna keep moving happily, only the burden will move on. And I would also like to draw the House's attention, and even today we have some suggestions about the execution of executions again, if this House continues the trend that it is - and now I will say populist, which means we will always be on the debtor's side, so the debtors are the dads too. I'm here to point out that if we continue in this direction, it won't be worth the execution in a moment, that is, executors disappear, well, no one likes them, so they won't, but we're going to go back to the practice of state execution, which means courts, and that maybe even you will remember, even if you're younger, and they'll start the third insolvency and fourth and so on, because it's just not going to be prosecuted by the state. And I would ask, in particular, the government coalition and some members of the ČSSD to realise that it will affect absolutely all areas, if we continue to strengthen the rights of debtors and, pardonfully, we will leave those creditors mainly because they are less and have less electoral potential. I can tell you from practice that already today, debtors who may not pay for energy are essentially waiting for them to have other and other options to avoid paying. The result will be the only one - the energy will get more expensive and those who pay will pay for those who don't pay. And this bill could end up in a lot of similar ways. And this trend just isn't right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u41	I thank you for keeping time on a point of fact. Now Marek Výborný's factual comment, prepares for a factual remark by Václav Klaus and there are other factual remarks - colleague Gajdůšková, Válková and Hyťhová. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, I know it's not really the subject, but Aleš Juchelka here opened it. I thank him for that. The really preventive question, that means working with those families, is extremely important. And when it came from Aleš Juchelka's mouth, corrected by the Minister, the 150 million, that's an incredibly low amount. If we want to help the National Center for Family and other organizations that are active with those families, with those endangered families, that is what we are primarily interested in here, working, ladies and gentlemen, Aleš Juchelka is a member of the government movement YES, Madam Secretary is part of the government, you have a unique opportunity. He went through the state budget at first reading this week, and when we see him here tonight throwing himself at all sides, don't tell me that some relatively small amount that would strengthen this program couldn't be found. And I want to emphasise, even our mayors, the folklore, and not just the folk mayors and the captains, are doing their utmost to help these families. Take a look at the new concept of the Pardubice Region's pro-family policy. It was approved at the last deputies in the last term, which means, sometimes three months ago, and it's a model material that's not in the drawer, but that's precisely in practice to help these families. The people of a friendly family are all programs that we can support here from the level of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and avoid the problems that are being discussed here. Thank you very much for your family and parents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u43	I thank you for keeping time on a point of fact. And Mr Václav Klaus' factual comment, will be prepared for the factual remark made by Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u44	I would have responded to Mr. Profant through you. I'm surprised none of my colleagues have ever stood up for me. There's a serious debate going on here where there are different political opinions, which is why it's emotional. I said I understand the noble ideas of the petitioners, and I argue that it won't work, and you have the nerve to use some personal attacks! What do you know about my family? Do you have any doubt that I don't care about my children? So come and tell me out there, but don't use it in the third reading of the important law! Don't be mad at me! [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. - Mr. Congressman...]] Your way. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. - That's right. Thank you.]] If I said you smell weird, it'd be a thousand times closer to the truth than not caring about my kids, but I never thought to use disgusting personal attacks here at the speaking desk. Then don't do it, too!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact, and I repeat that MEPs are addressing each other through the President. Now, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková, Helena Válková will prepare, then Teraza Hyťhová. This would allow us to draw out the actual comments that have been made so far. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u46	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honored House, only three brief remarks. I won't respond to Mr. Václav Klaus Jr., that's out of the question. He insulted us, too, but I think those who are watching it will take a picture of themselves. However, I would like to respond to the honourable Member, Mrs Adamová Pekarová. There are two essential things. For us Social Democrats are essential children. And the civilization level of society is recognized by the way it treats the weakest. And if there's a group of weak people in that society, they're really children. They just need to be taken care of by the company if their family can't do it, their background. That's just the way it is. That's the civilization level of society. And to analyze the one who doesn't pay alimony and why, I'll tell you what I heard at the beginning when we started discussing it, from the Lonely Mothers Club. They claim that if a mandatory parent has a set height of maintenance by a court, I emphasize the court, then he simply has the power to pay for it! And my experience of how people approached us is really about not being the weakest ones there who may have gotten into trouble at some point, but they were people who were well situated and just used it as an instrument against their former partner. And that's what happens when we adopt this law, and I'm ready to keep talking about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u47	Madame, the time has ended for your point of fact. Now, then, Mrs Helena Válková, Hyťhová Hyťhová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u48	I'm going to be a fluent follow-up because I think everything that's been said here, as they say, cum grano salis, with a certain generalization, can be supported. And I liked the analogy that Mrs Adamová Pekarová said to you through here, because yes, when the fire burns, and I'm glad she sees it as a fire, because for those children especially in this situation, they're already in the fire. I'll save the baby first, won't I? And I won't be in a situation where my child is on fire looking for the perpetrator. I'll look for him immediately, of course. So thank you, Madame. That was an excellent but excellent example. Second point. Of course, you're right that this is just one element that will not in itself help solve the situation of children in the Czech Republic from the endangered families. So we're not gonna do the element because we don't have a system solution, and we're gonna wait for someone to come up with some conceptual reform in two, three, five years, and then we're gonna solve the problem? We know each other. We are in the Czech Republic. Most of the time, we're not very systemical and we're dealing with ad hoc matters. Sometimes with mistakes. And third time's my point. I don't want our kids to be like suburban kids in the U.S. I want our children to have the same care as our neighbors and those socially weaker families in Germany and Austria. These are the examples for me that are worthy of following, and there I know, especially in Germany, very well. That's where they take care of them to the max. Even those families who are in this situation and need increased financial assistance. I don't have time to comment on the factual point anymore, but that's where we should -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u49	You really do not have that, Madame, because the time for your factual remark has ended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u50	Okay. Thank you. - in this direction and not in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u51	I'm patience myself today. Now, my colleague Tereza Hyťhová, the President of the Chamber of Deputies. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u52	Thank you. I would go back to the debate, and I really beg the use of expressions like we're antisocial, that we don't want to think about kids, that we don't care about them and stuff like that. I'm really begging you! It's nonsense. I say there's an YES and a CSSD movement in the government. You have ministers, you have people to do it, you have the opportunity to change these things, like courts, court enforcement. That's a problem that won't be solved by this law. The problem is here today. It is not only in the Czech Republic, it is of course everywhere in the world, we do not have to talk about it at all, but the problem lies in this. The state can't get the money anyway! So once again the state will make another social benefit like this, and it will pay money for people - yes, some of course may be in distress, in financial distress, they may be in trouble, I will not dispute that, but they are certainly people who simply don't want to pay, and they have the money for it. And we're going to pay for these people as a state of maintenance. Primarily, it's not the state that cares for the children, it's the parent. His own parent. The state is supposed to help the parent perform his duty and take care of the child properly and pay child support for him eventually. But we can't, like, substitute the role of a parent in the fact that the state will make up for everything. It's nonsense for the future! That's not the answer. The problem will always be here, the enforcement will be the same, and basically the problem won't be solved. And please, I beg the opinion that we are antisocial, that we do not want to help children! It's nonsense. We want to help children, but problems are to be solved where they are, and not add more and more and more and more. And that's just gonna be a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u53	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. The President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček will now speak with a factual remark. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u54	Thank you for the floor. To Mr Klaus. I signed up for a point of fact, and it was only just now that I came in. Mr Profant. The introduction of your speech was desperate, pathetic, completely out of line, was beneath and is not a dignified member of this Chamber of Deputies. I didn't think I'd see such an attack on family life. If you want to maintain our respect as an elected representative who has been sent here by the voters of the Czech Republic to lecture their views, then take your time and apologize to Mr Klaus! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u55	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact to the President. Thank you. Now, Mr Aleš Juchelka, with a point of fact. Mr. colleague, I will repeat: Mrs. Valachová, Pekarová behind you. Now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u56	Thank you very much. President Vondráček, and I am very happy for that, took the wind from my sails because I wanted to say exactly the same thing, and I am very pleased that he said this right here from the position of President of the House. So I'm going to go straight to the second point. I would like to respond to Mrs GajdůGajdůšková through you, Mr President. I would like to say that on that note that an advanced society can be seen by how it takes care of the weakest, such as children or seniors, so I would like to say that we in the Czech Republic really take care of those children who get into trouble. We have no children on the streets, we have extended foster care, we have extended institutional care, children's homes. So let's just call things real names. We really care about the needy, but what we're gonna approve here is that we're gonna help irresponsible parents. [[10.40 hours]] So, of course, when we speak, also here, Mrs Válková, through Mr President, about the fact that the child is not so lucky to parents. Lucky is if I bet numbers and win some money. But we're talking about the irresponsibleness of parents who don't care about their children. Here we are helping them, and we are helping them by actually approving in my opinion - and I have to raise my hand for this, of course, because we have a signed coalition agreement - by introducing another social benefit here, because enforcement is really very trivial, even in all the advanced states of the European Union, as we see it around us. This will not really apply to parents, we will always step on them through this law in the framework of executions, etc. But this is really about the group of irresponsible parents who already have, for example, benefits in material distress, etc., and we are helping them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u57	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over. We are now continuing with the factual remark made by Mrs Valachová, then by Mrs Pekarová, then by Mr Ferjenčík and still waiting for the Minister's priority right. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u58	Thank you. A few comments on the debate. First of all, the law isn't about parents, it's not about dads, it's not about moms, it's not about irresponsible parents. It's about the kids. Second, the law will spread the safety net in a situation where the child does not receive maintenance. And that's what situations are, we all know that. Third, women and men, both of these groups, sometimes do not pay maintenance. Let's stop distinguishing it from good moms and bad dads. I think that would be a bad message. So women and men, both of these groups, sometimes they don't pay maintenance and it's wrong in both cases. As far as irresponsible is concerned, I'll follow up on the previous speaker. Well, I'd rather say that this is a children's safety net in cases where maintenance rules are violated, and we're just preventing this law from making a victim a child, and we're the legislators just watching. That's all. And Tereza Hyťhová through you, yes, she said that - let's speed up the courts, make more law enforcement, make sure that whoever can, work, make money and pay his obligations, especially to his children. That's all there is to it. But that's what we do. But there's no point in saying that when all this happens, we're just gonna start dealing with kids who have these problems now, and they're getting older every year, and their childhood is very fast. It's just a safety net, and we're protecting the kids.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u59	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, then Mrs Ferjenčík. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u60	Thank you for the floor. I may be wrong now because I have been wearing this number in my head for about two years, so it is possible that it has changed, but if I am not mistaken, the Czech Republic has 27 different social benefits. Sure, something is pensions, disability pensions, etc. Twenty-seven welfare benefits. We're a pretty social state. And in this direction -- maybe the secretary will correct me if any benefits haven't been added, if we're not already in our 30s -- but in this direction, we're actually saying in this proposal that the dosage palette is insufficient to deal with different life situations. When I said about the analysis, a few of you responded, and you actually admitted that you didn't have anything like that. First of all, the secretary said that there's been a debate here for 15 years about a substitute maintenance. So in 15 years, there was no opportunity to do such an analysis, or to compare who is really needed and who is just using the system, or who just doesn't want to pay and through maintenance solves his conflict with his former partner? After all, that is the basis for seeking the right ways. Through the President, Mrs Válková, who, as Minister of Justice, has a bit of butter on his head in a way, I apologize for the notion. But in this regard, it simply turns out that you, even though this coalition is seven years old in government, have simply not done too much, rather nothing with the expediency. So you basically want to move the system or the responsibility to all taxpayers, from irresponsible to responsible. That's it. That's the thing that's in there, that's the principle that you're defending here, and you're not even able to admit that the fundamental steps that would just - I'm reacting to the previous speakers -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u61	Your time for a point of fact is over.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u62	I'll come back one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u63	Now, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík with a point of fact, and then perhaps we will get back to the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to respond to President Vondráček, and I would have such a request that he stand up similarly for fellow Members when they are insulted by the Prime Minister. Because what the Prime Minister did here yesterday was absolutely incredible. I think it would also deserve a comment from the President of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u65	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now with the priority right of Mrs. Labor and Social Affairs Minister Jana Maláčová. He'll be ready for his colleague Aulická. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u66	Thank you, Mr President. I'd sum up the situation that's going on here. They're basically discussing two camps here. One camp says - let's help children in a lifeless situation. The second camp says - people in a lifeless situation should not be helped, let everyone take care of themselves, virtually. Let's raise our parents instead of helping our children. For example, as a social democracy, we say that helping children must be done. Besides being human, it is also civilized, it is right and it is beneficial for society for the long term. Helping children means paying them what the parent who bailed on them didn't pay them, that those kids would have a chance at a normal life, that they would graduate, they wouldn't be criminals, they would be involved in society. So these are the two camps. But that is what we say, and that is what the debate is about - we need to raise parents. This law does not take responsibility from parents in any way, but first we help children, and then let's radically raise paying parents. Honestly, there's a whole bunch of things that haven't been done about enforcement. We have prepared the law at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, although it does not fall within our remit, we have finished it, and I will be very happy to have the lawyers in this Chamber, in particular, present it as a parliamentary initiative. 'Cause there's been a 15-year debate here about foster child support, 15-year debate about how law enforcement doesn't work out, and those kids have grown up in the meantime. It's really about helping children in a lifeless situation, because it's much better for this society than letting thousands of children grow up every year, which then - you know, the mother of crime is poverty - than if we put out adult irreparability again in adulthood. So that's what this law is about. As regards primary prevention, as Mr Juchelka said, I completely agree that primary prevention is the key. It has fallen from Mrs Richterová, the Cochemian practice. This is all we do. I do not want to get involved in this debate, but I, as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, have increased the budget from 100 million to 150 million, which means half. This is the budget we hold. At the same time, however, I think that primary prevention is about the interconnection of education, OSPODs, social services and also the non-profit sector. And we're working hard on that, because primary prevention is the key. [[Permanent noise in the hall.]] And one last thing in response to President Pekarová's Adamová. You know very well that we don't have statistics and numbers because the Justice Department doesn't follow that. For the Ministry of Justice, the issue of maintenance ends with the decision of the court on the amount of child support. That's why I was talking about the fact that the law will actually help us put things in order, because we're finally gonna know what the real situation is, and then we can work with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u67	Thank you, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Now, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. Excuse me, Madam. I still have three factual points - Mr Stanjura, Mr Juchelka and Mr Bauer, in that order. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u68	Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u69	I'll measure it for you again, I understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u70	No, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u71	But it bothers me because I gave you my word, and there's a lot of noise. Once again, Madam Members, if you are discussing something else or also the Act on supplementary maintenance, and you do not have the floor, please in the foyer! Here, the one to whom the word "presiding" has been given will speak. Now Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. I'm measuring time again, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u72	Thank you, I wanted to speak to the Minister, which is why I waited for her to see me. I must very seriously reject the cheap cliché that started my exposé, that there are two groups of Members - one who want to take care of the children, and others who throw the children overboard. There's no such thing here, and it's a cheap left-wing cliché from the nineteenth century, and Madam Secretary, don't use it again. We are having a legitimate debate about how to help these families, and what the Social Democrats are saying is that the state is absolutely surrendering to law enforcement. But absolutely! It absolutely capitulates and goes to the expense of those who are honest, who take care of children who work and pay taxes. That needs to be said together. That's not some money somebody's gonna give to support it. It's always easy to do good for other people's money. But there is a real problem, and we who do not support this bill do not in any way mitigate the situation and we do not say that there is no need to help those families. We're talking about how. So, Madam Secretary, forgive the cheap, false and false division of Members into two groups of those who take care of children and those who don't give a damn about them! Have fun with us, but this is a legitimate political debate on how to help those families. But the secretary chose the method - either it's my way, and whoever's not with me doesn't like kids. And I really must say no to that very strongly. Nothing like that is true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u73	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I note the factual remark made by Minister Maláčová, but it will only take her turn after Pavel Blažek. Now, then, colleague Juchelka, Bauer, Blažek and then Minister Maláčová. So, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u74	Thank you. I would also like to see the Minister through you. We are not divided here into Members who do not want to deal with the endless situation of parents with children and those who, of course, want to deal with it. That's not what this is about. We, in our social system, are dealing with the endless situation of many citizens. We have here, as my colleague Pekarová said, 27 social benefits, or how many, and all can be attended by single parents and single parents. Besides, one such remark. When we talk about singles, in fact, in my opinion, only a person who is a widower or a widower is a single person. I'm talking a lot about the irresponsibleness of my parents. And you yourself, Madam Secretary, have indicated in your contribution that prevention is extremely important. So the answer to the 150 million is not enough, Madam Secretary. It's not enough.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u75	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jan Bauer's point of fact, a colleague Blažek, then Minister Maláčová and then Mrs Richterová, will be prepared with factual remarks. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u76	My esteemed colleagues, very little I must confess, will personally touch me in the House, but what has been said here from the mouth of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, it means dividing into those who want to help, and those who do not want to help, have really touched me personally. I consider it not only populist, but a scandalous statement. It just doesn't belong here. I know it's very helpful for someone else's money, which we see here practically from the Ministry of Labour and Madam Secretary every year or every day. Well, I've spent my whole life, whether I was in the position of mayor, MP or otherwise, trying to help somebody else, but also mine, and I'm really sorry to hear that statement. I've been here three years trying to explain to the Minister that for our party, for our MP, we've never questioned that a large group of single mothers are in trouble, and they need help. It's just about the trip. We've been calling you here for three years, but together for seven years, you have come up with concrete solutions to improve enforcement in the context of current private disputes. But I already said it here in my performance, you didn't do anything. You didn't do anything. You may have some idea now, as I heard at the Ministry, but nothing came from the Justice Department. And we are merely warning you that how you want to deal with some things, which is a substitute maintenance, will simply not work and it will simply be paid by citizens of the Czech Republic. The numbers haven't fallen yet, but in just one year after that, it's going to be a sum of approximately one billion crowns. You're saying that enforcement will be 10 percent, so 900 or 800 million crowns will just disappear somewhere. Other costs, approximately CZK 120 million, will be for recruiting new workers and tens of millions more for the new information system. That will be the bill of how you want to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u77	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Pavel Blažek will now prepare for a factual remark by Minister Jana Maláčová. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u78	Thank you for the floor. I want to thank my colleague Pekarová. I didn't know we had 27 social benefits. It's news to me. I'm observing the Minister's careful writing here, so maybe we'll just stay sharp, invent a dose of twenty-eight or twenty-nine, so we need to keep an eye on it and keep a close eye on it. That's all I'm saying about this debate. There is a perfectly legitimate debate about where the state is supposed to intervene. The debate is about this. And every state intervention has unintended consequences. It is legitimate to talk about the fact that it can also lead to further worse enforcement of the law, to the fact that a lot of those - and I say on purpose, dads, my colleague Valachová is right that it also applies to moms. I used to visit prisons, so I just saw dozens of dads who, instead of letting go of the crown, didn't have the money, so they let themselves go to jail so that the maintenance wouldn't have to pay. And unfortunately, these people are going to be one of those who make money on this bill whether we like it or not. I'd also like to join my colleague Stanjur. The cliché that someone likes kids and someone doesn't, based on how they vote on this law, I don't think it's right. And there's just one more thing. There are so many things about kids that we can't solve. Let me give you one example. The kid goes to first grade, his classmate has the latest cell phone, and the other guy doesn't even have the worst one, he just doesn't have one. He's getting into a world full of social differences. The first thought that could come to somebody's mind - we're gonna buy the poorer phones. But that's just catching up with something we'll never catch up on, because I don't know if that's the way God made us, or if that's how it works, in short, and we're born into different families. Things happen in these different families. And hopefully I'll say one sentence optimistic. When you read the résumés of those who made it somewhere, they're very often from bad social conditions, that they're kicked into performances that they just didn't need in cotton. [[Time warning]] [[incomprehensible to the President's speech]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u79	Thank you and now with the factual remark of Minister Jana Maláčová, my colleague Richterová will prepare herself with a factual comment. On the waiting list are still colleagues Aulická, Dolínek and Benda after colleague Hyťhová, which is the final factual comment so far. I don't know if it'll last that long. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u80	Thank you. I might, in response to Mrs Pekarová Adamová and that number 27. No matter how much we count at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, we can't figure out what number 27 is for benefits. Perhaps it would be interesting to hear what Mrs Pekarová Adamová considers a social benefit. I guess we'd still be surprised. Otherwise summing up the debate. I appeal that if we help children who don't stand a chance of not paying child support for a normal life, we'll avoid a lot of problems in their future. Our social system is built on helping through social benefits when those people fall to the bottom. And the substitute maintenance is that we don't let those people, especially those kids, fall to the bottom, the state will help with alimony, and there's a better chance that these kids will be good citizens. Because then it's more expensive for everyone. That means it's an investment in not producing here every year because law enforcement, irresponsible citizens, doesn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u81	Thank you for keeping the point of fact, Madam Secretary. Now, Mrs Olga Richterová, with a point of fact, will be prepared for a factual remark by Mr Marek Výborný and Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u82	I'd just like to sum up a little bit, because we've been debating for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, I absolutely respect that we have different views. In that factual point, I would like to respond to the fact that there have been a lot of relevant things here, such as the need to give more money for prevention, from Mr Juchelka. So I just wanted to afford to remind myself here - after all, there is still going to be a vote on the state budget. You're a government party. There aren't enough 150 million proposed today, so do I. However, when we suggested more in the past, it didn't work. Can you agree to an increase within government parties? It would feel right to separate the subject. That's just one topic. It was also said that there are other ways, that there should be better ways, and it didn't say what it was. I just wanted to ask, the other related improvements could be dealt with probably first at the Committee on Family, then eventually through the Social Committee and so on. Then it sounded like an improvement in enforcement. There's the problem that it hasn't happened over the years. You were in those governments, we haven't yet. But it just didn't happen, and these people live here and now. So I would very much like to improve enforcement. Once again, I think it is for a great professional debate and shifts in concrete proposals here to the House. But already specific suggestions. Then to the end. We who want to vote against will be responsible. And while I'm not going to have any influence on how the Labor Office is going to do it, I'm going to raise my hand with full knowledge of this risk, because the situation here is really not good. And there are too many very poor singles. The numbers are clear. It's the most threatened poverty group. And in this situation, when it is so spread out, I would call on us not to gradually reach the conclusion of the debate. I'd feel like it's almost time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u83	Thank you. Member Marek Výborný with a point of fact. President Pekarová Adamová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Just for a very short time. Ladies and gentlemen. I'm convinced it's not really Losna and Mažňák here, it's not the bad guy and the good guy who's supposed to fight each other. It's a very serious debate. It's a debate about how far state intervention is supposed to go. I will say personally, for me the decision on this matter is one of the most serious and complex ones in the three years that I have been sitting here in the Chamber of Deputies. Because I understand the arguments of both sides, and both sides are actually right. This decision is very complicated, very complicated. I would also like to have a draft here hand in hand, which will take steps towards the enforcement of the non-payers. Unfortunately, we don't have it. This would make it much easier to make the decision itself. And let's not get illusioned. Of course, even the standard would not be self-saving, it would not be 100% effective, but it would, of course, be better and more advantageous. But surely it is not that those who do not support this proposal will resign, or go against children, against families, against parents. This is indeed not the case, because the relevance of the arguments is on both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u85	Thank you. Madam President Markéta Pekarová Adamová, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u86	Madam Secretary, I would have expected that, as Minister and former civil servant of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, you would be able to disprove the number I have given here by your number. This means you will be able to tell how many doses we actually have in the Czech Republic. If this is not the case, then I, with the help of one of my colleagues, Mr Bauer of the Social Policy Committee, remember that even from your ministry officials at one of the committee's meetings there was a number that was 26. I'm so sorry. Maybe it's already twenty-seven. However, as to whether or not we have as much or not, it is actually in a way irrelevant in the number, but what is important is how much of the state budget we give to support people in need, how much we give on all these matters. And if we find cracks in these doses, in the sense that people who do not reach something because one parent doesn't pay alimony regularly, maybe they get into problems with housing or livelihood, then we're supposed to adjust the benefits we already have so that people can get help, not invent a new flat dose, which will just cost a lot of officials and other deposits that are in it. And I want to turn to the fact that our whole argument here is interpreted as a dispute about whether or not someone is after someone and the other isn't about the kids. That's not really here. This is about how to get the help to them, or how to get the mandatory parent, the one who's supposed to have full responsibility to pay for it himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u87	Thank you. Member Aulická Jírovcová in the debate. Before that, there is a factual remark from the Member - no. Okay. So Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová in the debate. Member Petr Dolínek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u88	Thank you, Mr President. That's how I got there after all. Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, I've been thinking for a while, and, of course, Madam Secretary and Minister, if it's even worth coming in here and saying something about myself, because that gunfight was sometimes about things that just don't belong here. The only thing I can say for KSČM is that, and you all know it here that we also enforce our own legislation, which has been here for three years. And it's not the first time we've tried to make up for it to be here. That more or less our proposal was actually killed by the fact that we were waiting here for a government proposal that made big changes than the secretary originally wanted on some coalition agreement, I guess we can't tell about it here, but the final result for the KSČM is not entirely clear. I must say that we are not happy with the final proposal that we have here today and that we will be voting on. Yes, we definitely support the principle of helping the most needy, and we stand by it. On the other hand, the way it was intended and how we are to vote today, we think that in this practice - and it has been said here by some of my colleagues - this can be a really big problem. That is why I would be very happy for that, and I do not think that I would be at all upset if, perhaps, we agreed on some accompanying resolution that this evaluation should come after that year or two years. But with the evaluation and other legislative topics that would change the situation, or the legislation, which should respond to the practice. It's been said here about the executions that the Labor Office will be overwhelmed. I'm afraid so. I think that the whole concept of the Labour Office should actually be changed and changed over the long term on the basis of legislative changes adopted. I'm afraid that in this change, which is likely to pass, unfortunately, the employment office, although of course the costs are mentioned, will simply not be able to respond immediately and the personnel problems there will be significant. We all also know that the labour market is problematic in the fact that our officials at the employment office are often unable to maintain. There's a big change in the fact that they're just leaving us when they find out what work it is, what activity it is and what money it is. At this point, I think that, above all, there should be task number one, Madam Secretary, stabilizing the employment office and, above all, changing the employment office not to the labour supply office, but to the employment office, where employment and other related matters are really being dealt with. Our proposal also pointed out that we had a coefficient for families who could ask for it. That means where there was an income limit for families who could ask for this dose. I say it hard, it's just a dose, we're not afraid of it. On the other hand, we really see the families behind this where the need for those parents is. This proposal does not contain it, and I think, even after the debate we had, and we wanted to put it there initially, that we were then retreating, because we think that even in this Chamber of Deputies, they would probably not vote for this proposal. I'm afraid that may have a great deal of abuse in the whole system. [[11.10 hours]] Perhaps I would also head a bit into the ranks of the mayors here, because in the previous discussion it was said whether it was systemic, nonsystemic and so on. For us, for example, at this moment and at this moment, in accordance with this bill proposal, we do not perceive the unsystemicity of CZK 6,000 one-time for the help of singles. Because this law, this proposal, although we have many reservations about it, is aimed at the most necessary, that is to say, those who really need it. For example, I have said this in many cases, and I see it from practice, according to which the parameters mentioned are actually, who would be entitled to the one-off proposal of CZK 6,000 within the singles. I am not hiding that we in the Ústí Region have a rather large percentage of abuse of social benefits in general. And that's just a simple fact. And even as part of the singles, I'm so worried that every single person doesn't always have to be a single person. And I think it's those who are really rubbing off on the misery that they're trying to feed their children, because maybe the other partner doesn't pay, so we're talking about 40, 50 percent. But the other 50 percent of singles who are somehow registered as singles simply have the other partner. Like it or not, the situation from practice really shows it. We just don't have it systemically listed anywhere. And we're just not gonna make these people, or we're gonna make those families register somehow, because that's why they're gonna get some extra benefits. That is why I think that, above all, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs should aim at the systemic rate to separate the abuse and the impact on those who really need it. And it's not just about singles and singles. I'm saying this because even the 6,000 crowns we can't really separate whether it's necessary or unnecessary. And don't be mad at me, maybe even claim an encore for the baby. What are those families supposed to do, maybe three hundred more, and they won't be entitled to it anymore? And so, if 6,000 crowns were approved, they wouldn't be entitled to it either. It's the same as the midwife's. The difference is often very - five hundred, a thousand crowns - only because it is not entitled to the birth, and in this sense also. That is why we will also support this proposal, because there I think it is really aimed at the necessary ones and it is a percentage that really needs help. We were also wondering if it is really good to have only the two years of helping out, or whether the way Mrs Richterová's proposal is not to prolong it after 24 months, if that claim is. I have to say, we're not on our own yet, but that's exactly what the problem is. And I am very sorry that some Members here claim that the Justice Department is working on it. It didn't do anything. I didn't. And he doesn't really care. Because the original mechanism was that the Labour Ministry would prepare a proposal on its part, and the Justice Department would put in place those new tools that should help and work in the system. It didn't do anything, and that's why we're just talking about a new batch. That's right. And I don't think so, Madam Secretary, because that's what the Social Policy Committee told us, Minister Maláčová, that this is a system solution. It's not. Because the Justice Department is supposed to come up with a system solution. And don't be mad at me for the two term I've been here, it's done absolutely nothing. And whether you can beat yourself to it here, some colleagues, that they're done or not, just didn't do anything. Not even within the framework, perhaps in those executions, of those debtors in part, but more or less I think that for the practice, and as I speak with those non-profit organizations that work with those people, nothing has been done in this Chamber of Deputies for the past eight years. I miss it here, I'll say it again, the concept, the systemicity, the bonding. Absolutely nothing. You're having fun here, that education should work, or the interconnection of education, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Health and others, the Ministry of Justice. It's hard then, when the ministries can't communicate with each other on the ground here, governments and committees, let alone systemically working in that practice. I have to say, it's a question, it's mostly on the hunchback of those authorities and those regions that can coordinate it and try to make it work in the field. So thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u89	Thank you. Mr Petr Dolínek will now appear, Mr Benda will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u90	Thank you. We were just afraid of this discussion with our colleague Gajdůškovášková and others that it would happen. Because when you look at the original proposal that we proposed, it was a little bit different designed, because exactly we expected it to only go wrong in the discussion of doses, not in an effective tool. Our proposal, as it was written, was actually written in such a way that it would be an immediate quick instrument and that it would not be so relativized. However, on the other hand, we are aware that the majority must be found for every law, and that is why we have been happy to meet our partners and find a way that should be voted out, and I firmly hope that, at the end of the day, at the price of the compromises that Mrs KSČM has spoken, the proposal will be approved. I'd like to stand up for myself here, Madam Secretary. I feel like my ODS colleagues are getting a little self-conscious at one point today. Madam Secretary didn't say you didn't want to take care of the baby, at least as I perceived it. She said it was a different look. We say that if it doesn't work out, it comes to the state. And that he respects the fact that the other view is that the family, or the no longer working family itself, is to solve it as much as possible, and not to put in that state's middleman if I simplify it. But you were able to kick yourself and say that someone was insulting you. I didn't see it that way, and I'm hoping that we can get back to the real discussion, and we don't have to lean into each other like this. I'd like to say how sorry I am that in this discussion, it's flattering as bad, paying dads and great moms. I think every parent who takes care of a child is great, and it doesn't matter if it's Dad or Mom. I was in charge of social policy several times during the time I served in Prague on the Council, and thanks to this I met dozens of stories about people when my dads were taking care of the baby, they didn't get money from the moms when their dads wanted to give money, but they didn't have it. There's just gonna be a life situation where they can't do it. I would like it to be said here that there really is a large percentage of those who are underpaid at some stage of their lives, but objectively, at some stage of their lives, it just doesn't work. And I think this instrument should help those people not get into some totally desperate situation. And finally, I would like to say, you know, we as social democracy have respected here in the past months, and now I don't think about the situation of the pandemic, but in general, we have solved here that we are giving a million crowns to simplify the payment of social and health. We've helped out here in the last eight, seven years to raise wages in every possible sector. We help where we can, and we fully respect that. Something is our priority, something is the priority and opposition parties, and we are able to do so. And we thought it was good to see those kids. And like when we've already helped everyone here, we'd be helping like those kids, and today's the day we can do it. So please try to respect that it's already gotten to those kids and we'd like to help them. And I respect that you would have done it the other way. I think we have the same goal. But now the majority may be found for this state trip. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u91	Thank you. Mr Marek Benda, the last one entered in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u92	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Ladies and Gentlemen, I confess that I have been largely provoked by my honourable colleague Richterová's proposals for this to be forever and ever. We'll evaluate it in two years, but it's supposed to be forever and ever. And then a little bit, I have to say... angry to be correct. In a situation where everyone here - I'm logged in for about an hour and a quarter - all take factual notes, some speak out twice or three times, then call for an end to the debate, when they're properly logged in here, it seems to me like a little bit unfair. The way in which factual remarks are used here to apply one's own opinions, and then you, who have applied correctly and properly, prefer not to speak, is not entirely correct. About what's going on here. I remember in the early 1990s when the recently deceased Roger Scruton arrived in the Czech Republic and, in some debate about the Western model, he said, "Please beware of one thing. Do not end up like a large part of Great Britain, where the family looks like a mother, a child, and a state bureaucrat who feeds them. - I remember it until today, and this is exactly the way to it. We don't need any more daddies, we just need the state bureaucrats to pay the benefits. [[11.20 hours]] Everyone here looks incredibly moral about how it's helping kids. So let's at least take some of this apart. There are two groups of parents - and let's face it, almost always fathers - that don't pay. One group that just doesn't have what it takes, but then, in my opinion, it's really ripe and right for a welfare benefit, because it doesn't matter if the daddy who doesn't have what it takes, or even the mom, lives with the kid or is supposed to pay alimony. When they live with him, and they don't have the resources to pay, they can't help the other person, so there's also a need for the state to enter in some way. And then the other group, which are the ones fighting over the kids. And this proposal is a proposal for radical women's organizations that feel it's right to deal with their fathers through children. That's all it is. Because that's the other group that doesn't pay. These are exactly the situations that we experience many times in practice, where there are some judicial decisions, there are some ordered cohabitations, alternating care, at least once every 14 days my dad is supposed to see them, and on one side they are dramatically prevented. And that dad's defending himself with what? He'll stop paying! And now we're gonna say no, he's gonna take it all out on himself, and it's gonna be even easier for these rogue groups where it's always the two of them. For these messed-up, hysterical parents who are fighting kids, we're gonna tell them, so he's gonna take half the war on himself. It seems so unreasonable to me. I think this proposal is really unhappy. And the last point I'd like to make. We had it here yesterday, we'll have it here in an hour. [[It points to the light board, where the next point shines 369 - the Civil Procedure Code.]] On the one hand, we are still talking about the enforcement of the law, especially in relation to maintenance. But I don't know why, especially in relation to maintenance. If someone owes me anything, they're supposed to pay for it. And it doesn't matter if he owes me for the baby or if I built him a bathroom. And we're still going to go in there and keep calling those poor debtors, they can't do it, they need to be wiped out as quickly as possible, they have to have accounts that they can have forty-fifty thousand on - that's the next law - as much money as possible, especially so that nothing happens to them, especially so they don't have to pay off their liabilities. Civil court order and insolvency the same. So let's approach things a little more consistently. Either we want people to fulfill their obligations, and I want them to, and in this case, I want them to, and they're not supposed to take over. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u93	Thank you. The debate will continue. Madam President Markéta Pekarová Adamová is now signed in, and Mrs Věra Kovářová will speak after her. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u94	Thank you for the floor. I have already said many in the course of the factual remarks, so I will only allow myself to add a few facts to this proposal with the opinion of TOP 09. As can be seen here from the whole debate that is going on, this is an important point of principle. We simply respect the principle that the state or its role is to ensure the enforcement of the law and at all that the individual can exercise those rights, or we see it as a principle that we defend, or some here defend that the fundamental role of the state is to provide for the role of citizens. I think that in this fundamental plane, the difference between the right and the left is well shown, and that, therefore, the dispute, in the quotation marks, or the debate, and the division is not dead. We simply do not support moving the responsibilities of the irresponsible to all the other responsible, and we think that the fundamental principle of defending rights, the enforcement of rights should outweigh and that the State should do everything in its power to do so. Of course, not only the area of enforcement but also prevention is important. Cochemic practice, as has already been mentioned here today, is unfortunately still not more widely used and is only very slowly applied in the Czech Republic. This can be improved and I think it would be appropriate to address this in particular. Controversies that often begin by causing a whole series of scars are then passed on often to the non-payment of maintenance. And not paying alimony from one of the parents is just an instrument of how to deal with the argument in quotation marks, however we all know that this is of course not a solution. Therefore, the greatest attention should be given to preventing it from happening at all until the finals, when it is not paid maintenance not because the parent does not have the money or the possibility to do so, but because he uses it as his instrument of fighting. When it says here, "What do you suggest?" so I will remind you of one of my proposals, which I have put forward, it has been a long time, but it has been greatly reproached, and especially those who today defend the principle of substitute maintenance, namely, to tighten our view of the debtor even more, and to treat as a criminal offence the nonpayment of maintenance not after four months, as is the case today, but after two months, so that the recovery can begin earlier and we can simply act, virtually. he could have done the whole enforcement process in this case. It wasn't even acknowledged. It is not this effort that we really do not move into that plane, that in a way - I do not say that we are raising, as the Minister uses, but we show them that the way to avoid our responsibilities is actually easy, or virtually. easier than it might be, and that it can also pay off in a certain way. This is a matter that we should be dealing with on a priority basis. And in this field, I don't think we have much to feel bad for anyone, just a lot more work could have been done over the last few years. We're introducing another one of many social benefits here. And as I mentioned here once before, it's just more appropriate to look at our whole robust system and see if all those doses are fulfilling their function. I would expect the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to come up with what other benefits we can cancel in this system when he introduces another one, what is necessary, when he looks at how used it is. I'd have a few tips, but I'll save it for when we replace you at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, and we can start putting this mess back together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u95	Thank you. Mrs Olga Richterová came forward with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u96	Thank you for the floor. Just very briefly, because a number of Mr Benda's comments are very valid, I will try to focus and answer it. Is your colleague here? At least for the record, then. The point is, we don't know what the exact impact on parental relationships will be. That's exactly what I asked the secretary. And what I wanted to say here for the record is that I very much support Mrs Aulická's proposal to give an accompanying resolution on the evaluation in two years' time. That would seem absolutely essential to me. And if I may, Mr. Benda. The point is, there are two groups of parents. And I was talking about it myself, that as far as paying alimony is concerned, there is a clear relationship between allowing myself to participate in raising and paying alimony. That's for sure. That's why I've been saying about these systemic steps, how it needs to be supported since the start of the partner's difficulties, and all the OSPODs and the like are supposed to be very focused on it. [[11.30 hours]] On the other hand, there's a group of poor parents, and that's what you've been talking about, and there are often bad relationships. And I'm in those different Facebook groups where women in particular deal with it. And I'll tell you the sentence: I know he doesn't have much, but I've got the nutritious thing to do, he should pay me, so let him pay me. - And these are groups where it would improve relationships again, because even if the woman knows that the partner doesn't have the money, but she's got it all figured out, she just wants it. It's okay, the baby needs them. And in the moment -- and it's good to see the scales next to each other -- when we don't know how it works in that company, it's right to have a big campaign for me to pay maintenance is normal, to have a big education from the bottom that's going on continuously, but I would still strengthen it to those relationships between partners, to just not be thwarted by the intercourse, as it's technically called --
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u97	[[He's coming in.]] I'm sorry, Madame, time's up. Thank you. Mr Aleš Juchelka came forward with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u98	Thank you. Only to Mrs Richterová through you. If the state pays an advance maintenance mommy who puts her partner in court or asks for an execution, it certainly doesn't improve their relationship. You can trust me on that. Otherwise, it is obvious that we agree in some way on these preventive matters, we certainly agree that some mediation should work, so that the courts decide a little bit as if in favour of those who take care of the children, because we really have, from an average salary of CZK 7,124, I suspect, two children under 14 years of age, which is of course little. And I just want to keep talking about the fact that when there's rhetoric going on here, like Mr Dolínek, through Mr President, it's like we're still doing it for those kids, and that the poor kids, etc., we're talking that we're doing it for those parents, and the other one is irresponsible. The parent gets the advance maintenance on his account, and he's gonna deal with it. And the arguments of those poor kids, etc... I understand where you're going, but let's not lie to each other and say things the way they really are. Poor parent - Mrs Richterová. We have a whole welfare system. A parent who stays absolutely without funds is alone as a single parent, gets an encore for living or a living supplement, can go for extra immediate help, child allowance gets etc., there are a number of different social benefits.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u99	[[He's coming in.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, time's up. Thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on this bill, respectively. To the novel. I must respond to the Minister and say that the division of two camps was not entirely accurate. I think there are three camps. And we as mayors and independents belong to that third camp. We will support this proposal, but we say that the whole system needs to be changed, and it is a pity that Minister Benešová is not here today, because this amendment is not only related to the competences of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but above all to what she is doing, virtually. What the Justice Department didn't do. I think it can be said that, in principle, there are now two procedures where maintenance is not paid. The first procedure may result in the recovery of the maintenance due and is an application for recovery of the maintenance due either by the court or through the judicial executor. The second step is the criminal penalty for non-payment of the debtor's maintenance, which is not primarily intended for the recovery of the debtor's maintenance, but for the punishment of the debtor's parent who does not pay the maintenance, and is intended to act preventively in order to avoid payment in the future, which in practice does not work. And that's the question for the Justice Department, what it did to make the low enforcement at least reasonable. And I would have expected this step to come in connection with the approval of this amendment, or even before this proposal. And it turns out that these methods of enforcement and the existing legislation have many pitfalls to deal with, unfortunately, with the regulation of the law, and that, as we see, could be a problem here. Parents have the responsibility for their children, that is an indisputable fact, and the State should not assume that responsibility. However, if creditors, one of the parents, actively take all the steps that the current system and legislation offer them and still fail to solve, it is the responsibility of the state and the state should address these obstacles and problems. And this shows up, and I repeat - the instruments are definitely inadequate and there are many obstacles and pitfalls to be solved. Even if we support this law, taking responsibility for the state's parents can really be counterproductive. Perhaps I would comment here on what a number of colleagues have said about the problems that arise when parents are divorcing, the consequences that the willingness to pay maintenance can have on divorce itself. And I think it's important to ask if there's any way to prevent it. It is, of course, always an individual matter. Each of you knows examples of good practice, but also practice bad. And I ask why it is not possible and why it no longer works throughout the Republic so called. Cochemian practice. Some non-profit organizations already apply this in cooperation e.g. at the District Court in Most, where there is a Service family project, and it is based on this cochemský model, where the effort before the divorce proceedings is through education, mediation, etc. to try to reach an agreement between parents and prevent the great conflict and the hostility and hatred. And then you have to ask why it doesn't work all over the Republic. That, Madam Secretary, is not what I'm asking you, but it would rather be a question of Mrs. Minister Benešová. What I also see as a problem, and I think it has already been said that debtors are still asking whether they can pay, and creditors have to take care of children today and every day, and no one asks them how they do it. And, of course, as a result of this, the loans and the deepening of the problems and the burden of the family are, which, of course, has an impact, ultimately, on the children. Another problem that I see here, and again from the Ministry of Justice, that there is a need to harmonise the caselaw. Existing tables that help determine maintenance are one of the functional tools, but what is important is the need to set up a unified methodology for judges. And there we see another big problem that has to do with the fact that there are problems with the payment of maintenance. I'm sure you know a lot of cases where it hasn't been well decided. I'm not aiming at all the judges, but the problem isn't what they're talking about. [[11.40 hours]] One example for all. Mother with two children, the maintenance judge reduced from CZK 2,600 to CZK 1,200. Children aged 7 and 11 years. The judge justified this reduction, with children growing up, so Mommy has more time to work more. And now I don't want the judges to feel offended, but I think there are a number of cases like this. Of course, it is not about mothers who receive nutritious but also fathers. So here I think it should be the change in legislation, the methodology for judges, their education, and I definitely think it would be a great success. Another problematic point is the prevention that has been mentioned here, the increase in parental competences and also the change in thinking. Last but not least, it's punishing a maintenance guy if he gets into jail, of course. I think that the criminal repression is very closely linked to the debt issue. And in most cases debts are in the order of hundreds of thousands, mostly about 300,000 crowns. Unconditionally incarcerated, debtors should be punished only in exceptional cases. The costs of driving, the cost of being in prison, overcrowded prisons, and in the finals, and actually punishing children, because the child will certainly not get a better standard of living by this means, but has a criminal from one parent. Therefore, I would assume that it will be found and used by the appropriate instrument such as community service, just to give the debtor a conditional sentence with supervision, with the obligation to pay the debt in full. And of course, the question, and I know that this is explosive, avoiding benefits for the debtor within a wide range of options. So if we were to allow and in cooperation with the municipalities, we would give debtors the opportunity to work in the so-called. Public works, I think it would also be a good solution, and it would help to resolve a number of conflicts. Finally, several other comments. I think the groups that are here are very different. I mean, the bad guys. Those who don't want to pay, those who can't pay, but they'd like to pay, but of course, and that's the result of divorce anabassis, those who don't want to pay their ex-wife or ex-husband. And quite finally, in addition to wishing to change the whole system in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, let me say that the co-responsibility of some parents for children has ceased to be normal. And that doesn't change any legislation. Thinking in society must change. And so I hope that what has been said here, the reservations, could contribute to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u101	Thank you and factual remarks will first respond to Mrs Helena Válková, then Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u102	Thank you. I'm sorry, I guess I haven't heard the last two sentences of my previous speaker, but otherwise this time I can sign what Mrs Kovářová said, really everything, because it's such a systematic overview of the failings. At the same time, I also respond by your means, of course, Mr President, to Mrs Adamová Pekarová's bit of a sneaky and seemingly legitimate remark that I, too, as former Minister of Justice, had my part in this. If you look at those documents, you can see that one of the main objectives when I came to the Justice Department was the reform of the custody justice system. And after 13 months, we started the meeting, but when I left, I couldn't finish it. So I agree with you, that's a big cutback, and we haven't been able to get rid of it yet, but within the framework of the government agenda as an agent, we have created working units that deal with it, we're in contact with the observatory judges. And I agree with the fact that Cochemská's practice, which is very successfully applied in Most, is precisely the judge that I spoke about in connection with another bill, the child's Ombudsman, Dr. Beneš, if I am not mistaken, is an example of the fact that when a guardian judge is able to, and he told us incredible numbers, if I don't get it wrong now, about 90 or 85 percent of those divorcing or arguing parents are after the application of this technique, or the technique, and the mode of mediation, let's call it a little bit simpler - thank you. [[President: Madam, time is up.]] - able to make a deal without needing a court order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u103	Thank you. Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, with a point of fact. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u104	Thank you, Mr President. I would just add to my colleague Válková and my colleague, who also spoke about this, precisely the Cochemian practice, because we really are a shining example in Most, although we did not start it, but we had about two years ago in the Ústí Region, where we invited representatives of the Liberec Region, both the courts and the OSPODs, and where we were just trying to promote the Cochemian practice system. The problem with the system is that the judges have to come to this voluntarily, which we think, and some really have to do that, they just don't want to go to the system, it's very difficult for them at first, and we also see who is actually going to be doing social aid. Because in many cases there should be a function of judge, OSPOD respectively, and other precisely supportive assistance in the context of social assistance, whether in nonprofit organizations or others. And that's where I think that even the courts aren't in any way, and then there's the problem of some sort of coordination or entering into it. Anyway, we really see what was said here that when parents go through the Cochemian practice, there really is no problem with paying child support, virtually. with nutritious. And here I would just point out what happened at that meeting, where our judges really, to a large extent, often contradicted the conclusions of the OSPOD, virtually. from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. And that's where we see the big problem, where, in fact, there are fundamental things that don't work in that system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u105	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? Nobody's checking in, I'm done with the debate. Interested in the final words? It's not. It is 11 o'clock 48 minutes, the ANO MP's club has requested a 15-minute break. The break will follow now, we will meet again in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u106	Have a nice noon. There has been a pause for the ANO meeting before the vote, so I will call the Members to the Chamber. We therefore have a first vote immediately, and it is a motion for rejection. I'm gonna reengage. We will take the vote. There's an application for a check-out, so I'll check you all out, sign up again with your voting cards. So we have a motion to dismiss. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of rejection? Who's against rejection? In the vote order number 314 entered 97 Members, for 15, against 27. The motion to dismiss was rejected. We will proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, to introduce us to the voting procedure, then to the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. And the Minister will also give us an opinion. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the resolution issued by the Committee on Social Policy on 4 November and delivered to Members as House Press 898/3, which also includes a motion for a vote. Resolution of the Committee on Social Policy of the 59th meeting of 4 November 2020 on the Government's bill of replacement maintenance for the careless child and on the amendment of certain related laws, the Act on replacement maintenance, Parliament's press 898. The Social Policy Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic as a guarantee committee after discussing the draft law after second reading first recommends The Chamber of Deputies will vote in the third reading on the draft bill under House press 898/2 in the following order: We have already voted on the proposal to reject the law. It has not been adopted, so we should vote on proposals for legislative technical amendments under Section 95 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure presented at third reading. Furthermore, the two amendments by Mrs Richterová, as the first SD 6264 MEP, as the second SD 6265 and finally vote on the bill as a whole. Thirdly, it instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies at the third reading of the bill; Fourthly, it instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u108	Thank you. First we vote if we agree to the procedure. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote order number 315 registered 100 Members, for 99, against none. The draft procedure has been accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u109	Thank you. As no legislative technical amendments have been tabled, we will vote on the amendment, as I said, Mrs Richterová SD 6264. Its content is that in § 4 para. 1 the amount of 3,000 is replaced by the words 0,78 times the minimum life of the individual. The Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u110	The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote serial number 316 registered 99 Members, for 24, against none. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u111	Next, we will also vote on the amendment by Mrs Richterová SD 6265. Its content is that the length of payment is extended to 24 months. The Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u112	The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 317 99 Members registered, for 20, against 13. The motion was denied. If I am correctly marked, did we vote on all the amendments?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u113	Yes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u114	All proposals were therefore voted on. We will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's proposal for a law on replacement maintenance for a careless child and on the amendment of certain related laws, according to House press 898, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies.' [[Act on supplementary maintenance]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 318, 99 Members registered, for 81, against 18. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you, Minister, thank you, rapporteur. [[Ambassador Bauer wants to get off.]] Yes, please. To the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u115	Mr Vice-President, only for the Steno Protocol. I voted in favour of the 314 vote. I'm late for high school. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-003-360.u116	Thank you and we'll move on to the next point and that's
