ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-28-ps2017-047-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 47th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you to sign up with the ID cards and, if necessary, to tell me who votes with the replacement card. Vice-President Filip votes with a replacement card 24, Mrs Valachová with a replacement card number 22, Mr Beitl with a replacement card number 26. I called this meeting following the provisions of Section 109m of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of a proposal from the Government to express the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the period of emergency. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I'll ask you all to remain calm, please take your seats in the hall. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail - Mr Bartoš votes with replacement card number 21 - on Friday 24 April. We would now first proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Jana Černochová and Mr Leo Luzar. Mr Feri votes with replacement card number 27, Mr Ferjenčík with replacement card number 15. I'm asking if anyone else has a proposal for verifiers. I don't see anyone. So I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's vote number two - I'll explain right away. It's registered 94 for 91, no one. The motion was accepted. I accidentally started voting number one when I checked out, so it was confusing and we will not start today for the tape screen until the vote number two. I note that we have appointed a Member of the Chamber of Deputies for the 47th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Jana Černochová and Mr Leo Luzar. I further communicate what has already been agreed at the previous meetings. We'll sit in a reduced number. All those who are not present at the moment are deemed to be excused under the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs. Ladies and gentlemen, on 12 March this year, the Government, in accordance with Article 5 and 3 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on the safety of the Czech Republic, has declared an emergency situation for a maximum period of 30 days for the territory of the Czech Republic due to health risks in connection with the demonstration of the occurrence of coronavirus referred to as SARS CoV-2 in the territory of the Czech Republic. The Chamber of Deputies subsequently extended the duration of the emergency until 30 April 2020 at its 43rd meeting on 7 April with its resolution number 1012. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 Constitutional Act No.110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, the Government may extend the period for declaring emergency status only after the prior consent of the Chamber of Deputies. On 24 April this year, the government asked the Chamber of Deputies to extend the emergency period in connection with the SARS Cov-2 epidemic until 25 May this year. According to Article 109m (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) The Chamber of Deputies shall decide on such a proposal in abridged procedure. We will now proceed to our own agenda of the 47th meeting, as shown on the invitation. For all who are not yet familiar with the agreement of the Gremium. The Grémium proposes to include three new points on the agenda. It is the Government's information on the release of restrictive measures taken by the Government, the Government's information on the purchase of protective equipment during emergency conditions, and there is a proposal for the inclusion of point Revokation of Resolution No 1103 of 22. 4. to interrupt paragraph 45. of the Chamber of Deputies meeting on the release and purchase of protective equipment, as we have interrupted these points until 5. 5. If we want to discuss them today, we must first revise this resolution. It then proposes that these points be listed as follows: firstly, the emergency situation, secondly, the revision of Resolution No 1103 of 22. 4. 2020, thirdly, government information to release restrictive measures, fourthly, government information to purchase protective equipment. So that's all from the Gremium. I hope there is an agreement that no further proposals will be made on the agenda. We can therefore now vote on this proposed agenda as proposed by Gremie. Or maybe a new score first? [[She's turning to an employee of the organizational department.]] First, just to make sure the new points are listed as I read them. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the three new points and the order, as agreed by the Gremium. Who's against it? Voting number 3, registered 102, for 101, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will therefore now vote on the full proposal for the 47th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 4, 100 Members registered, for 97, against no one. The agenda has been approved. With the replacement card number 28, Mr Roman Onderka votes, with the replacement card number 23 votes Mr Volný. In accordance with the approved agenda, I am opening an item
