ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-002-477.u1	477. Motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies laying down rules for videoconferencing during meetings of committees and commissions of the Chamber of Deputies /Department document 5113/ House document 5113 is a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies laying down rules for the organisation of videoconferencing during meetings of committees and commissions of the Chamber of Deputies. We interrupted this item in the general debate on 6 May this year at the 45th meeting and we adjourned it until the debate on the Constitutional and Legal Committee. It is the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies 1118 from the 45th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I will ask the President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček to take up his seat at the rapporteur's table. At the same time, I note that the Constitutional and Legal Committee discussed document 5113 and his resolution was delivered as House document 5704. I would, of course, ask an appointed member of the Constitutional and Legal Committee to inform us of the committee's deliberations or to present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. My colleague, Marek Benda, is present, and since I have no one listed here to present the opinion of the committee on behalf of the committee, I will ask the President of the Constitutional Legal Committee of Marek Benda directly to comment on document 5704, which means the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee, expressing and commenting on it. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-002-477.u2	Mr Vice-President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you know that in the spring, before the holidays, we interrupted the discussion of the document tabled by the President. He was ordered to the constitutionally-legal committee, which dealt with him on June 10th, so it doesn't depend on us, it hangs on the House, which didn't get to this material. We have tried to adjust the material in a way - and so we are presenting it to you - which is based on the original points of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, this is the possibility of remote participation in the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies, except, of course, the plenary, committees, committees, or subcommittees and other bodies, but it will be made clear that this can only be done in situations of a serious crisis, provided that the President of the House declares this situation after consultation in the political grémium and then, on that basis, the President of the competent authority. The rest are basically just technical modifications, but we were just trying not to start putting in a long-term practice that we would stop coming here and report from a distance. I find that really inappropriate. I think that the constitutional authorities must act as constitutional bodies and meet physically and directly. One more proposal will then be made by colleague Michálek. This came about only after the constitutional-legal committee has been held, and I say for myself that I am prepared to identify myself with this proposal, and I think that we can - of course, I cannot withdraw the resolution of the constitutional-legal committee, but if we vote on it only as a counterproposal, then there is - my colleague Michálek will undoubtedly present it himself - only to make certain improvements and additions, and then I think that we can vote on it and that we can, for a time when we have some pandemic situation where special emergency measures are announced, have solutions that will allow us to meet remotely at the House of Deputies and at the same time make decisions so that it is in accordance with our Rules of Procedure and could work otherwise than how it has worked. Last comment, my personal: all I've experienced so far in video conference is hell rather than negotiation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-002-477.u3	Thank you. President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-002-477.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will be very brief because we are looking forward to other points that representatives of political clubs are looking forward to. We have gathered here for this on May 6, 2020, the House has included it in its 49th, 54th, 58th and 62th meetings. There's been no discussion. Thank you for making it out now, for finding the moment. I'll take the luxury of quoting myself from April. I said at the time, "Thank God we're not in such an emergency situation that we really have to accept it." The material should really be more in the future, and I am in favour and I have no problem with the discussion going on. Before the material arrived, it was available to all committee chairmen, they could apply their comments, then the material went to all members of the parliamentary clubs. Then we agreed to interrupt anyway, and it went to the constitutionally-legal committee, which basically offered itself. The discussion took place there, there was a wider consensus. Now there is still a proposal from the Pirate Party in the system, which makes the resolution even more technical. It's not a major problem. I'm going back to the quote. I will be able to wish if we do not need this resolution again soon, but it has turned out that this situation may simply be possible compared to April. I will ask all of you to support us for this resolution and for us to have some rules for the videoconferencing meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-002-477.u5	Thank you. Mr. Jakub Michálek will be next. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-002-477.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the President for submitting a motion for a resolution which addresses certain technical problems associated with the participation of Members at the time of the coronation of committees. I think that's a step in the right direction. We have focused only on specifying certain parts concerning, for example, remote participation, certain technical aspects in order for a Member who announces this in time and is in quarantine to be able to participate in the committee so that the committee's deliberations are representative. The motion for a resolution which we are presenting - and it is also consulted by Mrs Pastuchová from the ANO and the ODS colleagues, and I have sent it to all club presidents and I think that there is quite agreement - that House document 6965, which was sent on 1 December, so that the deadline for reading the draft autonomous resolution is fulfilled, is essentially distinguished by the fact that there is precisely a distant participation and that the regime is maintained there, basically based on the draft constitutionally-legal committee, the regime which the President of the Chamber of Deputies declares is maintained there, and therefore, under that regime, the committee chairman will accept it if he announces 48 hours in advance. I think this is adequately solved. Then there are some technical details as to how it is verified, how the Member is present according to the real-time facial image, with the fact that he predicts that if we have a more sophisticated system in the future, for example, connected to electronic signatures, we can also use it without having to amend this resolution in the future. We have retreated from the original intention that, in the case of quarantine, even remote participation in the Chamber of Deputies' negotiations, so we will not submit the amendment because there was no consensus. Thank you for your attention and considering the support of this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-002-477.u7	Thank you. President Marian Jurečka will now appear, after whom will President Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-002-477.u8	Thank you. Good morning, Mr President, Minister, Madam Secretary, fellow Members. I think that for us, behind the KDU-ČSL, we clearly support the possibility when there is such a difficult situation and in the future it can be repeated so that there is a possibility and there are clear rules for negotiations also through online transmissions and videoconferencing connections. [[11.10 hours]] However, I would like to mention one more thing here, and I would also like to ask the representative of the House's leadership and then colleagues who go to the Grémium or the Organizing Committee, if it would not be possible for this House to create such a capacity, so that the video footage from our meetings will have a longer period of storage on the server for the public than it is today. I think that it is possible to create the capacity for one parliamentary term to always be traceable, and that audio from the meeting in the hall could also be turned on, that it is technically possible. I don't think it's so complicated that we don't make it within the budget. Today it's only a few days backwards that you can turn on the video footage. Yes, people can look at the screen, they can read it, but sometimes they can see the continuity and the situation as it was happening in the House, it's not as authentic as the possibility of going backwards for a year back on some important point. So I'd like to ask if it's technically possible to check this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-002-477.u9	Thank you. Madam President Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-002-477.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to intercede in favour of voting for the option put forward by President Michálek here, because in the original motion for a resolution, I must say, I consider it a very problematic point number 4, which states that the committee's meetings are usually not public. I think from the nature of the matter, that if we were not in a pandemic state, if we did not have to follow the necessary measures, the committees are always public. On the contrary, we are very grateful that the public is interested in them, whether professional or lay, so we should also try to invite the public to participate in the exceptional situations that are now taking place. I know it's technically not that simple, but it can be dealt with, I'm sure it's always solvable. And we should have the utmost will to make our actions as transparent as possible. I think an example of how the confusing vote and so on has recently been dealt with here in the Committee on the Environment has shown us that it is good to have this issue formulated quite clearly in this resolution. And the resolution proposed by Mr Michálek addresses this. That is why I am intercede in favour of approving this resolution, not the original one that has been proposed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-002-477.u11	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? Mrs. Kovářová reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-002-477.u12	Hello, esteemed colleagues. On the basis of communication with some organisations, and I can appoint here the Union of Towns and Communities, the Association of Local Authorities and others that have asked to participate at least remotely at the Committee's meetings, because it is often in the Public Administration Committee about laws to which they have something to say, and I think that this is not just a case of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, but also of the Committee on the Environment or the Committee on Agriculture, so that they can communicate their views to Members at least through the remote approach. So if we are voting this resolution today, I think it will be good news for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-002-477.u13	Thank you. Is there any further interest in the speech in the general debate? No. I am ending the general debate. There won't be any final words. I am opening the debate in detail. Anyone reporting for a detailed debate? Chairman Jakub Michálek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-002-477.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I refer to House document 6965, which lays down rules for the conduct of meetings of the House's institutions through videoconferencing and remote participation as an autonomous resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. It is a proposal with which I introduced some time ago the President of the Members' Clubs, which is based on the draft resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee and complements it with several other aspects.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-002-477.u15	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? No one is to be heard in detail, and I am ending the debate in detail. The rapporteur role was taken by the President of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Member Marek Benda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-002-477.u16	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we have two possible votes. The first thing we should probably vote on is the draft House document 6965, which is the amended wording of Mr Michálek, which, in fact, to clarify, does only one thing against the original text, in addition to text editing, when the President of the institution decides that it is a direct participation of the President, not distance, so those who are in quarantine can sign up to work remotely. That's the only change. Otherwise, it's the same as it was in the original proposal. If the President of the institution - with the consent of the President of the House, of course - decides that it is the distance of the institution, then it is possible for everyone to take part. I recommend that we support this proposal, in agreement with the majority of the club members, and therefore the vote on the original proposal will be ruled out. If such a proposal had not passed, we would have voted on the original proposal from the Constitutional and Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-03-ps2017-072-03-002-477.u17	Thank you. [[He's starting the gong.]] Copy that. I don't know if I understand this as a draft procedure, but I think what the President of the Constitutional and Legal Committee has said is clear and consistent with the draft legislation that I have here, so hopefully there is no other option. I've called the MPs to the ballroom. I think we're ready for the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 98. Ninety-nine Members registered, for 92, against no one. The proposal has been adopted, and at this point, there is no further vote on it. Thank you. [[Mr Benda: This precludes voting on the second proposal and concludes the item. Thank you.]] Yes. I thank the President of the Constitutional and Legal Committee and conclude this item. Now we're going to go with point number
