ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-001-004.u1	4. The draft law amending Act No. 137/2020 Coll., on certain adjustments in the field of sales records in connection with the announcement of emergency status / House printing 849/2/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution has been delivered to us as House Press 89/3 and you have information on the amendments in your mail. I welcome Senator Vladislav Vilímec among us and I ask that the Vice-President of the Government and Finance Minister Alena Schillerová speak for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled. Madam Secretary, please take your word for it. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-001-004.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you of the bill amending Act No. 137/2020 Coll., on certain adjustments in the field of sales records in connection with the announcement of an emergency state. That law was adopted in response to the announcement of an emergency because of the spread of COVID-19 disease and measures which significantly restrict the pursuit of business activities. According to the current wording of that Act, the registration obligation shall be abolished until three months after the end of the emergency period. The emergency has ended on May 17, 2020. Therefore, the full start-up of the sales record should take place from 19 August 2020, with taxpayers having three months to prepare, start-up, and possibly restarting the registration of sales, including the collection of authentication data and the block of receipts at the Financial Authority. In the light of current developments in the scope of the economic impact on business operators, it is proposed that taxpayers should not be burdened with additional administrative obligations for a longer period than the content of the original law and that is why it is proposed to extend the period during which taxpayers are not obliged to fulfil their registration obligations until the end of 2020. The obligation to record sales and the obligation to place information notifications will apply again from 1 January 2021, with taxpayers having three months before that date to prepare for the start or restart of the registration obligation, both those who have registered the sales before the start of the emergency situation and need, for example, to apply for new authentication data for the record of sales or to register in a special scheme, and those who are obliged to record the sales arising from the launch of the last stage of the sales record, i.e. ensuring sufficient space to prepare for the registration of sales under normal arrangements, or requesting authorisation to register sales under special arrangements. However, the Senate returned the proposal to the Chamber of Deputies with an amendment according to which it would be called. The third and fourth stages of the sales registration were not started until 1 July 2023. The Ministry of Finance cannot, through my person, agree to this change because it is contrary to the principles on which the system of sales records is based. The aim of the sales record is to set up a business environment that is not possible if part of the entrepreneurs receiving cash sales are required to register and not part of it. At present, entrepreneurs who are already obliged to record their sales point to inequality between them and those who do not yet have to register. Even for entrepreneurs who fall into the third and fourth stages of sales records, the postponement of the obligation to register sales by the end of 2020 is sufficient room for preparation for registration. Allow me to ask for your support from the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-001-004.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary, and please let Senator Vladislav Vilímec take the floor. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-001-004.u4	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Madam Vice-President of the Government, honourable Members, I have been charged with the resolution of the Senate of 13 May 2020 with a justification for the return of the bill amending Act No. 137/2020 Coll., on certain adjustments in the field of sales records in connection with the announcement of an emergency state. The Senate adopted amendments to this bill and thus returned this bill to renegotiate and re-decision to the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to say one thing that this law dealt with the Senate twice in a short time, as well as the Chamber of Deputies. For the first time at the end of March, there were serious concerns that the proposal, as designed, was not sufficient to define the suspension of electronic sales records, and that three weeks later the amendment of the law would come. This really happened and we could forgive ourselves for the double discussion of basically one and the same law. For the first time, it was also mentioned in the Senate that the deadline for the renewal of those suspended registration obligations was set very vaguely, indeterminately, only in relation to the declared state of emergency. You know that the emergency has been prolonged several times, and the government has come up with an extension of the individual deadlines. In one case, this applies until 30 September of this year and in the case of the actual registration obligation and the obligation to place those information statements, so that applies until 31. 12th of this year. The Minister used, if I have noted correctly, the term that the Senate proposes the launch of the so-called "Senator" 3rd and 4th waves up to 1. 7. 2023. It's not like that. This is precisely the charm of the present almost inconspicuous situation and the utter incomprehensibleness of the current wording of the law, which was changed by the verdict of the Constitutional Court and by Act 256/2019 Coll., and when you look at the bill, the ordinary person, and the entrepreneur, apart from that, does not really know what is true and what does not apply. The Minister also mentioned a term that is not entirely accurate. We do not propose to postpone or launch the third and fourth wave 1. 7. 2023 - for one simple reason that the third and fourth wave was launched in the course of the declared emergency on May 1st without being observed and almost mysteriously. This is hardly acceptable to the Senate. Because few of those who have the obligation of May 1, 2020 are aware that the obligation has arisen. Because she was actually covered by the suspension, and I don't think we should do that in legislation. [[15.40 hours]] Moreover, in the reasoning of both the first and the second, the amendment to the first law, the petitioner states that it is necessary to give entrepreneurs or taxpayers who fall into the individual waves the opportunity to breathe, to overcome the current crisis situation, because they have other concerns than dealing with the electronic record of sales under the Electronic Recording of Sales Act. So the Senate did what I believe the government should have done legislatively at the very beginning. He completed the special law, which is not a direct amendment to the Act on Electronic Recording of Sales, by the amendment of the law in that part of the second on Electronic Recording of Sales. By renewing Section 37 of the Act, which was repealed in the meantime on 1 May, yes, it proposes temporarily - and now I will use the exact term - to temporarily exempt those taxpayers from the EET obligation to whom this obligation arose on 1 May 2020. And we're proposing it for two and a half years. If we compare it to a government proposal, it's a two-year extension. This means that those who fall into the so-called third and fourth wave would, according to the government's proposal, most of the obligations - I say most of the obligations - would not have to comply with electronic sales records by 31. 12. 2020. According to the Senate bill, it would be two and a half years longer. This is a merit of the Senate proposal. I really consider the proposal to be very reasonable and in relation to the arguments that the Minister usually makes and were mentioned at a time when we were debating the launch of electronic sales records at all. It is important to realize who actually falls into the third and fourth waves. Even the naming of the third and fourth waves is also inaccurate because there is no third and fourth wave. There's only one wave left. So who falls into this wave? If you look into the law, all the taxpayers who do not fall into the first wave and the second wave fall into it. That's what the law says. And mostly it concerns craftsmen's trades, services, certain services, but also doctors or lawyers. You know, the idea that, in this time of crisis and long after, by introducing an electronic sales record obligation, we will get something into public budgets from electricians, plumbers and other such services or these craftsmen's activities, which suffer from a lack of personnel at all, is purely illusionary. I don't want to debate the benefits of electronic sales records for a long time. You're debating this very often here in the Chamber of Deputies. But the third and fourth wave, or the last wave, even from that public budget benefit point of view, is very controversial. She's almost as if she can't bring anything. In my opinion, even power cannot be used in the case of electricians, plumbers or painters and others, as well as in such a highly overused term that it will contribute to the smoothing of the market environment. I don't know how electricians and plumbers that are desperate for lack can grossly disrupt the market environment. I consider that plain nonsense. I would indeed ask you, honourable Members, to bring this Senate back with reasonable amendments - and I really am not only here as a representative of the Senate, but as a person who actually proposed this amendment, so I am personally behind this proposal. And I would ask you to support this proposal, because by doing so, you will actually give reasonable room to those who have been badly affected by forced government measures and, on the one hand, give reasonable room for the government to evaluate the benefits of electronic sales records at a time-limit, whether this or another government, and decide without any pressure, time pressure, whether the third and fourth waves will actually start, and not just de iure. I think the two-and-a-half-year delay is a great help to individual trades, but also to doctors. I mean, everyone knows, I'm not a health professional, but everyone knows and knows how desperately practical doctors don't get in the country or even dentists. And these are often people of retirement age, and they should deal with electronic sales records in a very short time. Answer me how it would have turned out. In many cases, it could turn out in such a way that they simply shut down their practices. And once again, the citizens would lose on it. So I know this proposal won't like the Minister, I'm sure. Nevertheless, I would ask you, honourable Members, to support me. Because it's actually good for the government. It is not only advantageous for the individual craft activities, but it is also advantageous for the government, because it can save the time needed for a really thorough analysis of what the electronic record of sales actually brought or did not bring. I don't want to give the figures here on tax collection, for example, from the income of individuals paid by taxpayers. If you look at the years 2016 to 2019, I'm not talking about this year, of course, so you won't find any tangible proof that it would bring anything. Because the collection of this tax, even knowing that the item is such that, in relation to this item, they also charge tax returns, but when you look at 2016, there was no such big difference in the tax collection for 2019. So I'm very careful in some success electronic sales log. There's one more thing I'd like to say. The Senate does not propose the abolition of electronic sales records because it seemed brave in a situation of declared legislative emergency, but suggests a reasonable delay for those who were actually affected by the current situation. Therefore, I would ask you once again, despite the negative position of the petitioner, Madam Secretary of Finance, to take this into account in your vote and support this Senate proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-001-004.u5	Thank you, Mr. Senator. And before I open the debate, I ask if the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee wants to comment on the Senate resolution, that was the Committee on Budgets, that is, Mrs Miroslava Vostrá. He doesn't want to express himself. So I'm opening up a debate. No one is enrolled in the debate. Anyone from the scene? He's not reporting. So I'm done with the debate. Interested in the final words? [[The secretary's making it clear she's not.]] So I called Members and Members to the Chamber and we will slowly proceed to the vote pursuant to Section 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr. Kubíček reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-001-004.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like a five-minute recess for an ANO meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-001-004.u7	Yes. So I'm declaring a break, five minutes for an ANO meeting. That means we'll continue at 15.54 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-26-ps2017-049-01-001-004.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, the time for the ANO parliamentary club is over, and we will continue. I heard an application for check-out before the break, so I'm gonna check you all out. Please log in with your voting cards again. I will now make a motion for a resolution which requires the approval of an absolute majority of Members present. "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 137/2020 Coll., on certain adjustments in the field of sales records in connection with the announcement of emergency status, according to the Chamber of Press 849/2, as approved by the Senate, according to the Chamber of Press 849/3.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 26, 186 Members registered, for 84, against 82. I note that we have not accepted the bill as approved by the Senate. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. The number of votes required is set. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 137/2020 Coll., on certain adjustments in the field of sales records in connection with the declaration of emergency status, as amended by the Senate, according to the House's Press 849/2.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 27, 188 Members signed in for 185, against no one. I state that we have adopted the bill. Thank you, Mr. Senator. Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'm done discussing this point. We will continue to discuss the point that we have included in the agenda for the meeting in this place. This is a point called
