ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Welcome, everyone, to the conference room. At this point, I am forced to take a break until 9.05 hours, due to the absence of ministers. So as long as the ministers aren't present, at least one, we're not opening. [[Act suspended from 9.01. to 9.06.]] Madam, honourable Members, honourable Member of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 40th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you here. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out, and I would like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. Mr Feranec votes with voting card number 21. I declare that the reasons for not taking part in today's proceedings have been asked by these Members: Mr Lukáš Kolářík for family reasons, Mr Vondráček Radek - working grounds, Adamec Ivan - working grounds, Běhounek Jiří - Venhoda Petr, Bělobrák Pavel - Válková Helena, Levová volný - Lubomír grounds, Bláha Jiří - Vít Vácha, Bojko Marian - family František, Bžoch Jaroslav from 14.30 to 18 hours - Rakušan reasons, Čižínskpávek Petr - Vondrák Ivo, Farský Jan from 13 hours to 23.30 hours without reason, Matyášová Eva - medical reasons, Jelínek Pavel - medical reasons, Juříček Pavel from 14.30 to 19 hours Petr Vrána Ladislav, Kalous Adamová - family Václav, Kasal David - medical reasons, Kobza Jiří - family reasons, Kohoutek Martin - family reasons, Marcela Robert within 11 hours - Třešňák Michálek, Krejza Karel - personal Schwarzenberg, Krázza Jakub - health reasons, Kateková Hourková Hourk. Government members: Babiš Andrej - personal reasons, Brabec Richard within 10 hours - health reasons, Dostálová Klára - working reasons, Hamáček Jan within 10 hours - working reasons, Havlíček Karel - foreign trip, Metnar Lubomír - foreign trip, Petříček Tomáš within 11 hours and from 14.30 hours - working reasons, Plaga Robert - working reasons, Toman Miroslav - foreign trip, Vojtěch Adam - foreign trip. Mrs Balcarová - replacement card number 22. Today's meeting will begin at paragraph 291, which are the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted within 11 hours at the latest, and they will then be drawn. So we're going to go ahead and talk about this.
