ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u1	1. Proposal for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the period of emergency To this point, you have received the House document 7056. I ask the Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to present the proposal. Please, Prime Minister, take the floor. Quiet in the hall, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. If you have anything to discuss, please go to the foyer. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u2	Hello, thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you for the third time this autumn with a request for an extension of the emergency situation. The state of emergency may have a depressing effect on people. I'd call it a state of aid. A state of aid that threatens the health of our fellow citizens. I am aware that none of the citizens, nor any of us, nor, of course, I, alone, desire this emergency situation, and yet we must, or must, take this request before you. The reason is single and simple, and this is the fact that throughout Europe the community spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus continues, or pandemic COVID-19, and our country is no exception. So there is still a large population load of the virus across Europe, and all countries, including ours, are struggling with the disease and are trying to prevent further progression of this unhappy state by all means available. We all know that the only final solution is the vaccine, and we must, until it is available, by joint efforts to prevent the number of infected people from increasing rapidly and, in particular, to avoid the deaths of our fellow citizens, especially those of the most vulnerable groups. To do this, we must have tools that will enable us to intervene across the whole Czech Republic and which will be effective. It will continue to be necessary to control the collection, control the number of contacts between individuals and to be able to intervene actively in cases where the situation is once again out of control. Unfortunately, the latest development - and today the number for yesterday's day is not good at all. We stopped the increase of COVID-19 infected a few days ago, but unfortunately, the numbers are rising and the question is, how does it all turn out? And this, of course, is a question of the fact that the incubation period of the virus is variable, it can be 4, 5 to 10 days, and we have released on December 3rd and, of course, we have seen the effects and we will see those impacts in time. We see this as a serious situation, although the number of hospitalized people has stabilized, but we still have a considerable number of deceased people. The reproduction number has increased, so I think it's clear that we need to ask for an extension of the emergency. I'd like to explain why we need this. Well, we need it to be mainly soldiers and firefighters helping us carry out emergency measures, which means when there's a problem in the hospital or in the elderly's home or Alzeimer's home, so we're calling to help the army, the firefighter, and that's what gives us the status. That's some kind of state of law. So it's not for us to specifically restrict people, but it's mainly for us to have the opportunity to deploy soldiers who also help us track the infected, help us secure the sampling points for testing, help to ensure organization and provision of IT support systems for managing all key measures at government and health level. Thanks to the emergency situation, we can also easily, quickly and efficiently involve students, especially health and social disciplines, especially in hospitals and social services facilities where employees are missing because they are sick or in quarantine. Thanks to the emergency situation, the necessary equipment, personal protective equipment and medical devices can also be purchased more easily and more quickly. That's why we need it. When citizens associate it with some kind of repression, it certainly isn't, and we're doing it to protect their lives. It is a condition which, according to our current legal order, only allows for full protection measures to be applied. I can't imagine what would have happened if the current measures had been terminated, virtually. I can imagine that there would be an uncontrolled spread of the disease, and within ten days the capacity of hospitals would be filled again, and then there would be great damage to the health and lives of those who are most at risk, and these are, of course, our fellow citizens, especially the elderly. But the virus is a living mechanism, it's an insidious virus, it's a virus that kills, and unfortunately, we already have over 9,000 dead. The balance mainly for November is not good at all, where nearly 5,000 people died. So it's a serious situation. And while I understand that there will be a political debate here, and the whole debate about covid and the protection of the lives of our fellow citizens has turned to politics, I am terribly sorry, so even if it extends, and we do not know how long, because our government has not received the support of most of the House for extension, we are far from winning. And, of course, the number of patients doesn't fall. And the only solution, as I said, is the vaccine. There's no cure, there's nothing but a vaccine. That's my only hope, and I'll get to that. Why are we asking for an extension of the emergency situation until January 11th? That's why, and that confirms the situation, yesterday's figures, probably the numbers will still rise, so it's important that we have this condition so that we can take the measures and involve the ones I've named in particular in the measures. It's an assumption that it won't change until Christmas. Let's see if this really translates into the occupancy of the medical facilities, where our paramedics still are, and not only there, but also the caregivers in social facilities, are fighting for all of us to protect people. So we think the condition will not change until the beginning of January, which is why we dare ask for an extension of 30 days. [[14.20 hours]] The details will be discussed here by Minister Blatný, so I just want to ask that we actually have the debate on the situation and that the proposals are concrete from the opposition. If you feel that we have to do something else from the point of view of these measures, we'll be happy to know. The main thing our government is preparing is vaccination. And the vaccine is our only weapon. I would like to read here a challenge that is really relevant and very important. The whole world and also the Czech Republic are flooded with targeted disinformation reports and fake news on vaccination against COVID-19. A large proportion of the population, including some health care professionals, is subject to information. The vaccine is the only chance the company has of handling the pandemic of coronavirus. The leading Czech infectologists, vaccinologists and epidemiologists are thus calling on the medical and lay public to continue responsible behaviour and not to underestimate this disease. Together, we argue that vaccination is necessary in the long term to affect adverse epidemiological developments and to return to normal life. Doctors of infectious wards who have been fighting immediately since spring to save the lives of hundreds of patients affected by COVID-19 infection, along with vaccinationologists who are watching the growing resistance to vaccination, express deep concern about the lack of and often misleading information about vaccination in our country. Every day we see severe disability, death and tragedy in families, to the extent that a year ago it was completely unthinkable. We confirm that, despite the best efforts of scientific teams worldwide, we do not have and will soon not have an effective anti-coronavirus medicine, which continues to be characterised by exceptional contagion and insidiousness. After a year of hard work, we report deep disappointment that we have only a few auxiliary medicines available that are able to improve the prognosis of the infected by less than 10 to 20 percent, which is a desperately low number. We continue to regard the disease as a dangerous Russian roulette that seeks its victims without any greater rules. For a number of weeks in the Czech Republic, more than 100 people die from this one infection every day, and even 250 people a month ago, a number previously unthinkable for several generations of infectologists, microbiologists, or epidemiologists. This number is now significantly higher than how many victims require cancer every day. Therefore, let us conscientiously follow the anti-epidemic measures provided for. Let's use the drapes, keep the spacing, disinfect our hands, and when we can, let's get vaccinated. Now it's time to say that, of course, vaccination is better than sitting at home for months. Now it is time to say that both the efficacy and safety of the vaccine will be closely monitored. And that, of course, is the challenge that Mr. Kümpel, Plíšek, Chlíbek, Mrs. Roháčová from Bulovka signed here for the Society of Infectious Medicine. And I think it's very important, and in that regard, I'm sure our government, virtually. The Ministry of Health is going to convince the public quickly that this vaccine is the only one that at this moment, at this point, is the only solution to this insidious virus that no one in the world really knows. That's why I took this opportunity to make this appeal because I think it's really important. The vaccination strategy was presented to the government, and I asked the Minister for Health to send it to all the political parties and movements in the House to discuss it on the Health Committee, because there will certainly be a big debate and it needs to be started as soon as possible. We've also moved on to the antigen testing strategy. I think after testing seniors' homes and social services, it's the teachers' turn. I'm going to ask them to basically turn to us if in some way from their point of view it doesn't work from the point of view of the opportunity to visit the place where the tests are carried out - in terms of their possibilities, their time. Because I think it's very important for this project to be implemented so that we can protect them, of course, because it's actually, apart from the senior homes, another project that our government is implementing. But so far the interest is small, so we must try to convince our teachers that it is important not only for them but also for the children they teach. even for the parents of these children. And then from the age of 18. 12. We want to conduct voluntary testing with free antigen tests, which we want to offer to everyone who is interested. And that goal, of course, is to identify the largest carriers of the virus that have the largest viral charge that it then spreads among the population. So these are the things we plan to do. And, of course, I repeat again that this 30-day extension is important to us. This is especially important so that we can protect our fellow citizens. So I believe that we will find an understanding of the opposition and that they will support us in this. Of course, thank you for Minister Blatný to perform, although he was beaten by the classic pirát, but there's nothing we can do about it. If the pirát wanted to think about it and give space to the person in charge of the whole thing, that would be a very helpful gesture, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u3	Well, thank you, Prime Minister. Before I open the debate, there are indeed several applications with priority rights - President Rakušan already 7. 12. President Bartoš 8. 12., President Pekarová 9. 12. - after a short agreement, everyone agreed to let go of Minister Blatný, who was the first to report to my office before the meeting. It's not entirely for granted, I want to thank them for being so helpful. So, Minister, just a moment. I will read before I open the debate, remind you that according to § 109m para. In the case of a short hearing on a proposal for an extension of the emergency situation, no factual remarks may be made in the debate, the Member may speak not more than twice in the debate, and the House may decide to limit speaking time for up to five minutes, whereas the limitation of speaking time also applies to Members authorised to refer to the matter to the Member's club's opinion. I am now opening the debate. Please, Minister, you have the floor. Furthermore, we will follow the applications with the fact that neither the first performer nor the second performer can be the rapporteur, so we must then probably decide who will be the rapporteur of this matter. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to thank all those who have given up their priority right and have allowed me to complete the information on the Prime Minister's speech. And I thank you from the bottom of my heart for that, I appreciate it. Let me introduce you to the summary of the current epidemic situation. On the weekend of this week we thought, and the data indicated that the epidemic was only slowing down, that although its braking slowed down, it continued. This is not the case since the weekend and the numbers have started to rise again. I say in advance that, at the time this happened, the changes in the previous release during the last week could not yet be fully reflected, and this is a reflection of the fact that measures, as set up, were probably not fully respected. And in that case, it's logical that the change is starting to happen. It's not a criticism. At this point, it's a statement of fact. [[14.30 hours]] The reproduction number above the entire population has now slightly exceeded the value of 1, while other parameters have started to rise very slightly. These are mainly positive numbers per 100,000 inhabitants, positive numbers per 100,000 inhabitants, and positive test positives. These are also parameters that are evaluated e.g. in our PES score, but for example. and the Institute of Robert Koch and others, with whom we communicate intensively. As far as the disease problem of vulnerable groups and seniors is concerned, then let me inform you that, in absolute numbers, the intervention of senior groups showed a declining trend last week, but this has also turned around today. While the number of newly diagnosed seniors was less than 700 last week, today, for the first time, the number is higher than a thousand. As far as seniors are concerned, some 1,800 of our elderly fellow citizens living in social services have died and over 9,000 of them are covid positive. As regards the total number of diagnoses in November, if we focus on the 65+ age group, it is about 37,000 people. I'm proving it here to assure you that this is still a very risky group. With regard to the risk score that we introduced some time ago, now the fourth day is slightly above the threshold between Grades 3 and 4, namely 64 points, and part of the regions have been moving for a long time in those scoring systems higher. If we were to focus on short-term predictions of further development, then from the models that we have been using and which have been predicting very well for a long time the numbers that are subsequently occurring, we know that to 15. 12. if there is no significant change, the number of newly diagnosed persons will be between 5 and 9.5 thousand per day, at the end of the year it will be between 5 and 17 thousand newly diagnosed daily. You've noticed that it's a big spread, and it basically depends on how the epidemic is going to behave. And she will behave according to how we try to influence her and how we behave. I say quite frankly that we may think that we can control the situation, but it would be a false assumption. We can do everything we can to influence the biological process that goes across Europe in some way and to soften its impact as much as possible. None of the European countries and none of the countries around the world have achieved and are likely to be able to eliminate this epidemic completely until the vaccine is available. We need to repeat this to each other because the fact that there is a coronavirus is no one's fault, it's a biological process. When we recalibrated the predictive modeling systems, then we reached the numbers I was talking about. And for your information, these models predicted 6,000 newly infected for today. The real number is 5,800. Please consider this as proof that we are able to carry out this prediction in the order of weeks. I am also saying this because, in the end, if I, like the Prime Minister, ask for an extension of the emergency situation, I am not doing this arbitraryly, but I am doing this on the basis of data that we can assume with a great degree of probability. As far as the predictions are concerned, then the model shows that a new turning point is currently taking place, this time unfortunately it is a turning point up. As in mid-October it was a turning point down and followed by a quick drop down, so there is a chance that the point I'm talking about today will be a turning point, but it doesn't have to be a quick rise up. If it happens or doesn't happen, it's up to us, virtually. Now here's to you. If we move in some sensible, sustainable state for the Czech Republic in terms of health facilities, then we can believe that the charge for the month of December, respectively. newly diagnosed persons in December may be around 110 to 120 thousand. For your information, October was $300,000, November was $200,000. I'm saying if. I'm not a friend of the use of conditioners, but at this point, it's clearly appropriate, because it depends whether we'll be able to apply the most corrective measures. As far as further developments are concerned, it depends on whether it will be dynamic again or not, it is the regime that we propose to establish and continue to do so. Unfortunately, we do not have any other legal option at the moment, and I will return to this, how to introduce measures across the country, rather than within the duration of the emergency situation. What I consider to be an absolutely fundamental indicator, and we will all remember that when I represented an antiepidemic system here some time ago, I was just talking about it, that the score of this epidemic system is one of the fundamental, but not the only parameters. So the second, very important parameter is the burden of hospitals and their development. So far, it has been a positive fact that the total number of hospitalized patients has fallen to current values of around 4,000, 4,200 and so on. This condition is still in effect. Roughly 300 new income comes to hospitals every day in connection with the Coronavirus infection and a similar number of releases compensates for it. If there are any signs that this trend is also beginning to change, it will be a very strong reason for us to do more than we are doing now. We know that the development of hospitalization is seven to ten days late for a change in the population. If there is a deterioration in the epidemic - and I would like to point out that this probability has actually occurred - there will continue to be complications in the availability of care for other patients. And I would point out that at the moment, and we have been reporting this for several weeks, in addition to the difficulties and deaths from the coronavirus, the number of patients or the deceased in connection with the fact that the care they would otherwise have been given had to be postponed. In this sense, hospitals will also be informed that any suspensive care they think must be carried out by the end of the year should be carried out as soon as possible, as there is some capacity at the moment, and they are prepared to reduce this capacity within 14 days. [[14.40 hours]] I realize that the phrase emergency affects most of us in a strange, negative, perhaps even depressing way, many of us can be irritated. We associate them with closed shops, curfews and similar restrictions. But you and I both know that it isn't, and I would love it if we could explain it to people together. The government's need to declare an emergency with your support will allow for an extension of something that is all positive. At a time when the consequences of the epidemic are negatively affecting us, the announcement or extension of this emergency situation is what will enable us to respond effectively to the current situation. Thanks to the emergency situation, and it has been said here, it is easier to deploy soldiers, firemen, integrated rescue systems to help the government and all of us implement crisis measures. These people helped and helped track the infected. They helped and helped to provide sampling points for testing. These people helped and helped in hospitals and social services facilities, senior homes or homes for disabled people. These people have been helping and helping to secure the organisation and provide support IT systems that are key to running the entire crisis situation, thanks to which we have data that we can work with, which I can now present to you here. Thanks to the emergency situation, students can be easily, quickly and efficiently involved in helping them. In other words, because there is an emergency, we can use the rapid and operational assistance of all those without whom the situation would be far, far more difficult. I'm sure you'll ask me when this is all gonna end. When we can say responsibly that we no longer need any surface measures, so that we no longer need an emergency. In relation to the model I was talking about, which is very well correlated with the figures of the German Koch Institute, I can tell you with a calm conscience that it will be when we have about 3,500 newly diagnosed for a week. In other words, about 500 a week. [[day]] At the time, it is not a community spread, there is no serious risk at that time, there is no need for measures on the surface. We're quite far from that so far. When materials were being prepared for the honourable Chamber of Deputies, you may have also noticed that on the last page the modified anti-epidemic system table is printed in accordance with what the House has requested, which no longer counts on emergency status at level one. If this is applied and I hope sooner or later, I would like it to be sooner, I fear it will be later to get into that emergency state, then we need to know that the current regulation really allows us to regulate a number of things at local level, at district level, county level, and several regions. As soon as we approach most of the Republic, in other words, when we need to operate across borders, then our existing legal order imposes on us the application of the crisis law, in other words, an effort to declare an emergency. And at the very end of the day, just two little things that may not belong directly to the emergency situation, but which we would certainly come into contact with here today as part of the discussion. The first is beer. Please, it has come to light that it was not in any way intended for the current measures to prevent anyone from taking beer from the restaurant in a jug or a bottle. It was all given to limit consumption of alcohol in public. And these words of Professor Chocholoušek's regrettable event will be corrected within 24 hours by changing the government's resolution. And as far as stage three adjustment is concerned, you have noticed that when I told you that it is very likely that we will have to move into the system to level four sooner or later when the current situation deteriorates, then, of course, we will reflect the legitimate comments of a number of you and will do everything we can to ensure that the conditions for Czech traders, or for small traders and those who provide services are anchored and modified equally. It's like the big strings. Thank you very much for your attention and thank you again to those who have allowed me to speak now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, Minister. And the President of Rakušan will be the first to speak with priority rights, and President Bartoš will be prepared. [[A note from the diaper.]] Yes, the President was even a day faster this time. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, Mr Minister, we have met again in the House after some weeks on a subject that has already been an evergreen in the extension of the emergency situation. It's certainly something that doesn't please any of us, and that's what the Prime Minister and Minister mentioned here. It's a situation that's abnormal. It is a situation that limits the most basic constitutional rights of people in the Czech Republic. But let's think about what an emergency is. The Prime Minister called him a state of aid. I have to decline the term of aid. The emergency situation is supposed to be a maximum brake, it's supposed to brake some processes in society, it's supposed to help the government have time to spin the wheel in addition to the imaginary braking of the car and manage the pandemic in some way. The emergency situation, the time the House here gives to the government over and over again, to fill up some concrete steps. Because the emergency itself is not a cure. The cure is what happens within it. The cure is to be an effective strategy of our state, our government in the fight against pandemics. What can really help? This may be a rapid tracing when the government itself spoke of wanting to increase the speed of tracing positive cases to 90 percent of the announcements within 24 hours in all regions and also on weekends. This is objectively, and we all see it in our test friends and relatives, clearly not happening. Testing. Recently, the national testing coordinator Marian Hajdúch has finished his post. The Prime Minister himself commended him for his appreciation as an expert. He also expressed regret that he was not continuing his duties. But there were some reasons. He himself publicly said that he was unable to stand behind government decisions which simply did not reflect his expert recommendations and recommendations of other experts. In his opinion, there is still little testing in the Czech Republic. And it's often said it's expensive. One economic analogy, then. Since the beginning of the pandemic, testing has cost us roughly as much as the Czech economy costs one day of lockdown. In addition to preventive testing, they see an error in unrealistic surface antigen testing. A few specific examples from the world. In Finland there are 35 tests for one positive case, in South Korea there are 40 tests for the case, in the Czech Republic there are 5 tests for the case. The statistics are simply telling and testifying that the test strategy has still not been put into life as the government has repeatedly promised and does not keep its own promises. Because these are the specific means by which the pandemic situation can help. This is not an emergency in itself, which is extended to 30 days over and over again, without the government telling us how it wants to make real use of these 30 days to improve the situation. In the Czech Republic, we have 10 to 100 times more deaths converted per capita than countries that test enough. It's just not some statistical figure. There are simply specific people who lost their lives at the time of this pandemic because of the failure in the Czech Republic. This is simply a failure that has simply been unforgivable since those spring months and costs the health and lives of people in the Czech Republic. [[14.50 hours]] The next thing the government has to do is motivate them to follow the quarantine. We've all experienced people in our neighborhood who have been tested positive, and now those friends and friends are calling them and saying, "Please don't report me, don't report me, because I'm gonna have to stay home and I can't do it economically anymore, I can't stand it, I can't afford to be quarantined. Well, that's what the government has to respond to. If people are hiding their contacts, if people aren't voluntarily quarantined, we're objectively increasing the risk here. And that's absolutely not consistent with the government's decision of 7. 12. when the government refused to match the income of citizens in quarantine or isolation. If we don't motivate people in this way, they just won't go into quarantine and look - and the Čech are always good at that - all the ways so they don't have to go into it. Another thing that the Prime Minister mentioned for the first time, and for that he certainly deserves to thank, is vaccination and vaccination strategies. By the way, he mentioned here that Minister Blatný should send us the strategy as presidents, we all checked our mailboxes and data boxes, and none of us got it. In my opinion, the lack of vaccination and vaccination strategy is the third failure of this government. First in the spring, the aids we have - were not. Second, the warning of the experts in August that the second wave was approaching - ignored, all the measures arrived late, and we were catching up with the speeding train and actually never caught up with it. A third, missing vaccination strategy that will contain several levels: first, who is to be vaccinated and when; what is the key infrastructure; who will be first vaccinated - health professionals, social services, it is not such a difficult task, or seniors. For the next one. You're confusing the word logistics for distribution. Distribution is not a problem. I'm sure we can deliver the preparation in the Czech Republic. But logistics is who's gonna vaccinate, where she's gonna vaccinate, who and how she's gonna organize it. Will it be a county? I've spoken to our three captains. None of them yet have any instructions on how to organise the vaccination strategy within the Czech Republic at the regional level. For the next one. The government also fails to communicate that vaccination is really the way that can help us eventually. If the surrounding countries manage to inoculate their population, they can do it by summer, as if Germany has an ambitious plan, Austria certainly has a more ambitious plan than the Czech Republic - and we cannot do it? Logistically, can't we? Thus, the Czech Republic can potentially become a state in the middle of a Europe that others will avoid, and we will be moving here in constant waves of relaxing and closing, and it will mean a clear economic, social, social impact for life in the Czech Republic and we will not get out of it. We're just not gonna get out of this, and it's just the government's responsibility that it wasn't enough to organize this. A few examples. While Federal Minister of Health Jens Spahn of the CDU has called on individual federal countries this week to complete the construction of vaccination centres on 15. 12th, so the vaccination plan presented by Minister Blatný 7. 12. does not count on vaccination in the Czech Republic by the end of 2020. This may also have something to do with the fact that we chose AstraZeneca vaccine, which was to play a central role in our vaccination plan, but it does not yet have a preliminary registration and will probably not get it by the end of this year. The Germans chose another vaccine, namely Pfizer, which will be available from mid-December, and the first citizens of the Federal Republic will be vaccinated from 15 December. By the way, in this context, only the city of Berlin is preparing six major vaccination centres at the direction of the Federal Government, e.g. at Tegel Airport, Tempelhof, at Erica Hessová Winter Stadium, etc. This is the preparation for vaccination as it should be. There are currently 2,500 doctors in Bavaria who will only engage in vaccinations and vaccinations. The vaccination plan of the Czech Republic is much less ambitious and we claim that it should be vaccinated within the next year 6.9 million people. In the spring months - and now please listen to the numbers and the practical option - approximately 1 million people are to be vaccinated a month, which at two doses means about half a million vaccinations a week. While Germany prepares a hundred vaccination centres and individual federal countries are responsible for this, vaccination centres are not being prepared in the Czech Republic. How are we gonna do that? Transfer it to the medical examiner? So I'm going to calculate a time that a general practitioner would have to do every day to get the vaccinations in line with the government's plan. Five hours! For five hours, every practical physician in the Czech Republic would only inoculate. Where are the other patients who go to the physician? Where is any storage of the vaccine that must be consumed after thawing within a certain period of time? Why aren't we preparing vaccination centers? Where is it? Doesn't the government want to do that? He doesn't talk about it. Didn't she sleep here again fatally and for the third time? Please remember the words in the course of next year when we simply want to inoculate 6.9 million people in the Czech Republic with an ambitious plan. Why aren't the captains informed about this so far? Why aren't regional hospitals preparing for just the vaccination in the Czech Republic? Why isn't there an information campaign? Why do we allow space to flood fake news? Why do we leave people in doubt, and they send 30, 40, 50 e-mails a day to each of the Members in the House and tell them that something will be tested here, people will be guinea pigs, it's untested, etc. Why aren't there any relevant arguments? Why is there no awareness campaign here? We certainly have prestigious doctors who can argue. How do we do that if people simply refuse vaccination because they believe these unverified information, pseudoscience truths that appear? Do we have any other solution to defeat the pandemic than to inoculate the population as planned by the government? If we have the solution, then introduce him to us. We've never heard it before. Why are you afraid of this? Why are you afraid to talk about it? Is it a public opinion that is not in favour of the majority now that vaccination is really beneficial? Is that why? Just like the drapes weren't introduced in the summer because people didn't want it? Is this another one of the PR decisions that this government is currently making? Why can't we positively motivate people and explain to them that, on the contrary, vaccinations can cause the shops to stop closing, that we can go out for beer, that there won't be another lockdown, that there will be no closing shops and we'll start living here normally. Or is the government simply relying on the Spanish flu to disappear after the third wave of covid? We don't know, maybe, yeah, we all would, but it's certainly not. To do all this, we're supposed to need an emergency. The emergency situation is supposed to be the cure itself. Well, if the government were to carry out any of its plans, from the House's resolution, of things that would really help people in the Czech Republic, it would probably deserve to be helped to prolong the emergency situation for only 30 days. But it really didn't happen at all. This situation has not improved here, we will become confused, the PES system that we have prepared, and we have relied on it to keep an eye on the decisive period from Wednesday to Wednesday, so that it may take decisive measures from Monday onwards, it simply shortens. A famous cafe calls me on Sunday to see if he's supposed to clean the coffee machine, that it opens on Monday or not, then it shifts to Thursday. And then what else will the Prime Minister say? "It's Prague" in Hey, guys. Prague is to blame because people were irresponsible. - So it doesn't apply to Mr. former Minister Prymula's premise that we see the epidemic in the rearview mirror, and we'll see the result of the dislodgement in a week or ten days, but certainly what we saw this weekend wasn't the result of the dislodgement? We have a prime minister who says he's nervous the day before he's on TV. Well, I'd like to have a prime minister who calms people down and tells them that the situation is under control and that the government's decision to relax is discussed, clear, that's why the government does it, not the Prime Minister who says he's nervous. Does that make people nervous? Does he want to create the peace and confidence of government when the Prime Minister himself is nervous? I would like a calm Prime Minister who can also perform peacefully in an epidemic, explain all the measures and somehow lead them in some way. Please don't give in to the need to change the measures that you yourself have taken, to loosen up. Don't blame it on people. Blame yourself. You made the wrong decision for some reason, you misread the data, you didn't have it available, but it's certainly not the fault of those people you finally allowed to live normally for a while, and now you're gonna tell them that they're only allowed in the restaurant within eight hours, which means you're destroying the restaurants in this country. I really don't understand. It's an inappropriate alibi from you. [[15.00 hours]] And if you're coming in with a request for 30 days of emergency, tell us how you're gonna use them, what you're gonna use them for, if you're finally gonna do what people and the House want you to do, or in 30 days you're gonna come up with another 30, 'cause they just don't show up. I really can't go on like this. Just 30 days is a blank check to this government that we can't give her anymore. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. Now we still have to deal with the rapporteur's question on this issue, because, as a rule, the first one to speak is the rapporteur. However, President Rakušan has warned me that he is unable to monitor the debate in its entirety, has some work obligation, and, of course, the rapporteur must agree with his position. The second in line was President Bartoš, who I also asked, who will not be the rapporteur either. If we have nothing else, we shall vote on the rapporteur in plenary. I can only suggest that I ask individually those in order and hopefully somebody will finally take over. Mrs Pekarová Adamová, for example, would be next, and she does not agree. Next up, Vice-President Okamura, he's not here. Or I could ask the people who are in the debate directly. Mr. Feri is the first to sign up. Wouldn't he want to be a rapporteur? It doesn't. Mrs Hyťhová? It doesn't. Mrs Valachová apologized to me. She's not here right now. Mr. Bojko, Volný, Podal, Válek? In short, we cannot discuss the matter without being a designated rapporteur. So if there's one volunteer, we'll all be grateful. Mr. Birke? [[Ambassador Birke is communicating from the bench.]] It's a crisis. So we really need to sort this thing out in some way, and the rapporteur should take his place and watch the debate. And Mr. Birke is volunteering. [[Let's hear it across the hall.]] I'll take the vote just in case. Initiating vote. Who is for Mr Jan Birke's rapporteur? Anyone against it? In the vote order number 4 registered by 97 Members, for 53, against no one. The Member has been elected rapporteur. I congratulate him on his new position. The President of Bartoš with priority rights is next. President Pekarová Adamová will be ready. I'm handing over the meeting management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u8	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would like to thank Mr Birke for taking the lead. I was expecting someone from the YES movement, from the front. Anyway, last time, Olga Richterová volunteered. She was registered in order, for which I thank her. But you're my hero. And I would continue the serious matter that we have to discuss today. It's a matter of emergency. Today we're in an emergency state on the 68th day. Another extension would mean we have an emergency here for almost a hundred days. I would like to respond to what has been said here by the Prime Minister and partly by Minister Blatný, I will not point a gun at him because he is only in government for a short time. I'm going to talk about what this emergency situation allows and what the situation was in the first wave, so we just know what the framework is. The emergency situation in the first wave was needed, it was indisputable. We didn't know the virus, the company wasn't ready. For some understandable reasons, i.e. understandable for those who were following him, we did not have protective equipment at the time, it was necessary to prepare for the problem that covid brought to the Czech Republic. We've seen the lockdown, the first lockdown. The first of the major problems, and I think that the government has the problem now, after eight months, is the one, and the economic plane is that the Czech Republic is losing tax revenue and gross domestic product is falling, that the government's war against covid or battle, and that is what Minister Hamáček and Mr Babiš called it several times, are leading at that time, but this is true for a large part except for those expenditures that are in the first place state direction to health care, as well as entrepreneurs and citizens in the Czech Republic. Since no relevant compensatory bonus was introduced even in the first stage, I am not saying one hundred percent of lost profits, but a compensatory bonus for people whose government somehow intervened in their livelihood, whether it is business or establishment. The government decided to take such a Solomonian step, took all those measures and moved them as measures that come from the Ministry of Health, so that they would not be in an emergency state and thus avoid the possible obligation to pay some costs. This came to trial, the court of course dropped it, said it was unacceptable not to do such serious things in accordance with an emergency situation, and mentioned one very important thing to me there. In addition to the fact that this cannot be done, he also said that all measures that are declared with an emergency must be clearly justified, justified and evaluated, so that the pandemic can be actually managed. And that's one of the first reservations pointing to the government from my side at this time of the second wave. That's not happening. It's not happening with the individual measures. So we left the dog. According to the numbers we're looking at, we're almost at that stage four, which would mean closing down the premises again, closing down the retail business again. And if I were to ask for the justification, and Minister Blatný here spoke of the error being made, so when I see only the situation of people who work in restaurants who work in pubs, but also the supply chains that supply there, what is their situation in the last 14 days? First, it was once again chaoticly announced to the media that on Sunday it would decide that maybe Monday. On Sunday and Monday it was said that more Thursday, then Thursday it opened with an opening hour, which was somehow set, then it was announced that this opening hour would be reduced by two hours, which for people who are at work within six hours and are going to have dinner there by seven, means that the whole section is simply dropping out of dinner. Consequently, for a change, it has been reported quite sloppy that it is problematic to consume alcoholic beverages outside, i.e. a welder from the window no longer, while drinking a welder in an open pub is probably less risky behavior. And this is how it goes. So the restaurants that got hit in the first wave were now closed, they could either draw money on their employees, or help in continuance as a person from the government program, which is the fifteen minus five thousand, or how much, they arranged at least through the window, it's cold outside, people walking around the street during the day, and this was forbidden to them again. So we're at a stage where, and it's a relatively large number of people who work in it, buy supplies, enter into some moment that they can function normally, and within one week you've limited two aspects of their activities, which obviously didn't saturate the expected profit from the business, it was really only a small percentage of profit, but even this small percentage is affected at that time. And watch out, here comes the important thing I started out with. When we look at neighbouring Germany or neighbouring Austria, which also have some measures in place that apply here, some have another way in place, but these states know that this intervention needs to be compensated. They compensate it between 60 and 80 per cent of the profit lost. And at that point, I would be willing if there were such a pattern that we asked for in the first wave, there would be Jakub Michálek standing here, if there was any certainty of compensation to keep the business, the small business - so let's talk that even the hard lockdown of these establishments will quickly solve the situation in which we are, and we won't move in those high numbers. But this didn't happen. The compensation didn't happen here in any way, so it's like it's open, but the businesses are shutting down. And I'm asking why this isn't counted. In the last debate, there was Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, there was Minister of Interior Hamáček, we discussed an amendment to the crisis law, which introduces a more moderate state, a condition called a state of danger. We were able to comment on this, I am glad that the Ministry took into account the proposals of all the Presidents who were there, and things that we did not like were adjusted. However, when we figured out whether there would be any possibility of compensation, to help entrepreneurs who didn't have their own fault without making a mistake, they couldn't exist now, they couldn't carry money to their families, so Minister Hamáček said: we should resolve this in the compensation law. But there's no such thing. [[15.10 hours]] So that's one of my reservations. At this point, we're simply interfering with the business in such a way that it can't survive through government aid, the key moments when they can work are severely limited and the prospect of being compensated is not. When we were having fun in the first wave, when the different businessmen wanted to, the people are like the million people who depend on it, they said, we need to make a decision. We're saved, we're willing to even make easy credit, but we need to know that it's gonna open up again sometime. Here, the emergency situation was often likened to floods, but the floods once penetrated, the damage was done, and then the business, the life in Karlín here in Prague, recovered. But it's not happening here. Here's the blow after the blow that hits the business. And people asked us, "Hey, pirát, are we supposed to sell it, are we supposed to let these people go, end up with zero, no debts, or are we supposed to try to continue our honest profession that we do?" And we believed, and the government promised that they would get the certainty. They didn't get the certainty. I would like to respond to two other things that Minister Blatný has said here, particularly the part that talks about health. I am extremely glad - and thanks to the work of the paramedics, who are still under a lot of pressure - that we managed to stand down from the growing numbers we warned about. When we had a big Jagello conference at Prague Castle about defence, I thanked the Army of the Czech Republic, and they were perceived very positively as key players in solving the first pandemic wave. But since then, Minister, perhaps Prime Minister or Minister Hamáček, it has been another five or six months since then, so I would expect this government to go in the direction of these steps - we need to have the equipment for the time when we don't have to call an army, when we're going to aturize it, the system, from some newly recruited or retrained people. Because with this optic, whenever the system gets more stress, we're gonna call the army over and over again, and that would have to be the emergency situation here forever. I just wanted to get back to one thing. Minister Blatný has promised several things that will happen here. I remember the House's resolution 14 days ago when we were discussing the emergency situation and we were asking for these things to happen in some way. Your argument for extending the emergency situation, and I remember it very accurately, was an impossibility to control centrally hygienic stations. And we even made it a condition that we wanted it. Your ministry has prepared a law that allows it. And I am, yes, let's leave the competence of regional health stations to solve some local problems such as the occurrence of a disease, untypical, perhaps in some establishment, and whether they deal with it on the spot, it probably doesn't make sense to decide or manage it from Prague. But let's go, because it was one of the reasons that central management anchored in the law. And we would support the law. How much worse was my dismay when I looked into the government system in the morning and found the law that we would also support, recorded with elements that take all the measures that are announced with an emergency, and move them out of this state under that central health station. I mean, what the government has tried to do before in the first state. I'm sorry, I'm glad it's gone missing, I hope it won't happen again. Because we're dealing with the positive motivation again. The government is debating now, and I would probably also be in favour of the fact that people who are at home because of covid quarantine or isolation really compensate more than 60 percent. And that's the simple reason, because it's just you at the moment, when you have rent, you pay the power, you have kids at home, you just can't function in the long run. Forty percent of Czech households are in financial distress or are at the edge of some financially difficult situation and staying at home is simply liquidation for those families, and I am not talking about companies now. And in this way, we should motivate these people not to be afraid to go home at the moment because of the difficult epidemiological situation and to be there during the quarantine period, whether the virus appears, or not to be afraid to really tell people who they've met. I understand that it is easier to extract data about their locations from operators and go this way, but I still believe in society and I think that we live in a society where citizens trust each other and politicians believe in the ability of that society. I'll be getting close to the conclusion. So we had a few demands. For me, the long-term discrimination against retail trade is absolutely essential, the inability to prepare the conditions that would put them at the level of large business chains that can sell a wide range of products, and that did not happen either. The PES system is now just open in the threesome, although the threesome doesn't actually apply anymore, and once we get to system four, which unfortunately, even according to the methodology, the view is rather realistic, they're going to shut down in full. And no specific measures will be applied there. I believe that in small shops, at the hairdresser's, in the nail studio, but especially in the store, for example, electrical appliances or some shop on the corner, where the person stays for not too long and those visitors are there even on a busy street of 50 a day, there is no rational reason why this person could not have four or higher open even in the "dog" as large business chains are. And as I'm saying, this is what we discussed at the last meeting, it's two weeks later, and now we've got some promise to recalibrate the "dog" and implement this measure. So the central sanitation stations and all the things that we're saying right now, or you're saying that they're closely connected to the emergency situation, so move in a functional smart solution to some regime that, on the contrary, won't require an emergency, because the emergency state gives the government an incredible power over people's lives, that on Monday, he can say "A," and then he can say "B." For this reason, we will not support the extension of 30 days as a Pirate Club, because the government does not fulfil the tasks given to it by the House, nor does it act according to the recommendation of the court, which, in the first wave of the pandemic, strongly demanded that all such serious measures be always justified and evaluated at the same time. Thank you. I would like to conclude by using Minister Blatný here, and Prime Minister Babiš is here. I wanted to challenge you, but it sounded from you, so I hope everyone heard it, and if you did it again, I think it would be beneficial. Prime Minister Babiš here is talking about not making a pandemic out of politics. You came to the government after Minister Prymul as a non-political minister who handles matters professionally. I am most sorry about this government, and Minister Havlíček has recently joined Prime Minister Babiš, when not only in his Zhau people, but in a series of TV shows, the numbers we are looking at today are throwing at people who went to see an adventure on a tree this weekend, like they are irresponsible. That is what I think, if it is any way for the Prime Minister here to settle political accounts with the Mayor of Prague or to turn the rest of the Republic against Prague, I find it fundamentally unfair, politically incorrect, and I would like you, as a minister, to actually describe the situation as it is here. The fact is, whatever the reasons, that Prague has a "dog" in it, and today, when you look at the map and the hit, the numbers are very good compared to the rest of the Republic, thanks to Prague, the whole republic average has risen, and you even said for the media that it could be better not to count Prague in the overall score because it raises the other regions. - It's Ustecko, Prime Minister, you should deal with that, not Prague. - So Prague really picked up the whole country average, and that actually got the PES into a threesome and they could open up the facilities and even the restaurants. And it really seems rude to me that Prague should be called the culprit of something that it has not caused, at the same time with the numbers it has, given to people as a bad example, and this policy of break-up and abuse of the pandemic crisis and, perhaps, the emergency situation that the government is now quite arbitraryly ruling, as completely inadequate, and I would like to hear at least a confirmation of my words from the Minister of Health as regards our capital, where I was not born, but since I was nineteen years old, that is twenty years old, here I live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u9	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the debate with priority rights. Now, Mrs Pekarová Adamová and Vice-President Okamura will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u10	Dear Government, honourable Members, the TOP 09 will not support the extension of the emergency situation. Emergency is a very special condition. It's a special thing, a special situation. And it is to be used for a really effective solution to the situation. They must be perfectly justified and treated as saffron in cooking. The material at the high school seminar level, which you justify your request for an extension of the emergency situation, would perhaps be enough at that high school to succeed. But it really is not enough for us to be willing to raise our hand for extension based on such justifications. We tell you all the time. I mean, we've been repeating this request for several weeks now. And we're always asking you to process your material really better. To bring not only the reasons for what is currently going on, what the epidemic looks like, but also to give a clear answer to what you will be doing in the next emergency period to cope with the epidemic. So it's not just about why, it's about how. The answer to that question. In this material it is not answered and the development scenarios, which finally contain the material, it is a slight shift compared to the previous different applications, so it is possible to see some outline, but the clear concrete answer, which steps you will take, is not there. Will it be a dog? Well, obviously, he doesn't either. The dog has many puppies and he probably already died. Or slowly dying. When it's convenient, it's this system that you're still protecting yourself, but then in reality, you're gradually retreating from it. People don't know if they can count on it anymore. And I'm not surprised, actually, because we've been telling you about his mistakes since the start of the antiepidemic system, and that it needs to be corrected. Did you fix it? When you saw that he had a number of blind spots, did you make changes? No. Why wouldn't I? We'll come to the House, we'll talk, then we'll hear the debate, we'll take it off, we'll take it off for another month or a few weeks, and we're done, we're moving on. Well, ladies and gentlemen, no way. Patience is not bottomless. The patience has run out. Desperate people do desperate things. And the desperation of many of our fellow citizens is already literally felt by the hundreds of messages and e-mails that I believe you are receiving. I definitely get them just after hundreds a day. Their desperation is escalating day by day. And I don't blame them at all. The cry for help is escalating along with it. I'm going to give you a few specific examples, but these examples could be tolerated here one by one all day long. Example. A businessman employing dozens of people. It has literally a murderous triple combination of business for the present time because it has a mini-brewery, restaurant and accommodation services. It is specifically in České Budějovice. I spoke to him yesterday. Do you know when this guy got help from the COVID program - Accommodation for the Spring Wave? The day before yesterday! And you're hearing really well. Two days ago, December 7th, he finally landed in his account aid, which was intended for the spring season. Well, at least some, right? After the ten months in which he has to run his business here, and out of the ten months in which we have the epidemic, he's been completely shut down for 20 weeks, all of his establishments, not to mention how many more weeks he's had to limit his business. To those 20 weeks of complete closure and the other many weeks of restrictions that still last, at least in the food service, so he gets as the only help Antivirus. Help should be especially quick. What was the evergreen and the main slogan of spring? Even here from the counter and from the mouth of you, government officials? Whoever gives fast, twice gives. That sounded like it all the time. It's quite starting to stop, because the reality that's showing up shows clarity. The speed at which this government has been able to build highways is slowly faster than with the army of officials at its disposal, it is able to evaluate requests for assistance, compensation and provide them to the needy. In addition, this particular businessman now trembles with fear of opening traffic for at least a few weeks. As soon as he bought supplies, he made a new batch of beer in the brewery, so you come up with a gas station closing at eight o'clock. Of course, it's a major blackout in his sales. Speaking of sales, for the sake of illustration, he told me that in the ten months of the current year, when we live with coronavirus, he has about 30% of what he had during the same period last year. And with great glory, the state will send him help for the spring of December. Imagine, Minister and Ministers, if you had to live with 30 percent of your normal income, what you normally earn, and what you still have to pay for it all you need to do. Assistant, driver's car, office, all this. If you'd all of the 30 percent of your usual income you'd get, you'd have to tighten it all up. I totally understand this man's desperation. And it's really fair to say that the only help you've ever given yourself, even though, of course, he's forced to pay the contributions first, was the help of the antivir, the individual antivira. But that, in itself, is pitifully low on how much such a businessman has employed over the years, when he employs a number of people, when he pays taxes and taxes for the very people and when he creates values for the entire society, so for all that he himself has done to the state over the years, it is sadly little to wait for the next month. And he says quite clearly, if there's another closure, I'm not gonna do it anymore, I'm gonna close in the spring, I'm gonna quit, I'm gonna fire everyone, and I'm gonna go to the employment office myself. Another example. manikérka from Prague, self-employed, single-parent, mother of two small children. She lost a third of her customers because of the spring wave. Her customers can't afford her services now, even if she offers them at really favourable prices. The fall wave's losses are just adding up. The blackout will manifest itself in further decline, that's for sure. Restoring the clientele will not take a very short time, it will take many months, perhaps even longer. Of course, he continues to pay rent for a place in the salon where he works, where he rents. She's been running her rent the whole time she was closed. When she had to shut down the government's orders. She'll be left with the compensation bonus after paying her insurance contributions for the rent, for the living, zero. For involvement in COVID - Rent does not meet the conditions. He doesn't know much about aid from the state. I've been talking to her a lot. I've known her for years. Her work is really good and customers do not leave her because she would get worse, that she would be less welcoming, that they would complain about the quality of her services, but simply because she could not work. And in her case, the name of the bonus as compensation is a completely misleading concept. In her case, it's no compensation, it's a bare survival dose. So what do you think these people are doing? They're in debt! It's gonna hit them next month, and they might be coming out of it for years. [[15.30 hours]] Third example. A musician who hasn't played a proper concert since the end of last year. COVID - Culture, the 60,000 that he is entitled to as a civil servant in culture, hopefully one day he will. Because he hasn't seen them in the account yet. And yet, if we count it for days, it'll give him less than two hundred a day. All the time he needs help here. He has two children, a mother's wife, and a great effort to make money in other ways. He tried to start another kind of business, even if he, as a musician, had to practice regularly. It's not like the talent is just eternal without some constant practice. The musical instrument must be held in its hands for several hours a day, which is, of course, absolutely at the level of some two-time work. Otherwise, what he's been doing since he was a child, maybe after this crisis, he wouldn't have to do at all. So he's washing cars today instead of doing concerts. He writes to me very regularly because it is obvious that he really carries the situation very hard and is experiencing it, and yesterday, for example, he wrote to me that he had already hanged himself by a friend who was simply unable to cope with the current situation. Even things like this happen today. And what's his experience with help from the state? I'll use his authentic words: I can't tell you about the aids, I've spent tens of hours searching the ministries' websites, I've called them and they've been uncomfortable and they've put me back on the web on line 1221. It's been really many weeks since the application, and still nothing. I'm on my nerves, family's on it, but I'm just nervous. So, Dear Government, your help is in style for the wolf to eat and the goat to remain whole. You promised to pump over CZK 1.2 trillion into the economy, of which 298 billion for direct aid. You've been feeding the public this number since spring. And the reality? At the end of November, a few days ago, only 56 percent of the promised direct aid was paid. Just a little over half. Where's the rest of it? When Secretary Schillerová shows his tables in the media, they are very misleading. There are more promises in them than the reality, and the reality is painted pink. You know what those you banned from earning are thinking, and they were willing to bear it and contribute themselves to the responsible management and resolution of the epidemic, but now they're really angry and desperate, because the promised helping hand is more likely to show them the middleman instead of pulling them out of the swamp they're stretching into? That the state under your command has failed completely. That the state that has been paying taxes for years has not helped them today, and those officials are laughing at them from the home office. That's what they tell me they don't trust a hungry man. And they're mad at us, at the opposition, and they're saying, how come you left us behind? Why don't you help? But what does the opposition come up with all the time since March? One proposition at a time. We wanted to, and I'm just going to give you really a few examples, for example, to introduce a simple and predictable compensation mechanism for limited and closed businesses. To forgive social and health insurance contributions for the entire period of validity by restrictions to all those who are limited, limited or forbidden to earn and work. It was done only for part of the whole crisis, but not during the fall wave. To allow you to simultaneously draw support from both the compensation bonus and Antivirus. It is not possible for entrepreneurs to have to choose whether to provide wages from Antivirus for their employees and to have nothing to live on, or whether to pay at least the most necessary of the compensation bonus and to throw workers overboard. That's exactly the dilemma you put them through for a long time. And then quietly, when you have listened to us, information will appear on the Twitter of the Ministry of Finance on November 27 that this simultaneous drawdown of Antivirus and compensation bonus will begin to be prepared. But how much longer is this gonna take? When will this be realized? Even if it's paid back, how many more really will it help these people if they're already completely on the pavement? So far, it's a promise. So as long as it's not black and white, and as long as it's not in the accounts, it's no use to them. We want you to expand the compensation even for the indirectly affected. Those are the clouds. These are cleaning services, laundry rooms and many, many others. You did not directly prohibit them from doing business, but by shutting down customers of their services you cut them off from demand and did not offer them sufficient compensation. We want you not to discriminate against small deals against large chains. It must not be repeated that a small shoemaker or bookseller will have to be closed while the same goods are purchased by people in a supermarket that is moving on happily and with which sales are growing. By the way, this is exactly what we need to work into the antiepidemic plan. At this particular point, the PES is to be corrected in its individual stages. Is it there? No! TOP 09, ODS and KDU-ČSL have submitted a compensation law. Do you know why we need it? Because these people need to be sure. The fact that if the state restricts or completely bans their business, he himself has a direct obligation to help them with the payment of fixed costs. Just a hundred percent if he forbids, fifty percent if he just cuts it down. This law has been here for many weeks, if not months, in the House. It's possible to discuss it at any time. I'm going to try to put him on the agenda next week, when it's a proper House meeting, so he can get his turn. And show yourself you're serious about helping people. Raise your hand to actually discuss it, to reduce the time limits for the hearing, and to have it valid at the beginning of next year so that it can start working. Because you need it as a whip to yourself in order to think exactly about whether or not you're going to go to the land-based restrictions, to close the economy, or whether or not you're going to think about it, whether or not you can handle it with smarter measures. Smarter, more complicated. Yeah, well, it's easy to forbid someone, but if you had this whip over you, I believe you'd treat it just like that saffron. So, nice businessmen and the public, the opposition is really as constructive as possible. Now I have given just a few examples of what we have presented, we are promoting what we have written, even without an army of officials that we do not have at our disposal. We don't have thousands of other people, none of the opposition parties. We're doing this with our capacities, which are completely minimal compared to the government. And yet we're ready whenever the government throws us a table, then quietly raises it a few weeks later, presents it as its own, adjusts only a few things, we're always able and willing to raise her hand for it. We've never done it differently during this crisis. What do the economy, entrepreneurs, and businessmen and their employees need most today? So the state can control the epidemic cleverly, so that it can let them do business and make money to make a system, but one that doesn't discriminate against small ones who have logic and meaning that they understand and that they won't understand in the spirit: we can't do it any other way than shut you down at home, and then threaten you with a higher fine. That's the new thing you're coming up with. TOP 09 also offers assistance in dealing with the very health part of the crisis. AntiCovid team, which we have assembled with colleagues from ODS and KDU-ČSL from our experts and which also cooperates with non-partisan experts, comes every week with clear suggestions and recommendations. Indeed, every week these people discuss what needs to be done. I'll remind you, it's nine. 9. the TOP 09 came with eight concrete steps to be taken to get the situation under control. Strengthening sanitation stations, accelerating testing and improving awareness of circuit doctors, affordable and high-quality respirators and drapes, effective protection of risk groups, especially seniors, clear vaccination plan, really smart quarantine, tracking that will work instead of limiting the entire society, and the availability of data to the professional public. [[15.40 hours]] We are now proposing a fundamental revision of the "dog." And even then, on 9 September, three months ago, we said: Prepare the Czech Republic, people for vaccinations. The Němec already have vaccination centers today, the Brit have already started vaccination, and what about the Czech Republic? A strategy that still needs a number of repairs, if it works in January and if we start vaccination in January or February, we'll still be celebrating. And the inoculation of sixty to seventy percent of the population that is needed, so it really is no fun, but a big logistics operation that requires all involved. I confirm the words of one of my fellow party chairmen that I have also received no vaccination plan and strategy. Really nothing like that, I've checked with my assistants, we haven't received an e-mail or a data box. And there's a massive anti-inoculation misinformation campaign that's fueling the population as fast as the virus itself. What's the government doing with it? How does he fight this misinformation? Where's the awareness campaign? How come he's not running anymore? Well, where is he? Nowhere. Nothing again. We pushed through the resolution here in the House with a deadline that was due in mid-October. But it's in vain, it's in vain, it's in vain. Nothing. We got nothing. At least that awkward project to develop its own Czech vaccine was stopped, that blind dorm that had been doomed to failure in advance and over which energy was wasted instead of the time, energy and capacity being used for the things that are really needed. Just so we're clear about the vaccination, I'm sure I'll get a shot. And I know it won't be in phase one. I'm not one of the risk groups, I'm not one of the most necessary paramedics and all this senior home care staff, etc. They must be definitely first in line, along with old and sick people. But we really should set an example as politicians. What happens - and certainly in your mailboxes too - is very dangerous for me as many as two minutes of the e-mail that concerns this topic. And I would also like to ask the Prime Minister, who has spoken about it here today in presenting an emergency request, not to underestimate it. Our Member, Helena Langšádlová, has already visited the third minister in order, the third Minister of Health, to offer capacity and help not only her own to combat these things effectively. Intensely for several months, it offers help, as Dominik Feri offered help about the website, the information site, but this helping hand is not returned at all. And it's a shame, and it's wrong. Sum of the sum, the government does not use emergency status effectively to solve the epidemic. He only knows the stupid, i.e. the stencils by which companies are shut down. And those clever solutions, if she tested as many people as possible free of charge and motivated them to do so, if, within 24 hours, all the contacts of the infected were stratified, if she motivated by her example and prepared in detail, but really in detail everything for vaccination, if she helped people affected by the economic effects quickly, I would point out the word quickly so that no one would be afraid of a loss of income that he would be liquidated, so these solutions can't. So the government doesn't deserve an extra day of emergency. He can't, and he doesn't want to learn from his own mistakes. He can't, and he doesn't want to restore people's trust. He can, but he doesn't want to accept the opposition's proposals. But he knows the restrictions. Blaming people, threatening, closing and decimating a number of industries. We have no absolute confidence that you can handle the situation. That you can use the emergency situation to the advantage and the solution. The trick is, all of a sudden, after eleven weeks of re-establishing the Central Crisis Staff, when you're in trouble, when the situation gets worse, suddenly you say "dear opposition, name it after your deputies, you're welcome," so we're not really gonna jump on that one. This is not a constructive attempt to get the country out of the crisis. If that's what you're after, you'll offer it immediately with the activation of the Central Crisis Staff. This is just trying to have an alibi. Having an alibi for your failures, your mistakes, and we're just not gonna shine on you. Key decisions are not made by the Central Crisis Staff, but by the government. And the key decisions of the parties to economic aid, the parties to those health solutions, could not promote our representatives anyway. The government's had enough of all these ideas from us all the time, and it's still on its way. The epidemic was slowly improving, but now it's starting to get worse. And I'm wondering, you've got it covered, why is that? What exactly is behind the increase in the number of infected people? Based on the data, not the impressions. Based on facts and data. You make decisions often based on the impressions of photos on social media. You're blaming the citizens for being irresponsible, for gathering too much. You take photos that are often misrepresented behind a coin. But what is the reality? Police, and I think the Home Secretary would confirm that because the data was published by the Ministry of the Interior, so within three days between, I think, sixth and seventh and eighth, or maybe even a day earlier, December, almost 30,000 checks were made, and the checks carried out revealed only 0.1 percent of the non-compliance. So you're going through a higher restriction, you're actually going through a straight-up whip, not just a raised finger. And that's what you're replacing that trust with. Despite the fact that the vast, overwhelming majority of people did not fail. He's keeping it. And the police themselves confirm it. Can you at least protect the risk groups, protect the sick and the elderly? You can't. The disease has already occurred with 12,000 clients in social services in the Czech Republic. Even though they were banned for a large part of the visit. Once again, one of our proposals, 9th of September, three months ago. Let's protect mostly and properly risk groups. What did you do? They sent five masks and one respirator, unsanitary wrapped in an envelope before the election? It wasn't until November - we also proposed this in September - that you tested clients and staff in senior homes. And even that didn't go without a problem. So the essential thing that should happen, protecting the most vulnerable, that's not happening again. Our proposal for a solution so that you don't say that anyone who doesn't want to prolong an emergency means: let the epidemic get even more curled up and out of control. First, redo the "dog." After the traffic light that ran out of power, the juice, I don't know, definitely won't go through this PES system. We have prepared a repaired version for you, we will be happy to provide it. Many of these levels don't need an emergency at all, and yet, they'll still be fine from the point of view of the law. Step on the gas to help people. It's just a priority to help in days, not weeks or months. Approval of the compensation law so that aid is always clear, predictable, and businesses and businessmen know what they can expect in case of further restrictions. That's just to be safe, even though we don't want the big, stupid restrictions anymore. Actively disprove misinformation. But work really actively with this, it's a huge problem. Inform truthfully and completely, intelligiblely, so that people can regain their trust and trust you. Prepare a clear and high-quality vaccination plan and everything necessary to do with it. Material background, etc., I'm not going to name it. Whether today the registration of all candidates for voluntary vaccination can run. Allow people in homes for seniors and social facilities to contact loved ones and families in order to ensure their safety. Models are, once again, our AntiCovid team introduced him and suggests to the government how to deal with this specifically. Learn to cope with the epidemic situation even without prolonging the emergency situation indefinitely, and please do not put it in such a way that anyone who opposes the emergency situation wants the epidemic to get out of control and other thousands of people to pay for your inability to live. [[15.50 hours]] People's health and lives come first for us. That's what I want to assure you of. But just as you do not accept our specific dozens of solutions, the proposals that we have been bringing for many months, which we are trying to enforce as separate laws, whether as amendments, whether as a resolution right here in the House, we cannot accept that you are just laughing in the eyes of all of us and not working with all of this. This work, which we all do with it in good faith, that we want to pull on that one imaginary rope, as we have been repeated and offered many times here, so you leave it to us. So we cannot - nor can you expect us to - raise your hand for a blank check of a 30-day emergency situation in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u11	That was Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Mr Okamura, now with priority rights, Mr Petr Fiala will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, today the government, for the third time this year in the second wave of covid, requests the House's approval to extend the emergency for another 30 days. For our SPD movement, repeated extension of the emergency situation is unacceptable, and we will therefore not support the government's request. The government of the ANO movement, ČSSD with the support of the KSČM, had enough time to prepare and approve the amendment to the Public Health Act so that it could take counterepidemiological measures as necessary and without the need to declare an emergency. But this was not done by the government, even though the adoption of an amendment in the House would take just one day in a state of legislative emergency. So it is clear that the main reason for extending the emergency situation are public contracts that can be done in an emergency state without a selection procedure. But Prime Minister Babiš cites a high number of deceased as a reason. The Prime Minister should choose a more intelligent advisor, because I certainly don't believe that this reasoning comes from his head. Firstly, in a sense record-breaking, which I will explain, we have the number of deaths in October, and so it is difficult to argue in December. But what has escaped media experts is the fact that although the number of deaths is increasing, it is clear that people who did not have covid die much more than other years. What does that mean? It is largely stress, impaired availability and subsequent neglect of health care, less movement, less fresh air, neglected prevention and other factors. Paradoxically, these people were killed by an emergency and a covid panic. This statistic clearly states that the abnormal state that government and media have created in the country kills more than covid. Of course, cancer, vascular events, for which he has stress and movement etc. direct influence, they're killer number one. And the flu or her sister, covid, is making the disease worse, but it can't be compared to their dangers, which is good, because we really don't need another mass-death disease. Moreover, the deceased, who failed to assign to the covid, is also aware of the Minister of Health Blatný, who says, quote, that these people died of something that is in addition to the previous years, but it is not a covid. Therefore, standard health care needs to be restored as quickly as possible. But health doesn't only make limited health care worse. Here, I would probably even argue with the paramedics and the minister, because what made health worse, what destroyed immunity, it really was, and there are several months of stress and limitations on healthy and sick people and their care, and it would be nice for everyone to realize that, both ministers and media, who are leading the first league in the stress spread. A lot of people, scared politicians and the media, started neglecting the protection of their health because there was a feeling that the only dangerous virus was covid. According to the survey server lekarna.cz health care reduced almost every other responder. A third said that disease concerns have changed their health care so far so far that they have left out prevention. As a result, there are cases where it is already late, and patients who were still healers in the spring are now sentenced to death. This is a direct result of the spread of alarm reports on a murderous covid, the result of the falsifying statistics and the misrepresentation of data, where the media is completely lying here, for example, using a false expression about hundreds of thousands cured of covid, and there is no cure, because the people have never been sick, were merely a positive covid. But without falsifying the facts, they would not have the enormous panic that brings for example so much good in the form of million-dollar contracts without tenders. As well as half, and perhaps sometimes more, covid beds have been occupied in some hospitals by patients who were not sick, basically social beds, and thus disproportionately burdened themselves with the staff who had to follow strict and very burdensome quarantine rules, and this, of course, made it harder to care for the really needed and endangered patients. Statisticians are starting to show us hard facts now. Facts about warning us not to do more damage than the virus itself because of the corona of madness. I warned about it several times, and there can be no doubt about it today. I've never bullied the situation, and I'm not gonna do it now. The situation is serious, since the government has not only destroyed the economy, it has not only brought a lot of people into material need, but a lot of people are threatened with health because of neglected care. We should pour some pure wine and say that the sooner we get back to normal, the better for everyone. Just because there's gonna be a normal state here doesn't mean people aren't gonna be protected. I say and repeat - let us protect endangered groups of people and let others live and work. Unfortunately, polymorbid people or people of high age have threatened the flu, viruses or bacteria since always and in truth, very old people are threatened by longer lying in the hospital itself, so it is not unusual when an old patient comes to the hospital with a fracture and eventually dies of pneumonia. Today, however, statistics are being falsified by the fact that if by any chance the deceased is positive for covid, according to the new ideology, he died of covid. As I mentioned here earlier, this is a well-known Italian model where a lot of people died for nothing, and not for the covid, but because of the collapse of health care caused by a disproportionate covid hysteria. I'd say this is the real spread of alarm messages. And as the government scares people with emergency conditions, it adds panic reports to credibility and only increases the damage caused by them. The return of children to schools did not make it quite visible, but the fact that they were not in those schools of months, on the contrary, was quite visibly and measurablely damaged, as did the parent's closure. Of course, closing small Czech shops did not really benefit anybody, as the government's chosen multinational supermarkets or hobby markets only burst in the seams, without anyone addressing the fact that hundreds of people were squeezed there. Not to mention how the government fundamentally economically damaged Czech businessmen, Czech small entrepreneurs and their employees by this decision, because multinational hypermarkets with the same range are open and even expanded the areas where they sold shoes and textiles and enjoyed the big profits at the expense of Czech entrepreneurs and Czech companies and their employees. But before Christmas, sales are important. Finally, I would comment on the Government's bill limiting citizens' civil liberties. At the last minute, the government prepared paskvil in order to create an institution called the Central Office of Public Health Services. This office should have even greater powers under the authority of a civil servant than the government, and without the control of the House, it would allow the fundamental limits on the rights and freedoms of citizens. This proposal also contains an amendment to the Electronic Communications Act, which would allow the Office to request data from the mobile operator on the movement of persons already with mere suspicion of the disease, without their consent and retroactively. It's basically stalking. The Government's proposal in this way is totally unacceptable to the SPD and in no way will we support it in the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u13	I thank Vice-President Okamur. Now Vice-President, Chairman of the ODS, Petr Fiala. The Vice-President of the Government and Chairman of Social Democracy Jan Hamáček will be ready. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u14	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I will be very clear at the start of this basic communication. The Civil Democratic Party will not support the extension of the emergency situation. I'm saying it's the first time. First time we don't support an extension. We have always discussed in the past the length and suitability of what the government comes up with, but in the end we have always supported in some form of prolongation of the emergency situation, we have always raised our hand for it, even with a number of reservations. But this time we feel that we can't do this anymore, and our votes to support the emergency situation will not be in this case, or our votes will not support the extension of the emergency situation. [[16.00 hours]] I feel that this debate is often interpreted as being a debate between some responsible and those who are reckless, between health defenders and irresponsible fools. But it's not. I'm sure the discussion about the emergency isn't about this. It is a discussion of the sensibleness, proportionality, clarity of the measures taken. And the understanding, the proportionality, and the clarity, I would point out. It is also, of course, a debate on the political-legal justification of the measures, their regime and the instruments it has, can be used by the government. I'm gonna get to the legal stuff in a little while. And it's kind of over and over again. We always come up with demands, criticism, suggestions, ideas, handshakes. And the government always says yes, we'll take it into account, next time it'll be different, and now it's a difficult situation, and next time it's the same. So remember, a number of my previous speakers here have already talked about it, and she's given a lot of these examples -- it's over and over again. We had Semafor, he didn't pay, he didn't work, so something else will be done, he came in with "dog," the PES doesn't pay either. He stopped paying for education, then he stopped paying for his schedule, now he doesn't pay any more points, so there's some inter-PES, and over and over again. And this isn't about whether it suits the opposition or not. The point is, it's absolutely incomprehensible to citizens. I mean, they were promised the "dog," now everyone can do the math, now every businessman can see what's waiting for him, now we'll all know what measures will come when... And you see, it's completely different again. And we believe that it really can't go on like this. Or one example: discrimination against small retailers, small entrepreneurs, who have no justification for epidemiological, health, does not simply have this reason, it is an illogical measure. We've been pointing that out since mid-November. We're trying to get the government to do something about it, but so far, the government hasn't come up with any rational solution. I would talk about the problems and the incomprehensible things and the things that change from hour to hour, people can't prepare for it, I could talk about it for a long time, I could talk about the disappointment, the distrust, the fears of people, the entrepreneurs, the very small ones who are hard to deal with all these changes, and I could talk about it for a really long time. But I want to touch on something else, and that's the issue that's discussed repeatedly, the question whether the government is actually in favour of us having certain measures - and I think we all agree that some of these measures are needed and could be done wisely - whether, therefore, the government needs an emergency situation for these measures. This debate has been going on for a long time. We've had a more thorough legal analysis to do this, and the following comes from it. The legal response is, of course, based on a comparison of the powers of the government under emergency conditions, as set out in Sections 5 to 7 of the Crisis Act, with the powers of the Ministry of Health and Regional Hygiene Stations, as set out in Section 69 of the Public Health Act, and these powers can be exercised by both the Ministry and the Regional Hygiene Stations without emergency conditions. Here the comparison in the legal analysis available to us is logical and this dividing line is actually applied by the available caselaw, the one available is yet - I don't know if the word belongs here yet - at the level of the Municipal Court in Prague. From what is shown here, and from this comparison follows the following thing. Indeed, in an emergency - and only in an emergency - it is possible to limit the freedom of movement and residence across borders, limit the right to peaceful assembly, limit the right to engage in business, impose a work obligation or assistance, order the deployment of soldiers in active service and fire protection units to implement crisis measures, order priority supply of critical infrastructure and limit entry into the territory of the Czech Republic to persons who are not citizens of the Czech Republic. These are things that seem to really need an emergency. But - and this is important - even without emergency conditions, it is also possible to implement the following measures across borders at local or regional level: to order mandatory protection of the nose and mouth inside and outside, to prohibit or limit mass events, festivities, theatre, film performances, sports meetings, other meetings, markets, etc., to close or limit the operation of health care facilities and social services facilities, to close or limit the operation of schools, educational facilities, recovery events, to close or limit the operation of accommodation undertakings, to close or limit the operation of catering services or to separate beds in health establishments. These are all measures, I recall again, which can be implemented outside the emergency state, and these measures order either the Ministry of Health, it is clear if they are to be implemented nationally or if they are to be implemented simultaneously for several regions, or regional sanitary stations, if the measures are to apply only to one region, i.e. to pay locally or if you want regionally. And it is clear, and this also follows from the legal provisions, whether there is an emergency or not, so all these measures must always be appropriate, necessary and proportionate to the current situation. And that is what we fear, and it has been shown here in a series of examples that all the measures that the government is taking are not. But I repeat, even from the legal analysis, the government is far from helpless without an emergency. Just because he didn't continue the emergency doesn't mean that everything will open up, that the government can't take any precautions, that we're completely defenseless, that everyone will gather everywhere, that everything will be open forever. It's not true. The government has enough tools to take measures that are appropriate, necessary and proportionate to the situation in a reasonable manner without an emergency. I want to end up very positive. I want to finish, my whole act was very positive, but I want to end up really offering to the government again so that we can look at the things that are ahead of us that are waiting for us and that are very important for us to work together on. A joint AntiCovid team has already been mentioned here, a team of experts that we have assembled, our coalition parties ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09, and which comes with a number of specific solutions. Let me just remind you, President Pekarová Adamová mentioned it here, for example, the public performance of our AntiCovid team today, where experts come up with solutions and concrete suggestions for the modification of the PES system, so that we don't really have to have an emergency situation in the first or lowest stage. There are a number of suggestions on how to deal with it, and there is also a solution on how not to discriminate against wholesale retail. What I think are things that are untenable for any medical or epidemiological reason. [[16.10 hours]] There is also a need to solve problems in elderly homes, how to allow patients or people-clients to get in touch with relatives and family. And what I think is extremely important is the way in which the vaccination plan needs to be prepared and what the government has to do about it. If I really agree with something that has been said here by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, that is the need and the real need to prepare for vaccination, to convince people that vaccination is really the way we can deal with the co-op, the corona crisis in the future. And we all know, either from research or from people's reactions, from the public, from the reactions in our community, that we have a lot of convincing work to do here. So we're ready to discuss with the government. We have experts, we also have the solutions that we are putting forward and where we would like to hear the government's opinion. We're ready to make a deal. We got together, ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09, to join forces to offer an even better solution than individually, and our AntiCovid team shows that this is what they're doing, and I think it's a hand that the government could use. But what you can't ask us to do, and I think I've justified it legally, politically, factually, in fact, what you can't ask us to do today is raise our hand again to continue the emergency. The Civil Democratic Party will not support the continuation of the emergency situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u15	I thank the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Petr Fial. Before I give the floor to Prime Minister and Home Secretary Jan Hamáček, I apologise to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Miroslav Toman, the Minister of Agriculture. Mr. Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior and Chairman of the ČSSD Jan Hamáček are now taking the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u16	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, colleagues, good day. So far, this afternoon is as expected. A short time after the beginning of the meeting, Members at the KSČM announced that they were willing to support the extension of the emergency situation. At that point, it was clear to all those who declared that they would not support the emergency at any cost, because they already knew that their votes would not be needed, and there would be no risk that they might have to vote because I believe that they really can't really mean that we would open it all up on the 13th. Well, we're back in that classic program where one opposition politician after another is performing here, and there's a stick-on-the-head government beating going on for government measures. I want to say clearly, we are beaten for those government measures that in relatively short time were able to download the numbers of the inter-day increases from 16,000 to 5,000. It's not ideal, we wanted more, we wanted even lower, but what you can't question is the fact that the measures worked. And it worked because it was complex. I've been listening carefully to Petr Fiala explain what he could do without the emergency situation. Yeah, but that wouldn't be enough. And we'd be in a situation of braking, braking, but we wouldn't be at $5,000, we'd be at some nine today, and there'd be a view that we'd be able to brake on those five sometime in mid-January, and who knows what the whole thing would look like in health care. Just plain and simple, the government's measures worked. The fact that they're not ideal, and the fact that sometimes a person makes a mistake somewhere, a clerk overlooks something, it just happens. Well, tonight's the hit today is that you don't buy a beer bottle at the pub to take her home. I listened carefully to press conferences and the ratio of questions about beer bottles and possible increases in the sick and the dead, that was about one in five. We're all wondering if these people can buy that beer, but what would happen if they didn't pass the emergency situation, that we'd flood hospitals with sick people again, that they would rise up the number of deaths, that the health system probably couldn't take it the second time, because those people are tired, they're doing shifts, they're talking from the last, and here half of the House would be willing to declare that it's just not gonna vote for it, no matter what happens if the devil rides a goat. But as long as we're dealing with the petflake. Yeah, there's been a mistake, the Health Department will fix it, and from tomorrow, people in the pubs will be able to buy it. But from my point of view, it kind of illustrates the quality of the debate that's going on here. I would welcome it if this 14-day stock market of ideas is happening here in the Chamber of Deputies, and everyone offers some good solutions, so let it take place, but for God's sake, why do we associate it with a major battle for being and not being the emergency that we have made fetish, virtually every two weeks. Did you make a fetish? I've got swamped e-mails from desperate citizens that you've convinced that ending an emergency is a miracle that's gonna take out a covid. They end up in an emergency, they end in a covid, and it's gonna be all right here, and all the trouble that's bothering us is gonna disappear like a magic wand. This is the real situation, this is what people believe in, and it's because we've been patronizing this emergency institute here, and we're inspiring hope in people, or you're inspiring people to hope that when the emergency situation is over, it's going to be okay. It won't. If the emergency stops prematurely, it'll be a mess. And a mess of such size that it can overshadow even the months that are behind us and that were definitely not easy. And if it's because of the enormous efforts of the people on the front line and to some extent their self-sacrifice, because it was the maximum deployment, so we chose that turn after two rounds, I'm afraid it might not happen again. And I understand, of course, that there's some kind of political conflict going on here. I understand the opposition is here to criticize and beat the government, but it's kind of double-edged, or it's a two-faced policy. There's always someone from the opposition coming out and tearing down the government like it does wrong, and it ends with the other face and says, well, we're ready to work together and pull together. And then, of course, he won't forget to add that the government doesn't really have any trust in society, because people don't trust her and they're confused. Well, of course they're confused when you've been telling them how bad we've been doing it. And if there were any attempts and challenges to pull together here at the beginning, there was no strings attached here, people are getting sick that whatever the government does is wrong, it's a disaster, and if there were opposition colleagues, it would, of course, be much better according to their rhetoric. This, of course, does not encourage people to trust in any way, and unfortunately, it has been the way in which this Chamber of Deputies is debated and escalated lately. I don't want to drag other cases in here, but think of the subject of Bečva. An environmental accident investigation has made a de facto political show here, where there has been a live investigation, here in the Chamber of Deputies, and unfortunately it has led to the fact that someone has touched on their life. In this case, we are accused of criminal incompetence, different individuals tell us what to do with each other, what we've done, what we're responsible for. It ends with the second minister having to get security because they're threatening them with things that are beyond the border. The company is just polarized, and at the worst time, it feels like the state isn't pulling together, but one of them is pulling in, the other one's coming in, and it's messed up. Of course, there will be various misinformations that are called for here to be refuted. Well, if we didn't have to stand here every two weeks and spend the whole day here, then maybe time would come for the misinformation. But maybe, too, if the opposition wants to step up, from time to time, I'd like to welcome some statement from the opposition authority as to what's going on with the misinformation. Maybe it would help, and maybe it could be the beginning of some cooperation, because I agree with you, it's killing us, and it's ruining the company. But unfortunately, I don't see much of the will after cooperation here. [[16.20 hours]] We've got some kind of system that's been called for a long time, the so-called PES. Everyone, I think, welcomed him. Well, it lasted about a week. Then at the last meeting, various suggestions started to fall on how to rewrite it. It looked like a seminar where everyone writes their "dog" and then we make it a compromise mix. Well, it's moved into a situation that opposition colleagues have written their own "dog" and now we're probably going to discuss whether the government's PES is going to pay or whether we're going to add or take the opposition's, and it's going to be a mess again. I am glad that we have at least managed to agree that there has been an offer to opposition parties, not everyone has used it to participate in the Central Crisis Staff meeting. Maybe there's some things we can talk about over there. But the way we all run things together, we're not gonna get far. Because the epidemic won't end. This epidemic isn't gonna end with vánoce. So if the result of this debate is that the KSČM proposes extending the emergency state to the 26th, if I count correctly, then what will be the effect? We'll meet here on the 22nd, I suppose we won't be here on Štěpán, and here the wheel will repeat again. And again, colleagues from the right will hope that the KSČM will add 14 days again. Because it's just the emergency... and we're not gonna be in any second or first degree where it might go without an emergency. That's not what the numbers say. The numbers say it'll be a miracle if it's on three next week. I think you're sleeping on four. And it shows that the fight will just be long and unpleasant. And I agree with those who say the solution is vaccination. But again, not a drop of vaccine has arrived yet, and it's all wrong again. The government is preparing here, the minister and his team have spent a lot of time on this, preparing a vaccination strategy. We discussed it today at the Central Crisis Staff. We'll make a date after the agreement with Mr. Governor Kuba as the head of the Association of Regions, who, unlike colleagues from the ODS, approaches this here constructively. And we have an agreement to discuss this in the context of the video conferencing with the chieftains. We agree to discuss what is needed, what the role of the regions will be, what the logistical needs will be, and so on. And then it can go off. But here we really don't even know which one of these vaccines is coming first, but we're already hearing from opposition politicians how wrong this is all going to be and that we've chosen a stupid vaccine because the Němec have a different one and they'll have it sooner. Europe will have it all the same, because it is waiting for the approval of the relevant European agency. But even the vaccination shows that we haven't even started yet, but a lot of people here in the House already know how bad it's all gonna be. And in an atmosphere like this, people are supposed to go and get vaccinated? You call for unity here, you call for it, convince those people, the only way to save yourself is to get vaccinated, and at the same time you tear down the project, you haven't even read it yet. This is unfortunately the current sad reality of the Czech Chamber of Deputies. I'm glad the KSČM decided to give the votes. We bought it, or it's gonna give us another 14 days. The opposition can prepare another speech in 14 days, as we do wrong, and meet here on the 22nd. But believe me, watching the debate in the world and the arguments that the government's been given a blank check for 31 days. Here are the states that have voted out emergency states sometime by mid-spring next year. Nobody cares because they just know they can't do it without the emergency. Only we have the Czech specifics that we're going to do it again sadomasochistically every 14 days, and these people are looking at it and they don't believe their own eyes. I know I'm not gonna change that, because it's the perfect place to present, it's the perfect place to bathe in this government. But maybe if we agreed to extend the emergency by 30, and then put it in the middle of the day once every 14 days, a half-day debate about how it looks, it might be more meaningful and, in any case, more understandable from the public point of view. Believe me, we don't enjoy this in the government, we're doing our best to handle the situation. But mostly all those who are in direct contact here are doing what they can, but a lot of them can't. And what they're hearing from this debate isn't likely to give them hope. It's a shame, but it's true. Still, I still think we're gonna make it. But it would be easier if there was a greater will after cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. We continue to perform with priority rights. For the club KSČM Mr. MP Ondráček. Mr. President Jurečka will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, gentlemen, ministers, colleagues, I have listened, I think, to almost all Members with priority rights from opposition parties. So I guess I'll finish it. All I've actually heard so far is that the opposition parties won't support the extension of the emergency situation, unison, all of them would basically go to the end of the emergency situation from Sunday this week. Of course, I'm aware of that. It's their policy, their decision. I just didn't hear how they'd proceed. What they would do, how they would sort of deal with it. There have been some outlines here, but it's always been the same in the general plane that should be done, how should be done and what needs to be done. I think almost everyone knows what should and should and should and needs. Even the guys at the pub who discuss it, because there's always a lot of options. But making a piece of that decision is never easy. And maybe I had to make one decision now, too, when I had to make some recommendations to my fellow Members at the parliamentary club. The question has been raised as to whether an emergency is needed at all or whether we can follow the Public Health Act. It was quite analytically described by President Fiala, who gave a list of what the government can do in an emergency and what it does not need the emergency for. The list was very good. And I'm gonna stop by the one item that's closest to me, and it's very important, because that's where we saw the need for an emergency. And the deployment of the army and firefighters was mentioned. I have been at the meeting of the Central Crisis Staff for a long time today, unfortunately it took the government a very long time, with some colleagues from the opposition parties. So I thank the government for coming to the conclusion after such a long time, I guess they suspect that the emergency could take a number of months and that some things could be consulted with us because those consultations are needed. So, if I remember correctly, it was said that the army was now deployed under emergency conditions in those two months in essentially 61 places, if I remember so well. Maybe not exactly, but I'm sure 60 fell in. I am aware of the deployment of an army that took or takes, perhaps it will still take, at the Medical Rescue Service of the capital city of Prague, where the army functions as a controlling or possibly other functions for almost two months. And why does it work for us? Well, because the Medical Rescue Service has probably more exits or lacks doctors or medical paramedics. [[16.30 hours]] I asked the Central Crisis Staff today how the security forces are doing, how many people are missing and how sick we are, or possibly quarantined. Unfortunately, I forgot the numbers, but I'm able to get it out of my head a little bit. 4.5,000 members of the Police of the Czech Republic are not on duty for any reason. This includes another 1.5,000 people who are quarantined or are COVID positive. That means there's a plus minus 6.5 thousand police officers missing for direct duty. The police president wrote in the report that it was about 11-12 percent, possibly a larger number. The prison service wrote me the numbers plus minus 600 convicts or the people performing the sentence or the bonds that are now under quarantine, and several hundred members, 150, some base, plus the other stuff. If you recall, last week we were dealing with a legislative emergency law where we allowed the Police of the Czech Republic to replace the Prison Service if necessary, because the Police Act in Section 22 already says that if the police can't handle, they can call an army, customs and Prison Service to carry out the duties of the police. The prison service had no such thing, now it's in the law, because such a situation may occur. The prison service cannot shut down any department, not one prison, because it still has more than 100 percent of its capacity. As it works in some prisons, I'd rather not mention it, that's another place. So these are all the people who are on that front line, they're the most important to me, including the paramedics who are there and who, as mentioned several times, are on full speed, at full power, they're still beyond their performance and they're on their way. We called on students, or ordered the work of students, medics, paramedics and students of the last years of high schools of health disciplines, several hundred of them were deployed, of course we also solved the problem of whether it was deployment - Dr. Kaňkovský mentioned it, I think, today - completely optimal and if it could be solved differently etc. And I liked the Central Crisis Staff that they were looking to solve problems and, if possible, to solve them. And that was the spring Central Crisis Staff, and it's still happening in this autumn Central Crisis Staff. That's why it's a central crisis to make it operational. So it's happening, it's working. But without the people who are strengthening the paramedics today, the people on the front line, without the soldiers, the firefighters, it would just, let's face it, not be possible. I couldn't. And if we want the total collapse of Czech health care to come, then let's go the way you propose to end the emergency situation at 24.00 this Saturday. We're trying to be responsible, and we took note of the data that came in when the emergency broke down last week on Thursday. At first we thought it would be Monday, the government moved it to Thursday, and suddenly, after five days, new data comes in with new growths, and suddenly we see something wrong. But let's ask ourselves why it is wrong for the Minister of Health to say that the incubation period is between seven and ten days. That wasn't the release, that was the fourth stage, and it was the measures before Thursday. That means, the reason must have been something completely different. And we know what? We don't know what. This means that we should give room for experts from the Ministry of Health to find out what is causing this increase, and they should be able to respond to it in some way and take appropriate measures. Measures which, as Vice-President Fiala has mentioned, are appropriate, necessary and also proportionate. The discrimination of wholesalers against retailers has been mentioned several times. I think that this matter is essentially resolved because the Minister of Health has already said several times that they are ready to discuss this matter, and if retailers meet the conditions given for wholesale, it should not happen in the future, even if the fourth stage had to be re-established, to close these establishments. The same goes for businessmen, no matter what hairdressers, pedicures, upholsteries, whatever. Just if he sets up PES, the Ministry of Health, some rules and a businessman will comply with them, there shouldn't be any reason for this to happen even if we return to the fourth stage. You know, it should also be important for us, because we live in the middle of Europe, what is the situation abroad. And that is the most common thing we are dealing with, how are colleagues from Austria, Germany, Slovák, Polák. The rakušák, if I had a good sense, have blown the winter season. Basically, we can't get there without quarantine. As far as I know, Bavaria canceled the so-called. small border traffic, i.e. You're not going shopping there anymore. The Němec, if I've registered today as part of the Central Crisis Staff, should introduce a nationwide lockdown around Christmas. So that's the situation. As far as the Polák are concerned, we know that the contagion is even greater and the measures that are. I just spoke briefly with the Minister of Health a moment ago, and I responded to what Honza Hamáček, the Home Secretary, said, that it would probably be good for the government to present us with what emergency conditions, possibly. similar emergency measures are abroad and for how long they have done it, including what they can. The minister said they already have something like this, and it would probably be good if we got it. Because, friends, colleagues, we are not the only countries living in Europe in a state of emergency. They are basically all the countries around us, essentially the whole of Europe is struggling with this fight. The development of this disease is dynamic and cannot be said in advance as it develops. We may have some assumptions based on some developments and statistics, but we may not always have to be evaluated. So, as I mentioned, the incubation period is seven to ten days and we opened four or five days ago, respectively. they went from fourth to third grade, although now we are almost back to bringing the fourth stage, even with other restrictions, so we, as a club of the KSČM after the discussion and including the fact that we discussed with the Minister - and thank you for that - agreed that we would propose to the honourable Chamber of Deputies to extend the emergency situation to - I will allow myself to correct the Minister of the Interior - 23. 12 inclusive, precisely so that the government has the opportunity to evaluate the data that is coming, which it will have in the course of this dislodgement, and I suppose it will be able to find out if it only goes a little bit, where there are outbreaks, possibly. Where are the places where the transfer takes place? And in case there is a need, we are ready to renegotiate this matter on the 22nd, when, as the Minister mentioned, there will be a House meeting. So I introduced our proposal for the club KSČM - 23. 12. Including. We do not want to be like colleagues from other opposition parties who say that the government does not need anything anymore and that it has failed everything because the lives and health of our people are more important to us than politics here in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. President Marian Jurečka, who is not in the hall at the moment, is next with priority rights. It is next for Mrs Kateřina Valachová with priority rights for the ČSSD club, and Minister Blatný will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, fellow Members, allow me to follow up on previous negotiations on the emergency situation where it has been extended, so we are here again to discuss how to go further, how to combat COVID-19 effectively and ensure the safety, health and lives of our citizens, because I believe that this is our only common and clear goal that no one is questioning. [[16.40 hours]] During the last meeting, I spoke about some of the things that are on our mind, our social democracy club, and we await and wish to resolve them. The first issue was the reopening of homes for the elderly for the loved ones, who, in the long term, did not have access to homes for the elderly in terms of the safety of this vulnerable population group. I am glad that in recent days and weeks, not only have there been antigen testing, i.e. those outsiders who enter the elderly homes, but that it is because of this that visits between loved ones and after long often weeks and months could be renewed. Here I fully agree with my previous speakers that this is a state of aid, and I am glad that it has succeeded. The second thing that was on our mind was to ensure that our high school and college students' work obligations were terminated as soon as possible, because if we started a new system of PES and we follow it, it is fully appropriate that our future graduates and future graduates of medical health professions in universities fully prepare and educate themselves to successfully complete their studies by graduation and diploma, so that in June or September they should become fully qualified workers who will take care of the health of our citizens and provide them with social care. Thank you for succeeding here, too, and the Minister of Health has confirmed to me today that this applies not only to college students but also to high school students, to agree to end the employment obligation and to renew the education of our children. Thank you for that. Likewise, from the perspective of the next matter that we discussed, our concern was that our schools should be opened up to the maximum, our children's education will be renewed, and that we at least allow our teaching staff free and available testing. This too has been fulfilled in those last days and weeks. Likewise, on the basis of the House's resolution, but also of our formulated opinion, a different approach has been removed to open small businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises. That's what happened. And that's a good thing, and I thank you for that. At the moment, I believe that the most important thing is the provision of health and social care, and therefore also the safety, health and life of citizens. If I have said that we are pleased that some of the things that we considered important to support the continuation of the emergency situation have been fulfilled, it is also fair to point out here in the Chamber of Deputies that, if we rejoice in the termination of the employment obligation of our high school students and college students, we must also honestly admit that this is why we need to continue the emergency situation, because in order to ensure the functionality of health and social facilities in the regions, we need to be able to use the assistance of police, firefighters and other armed forces. It wouldn't have been possible without an emergency. I also want to say that in the following weeks, in the case of employees, I consider it important to continue with what the government has set out in the past days and weeks, and this is therefore to ensure that, in the case of workers at work, there are greater opportunities for employers to test, of course free testing, and also to remove the concern of a number of employees. Therefore, if the employee is found to be positive, or if quarantine measures occur, there will also be a loss of income, which, for example, in terms of repeated hospitalization or quarantine is and can be a threat to our employees in terms of ensuring their basic life needs. I also welcomed in this regard that the government is preparing a new solution to sickness. In a similar way, trade unions and trade unions call for solutions to protective equipment. Here I point out that the entire Labour Code does not respond enough to ensure protective equipment within the COVID-19, and I would like to see this as the House and Members in the next few weeks. Finally, I'd mention businessmen. Many of them are turning to me by asking after they appreciate that the differences in access to small and medium-sized businesses have been eliminated, and it is good that governments and ministers, especially the Minister of Industry, ensure that the so-called covido applications are processed as quickly as possible, their extension and, let's say, tuning, because everything still doesn't work to 100% in practice. They point out that many of the covid's aids have not yet been implemented and paid, although Christmas holidays are coming up, and of course even small businessmen and middle entrepreneurs are dealing with what everyone else is dealing with, whether they are in employment or, say, business relations. Here I would also like to point out that, no doubt, in the coming days and weeks, we will finish our efforts to have new rules for so-called reduced work, ugly after the Germanic term, Kursarbeit, because this is also the thing for which businesses are waiting. I therefore believe that an emergency is the legal framework that we need to ensure the health, safety and protection of our citizens' lives, and more and more is changing into a state of aid in these last days and weeks. I would like the Minister of Health to persevere in setting new rules for the so-called PES system and to insist that what has once been set will not be changed, as well as to manage the organisation of tests and vaccinations, as well as to complete important work on pandemic laws. All of these are things that will lead us from an emergency to a normal state. Finally, I would like to say that you are all aware of how much it changes every further and further discussion of the emergency situation, the atmosphere not only here in the Chamber of Deputies, it was well described by one of my previous speakers, Jan Hamáček, as Minister of the Interior, and I think you all feel how different the atmosphere is against spring. I don't have the illusion that we're gonna be able to restore that cohesion and that move to one goal right now in Advent time or before Christmas, just like it was in the spring. Nevertheless, I would like to call for this, because we owe it especially to those who are fighting for the lives of our loved ones and our health at the moment, doctors and nurses. I believe that the next meeting that awaits us just before Christmas Day will bring even more good news of the state of aid and fewer reports of an emergency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. The Minister of Health Jan Blatný will also appear and prepare Mr Birke with priority rights as rapporteur. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you. I will try to react briefly and factually to the comments that have been made here. It's been discussed that the emergency is to shoot the steering wheel. It's hard to spin the wheel if you don't know the road you're on, and we're all on that road for the first time. As far as tracking is concerned, I just point out that most of the countries that many of you take for a role model here either drop or miss it in the vast majority, and there is no failure to track when we manage to travel around 80 to 90 percent in the long term. However, I would point out that, as it is in all other countries, every route will fail when a significant community spread erupts. Our system is set up to some extent to bring down about 6,000 newly infected people a day. At a time when the numbers will rise significantly more, then even with the 1,300 people who are assigned to do so, they will not be able to do so, just like no other country. I also draw attention to a rather substantial issue that, when we talk about community dissemination, it is a bit of a contradiction to talk about so-called. clusters, or, if you will, fire. The moment there's community spread, the cluster itself is losing its sense. Take this, a very simple case, you're going to a pub that day, and you're also going to buy a roll in Tesco. The minute you find out in a few days that you're positive and someone starts asking you where you got the disease, you probably remember the pub, you don't have to remember that Tesco roll. And the moment there's community spread, it's basically just a matter of how long you've been there, and not if you could only catch it at Tesco or just at the restaurant. I'm just pointing it out. As it is called here after that, so that everything is based on some precise data and scientific theories, I just point out that in the community's spread of clusters they are losing their information value to some extent, but it does not deny that we, of course, process these data and we will have them available and you will get them at your disposal. So, in the last few years since the start of dispersal, we've been working on information that individual citizens have reported about where the plague probably occurred. In case it was a hygiene test, it is also mentioned there. I would like to look back on the fact that we have the most death in Europe or in the world. That's not true, please. That's one of the many misinformation campaigns I don't know why she's being run. All I can think of is that we want to scare our own people. That's just not true. We have a disadvantage, I consider it a plus, but the question is, how do you view it, we report our data very precisely in the context of all European countries. So the moment you stop reporting this data or when you won't even report it, then you don't have a problem, of course. Like Slovakia, which basically has no covid deaths. So if we want to go this way and if we want to lie to each other, there's no problem, I can do that very quickly. With regard to 100% disability for people with quarantine covid, I understand it completely and basically I would argue with it to some extent, just please explain to me how, like a doctor who cares about oncology patients to a certain extent, even children, but it doesn't matter how I explain that someone who has coronavirus and quarantine gets 100%, and someone who has leukemia gets only 60%? I can't explain it. It's a thing that leads to some sort of disparateness, although I understand the reason for the proposal. I'm not throwing it under the table, and I'm sure it would cause a change, just pointing out that covid is not a single and most serious disease. As for the several vaccination strategies that we have not sent out here, please leave my office at 9.39 p.m. by e-mail, we have it documented and many of the people to whom it was sent have confirmed that they have received it. So in case everyone didn't get it, I'm sorry about that, but it's a technical error not on my side. So I believe this information will be found in everyone's e-mails. It is also not true that we would choose a vaccine other than Britain, on the contrary, in line with Great Britain as the first one will probably come to Pfizer, which we have ordered. We have ordered or guaranteed quantities for twice the Czech population we need to inoculate, which means about 16 million people, we need to inoculate about 7 million people. It's not true we don't have vaccination centers, we have vaccination centers. There are three levels of vaccination, as they will be applied gradually, as the number of vaccines, vaccination centers in large hospitals, smaller hospitals, and then the practical doctors, or outpatient specialists. But all of this will somehow be made known. But I think that even if you just read the strategy, the general one, as it is now conceived, many of these things will be clear to you. And I actually said that I would send it to the government when the government sees it, because it seems to me that it is correct to show the government what we are proposing on the government first, and then send it to other subjects, however much I respect all of you and all political parliamentary parties, and I have no reason to hide this information. It has also been said that there is no information campaign. Well, please, that's not true either. Since this week, smaller campaigns organized by the Ministry of Health have started, they are in the press, they are on the radio and they are on the Internet. I say again, unfortunately, yes, the state apparatus is a little slower, so the big 50-million-dollar campaign will be competitive by the end of the year, starting with a new year. Yes, it's later than we'd like, I admit it without torture, but it's not true that nothing is running and that we have nothing. I also heard here that we left or killed or did something else with "dog." Please, that's not true either. The methodology is respected as it was from the outset. I've been saying from the beginning that PES is not the only one, but one of the important data, I'm sticking to it, and I don't think we're embezzling from what we've said from the beginning. I just want to point out that if you look again at all the countries that have been quoted here several times, then you'll find that basically all of them, all of them refer to so-called. expert opinion. At least we have a system, everyone else has an expert opinion, and they use parameters that are the same or very close to those we have, including the quoted Germany. I can prove that there is no problem sending you a presentation in this sense. And as I have said repeatedly, both Israeli epidemiological services and Germans consult repeatedly with the UHIS and look at our data with respect rather than with respect. As far as restaurants and hotels are concerned, please just look around at our neighbors again. Everyone's hotels and restaurants are closed. So the fact that we have it open, even with some limitations, I would consider it more like trying to help our businessmen. I completely understand that, of course, everyone would rather go to dinner between 8:00 and 10:00, except for me, but it's really not an intention, it's an attempt to be responsible in some way. I'm sorry it has to be that way, but I'm saying again, everywhere else is closed, and the moment the situation changes in some way, it's all the countries that have been pointed out here, so all these countries close hotels and restaurants first, you can check it out. As far as the Public Health Act is concerned, the proposed amendment that was consulted here last week, so I'm just pointing out that the moment we give up so that the central authority can set the rules, then there's no need for the law to be. To what has often been quoted here, that we are trying to collect data about persons through their mobile phones, please this was based on the so-called. The memory maps that we've been generating since summer, and we'll probably be able to do without any difficulty here, if this is a problem, then it's the first paragraph that's been removed from the law, because even without the memory maps, and if it should be perceived as something that's contradictory, the Ministry of Health absolutely doesn't insist. And I'm just pointing out that the system needs to be set up so that it can really control it centrally. And what was said here that, in the current circumstances, we can apply the methodology across the board, so it is true, but remember the case law of the city court from summer - not when it comes to the whole republic. So it is not true that the current rule of law allows us to apply these regulations across the board. It doesn't allow us. [[17,00 hours]] As far as Prague is concerned, Prague has been better off in the long run as it was in the long run, because it was just at the beginning of the epidemic. And it would be very bad if it were Prague again, who will start to rise. So when we appeal in some way that things don't happen in Prague, so that things don't go wrong, it's an effort to help the Pražan, not to scare them in some way. And it's in Brno anyway. And if anyone's misbehaving in a Brno or a Prague or an Ostrava bar, it doesn't matter. It's nothing that's directed against Prague, at least that's how I feel about myself. And once again, I'm just saying that even though most of us and most of the restaurants and most of the people, of the citizens, are following something, so is the minority that somehow makes it easy, messing with everyone's health. It's not a threat again, please. It's just a medical statement. Then we also talked about the need to respond in some way to the current situation. Once again, I'm just pointing out what I've already said, and all the state countries are reacting in a very similar way. Please compare the information that comes from other countries. They're not different from what's going on with us. They really aren't. All-social testing, his offer, is a very proactive approach from my point of view. It is an effort - I will quote one of the colleagues who came up with it, it is not my idea, but I like it very much - it is an effort by rakes to choose from the lawns the biggest stones that harm it. And it's something that if it can be applied, it's something that reduces the frequency or severity of restrictive measures. We have also heard here that we do not communicate, the Ministry of Health, with those who want to help us. Well, I'm just pointing out that there have been several negotiations with Mrs Langšádlová with our press union. As far as disinformation is concerned, we work with CTH and Semantic Visions. So it's not true that the information, disinformation campaign isn't going on. He's gonna be part of the big campaign. So, yes, you can say again, everything can be done a little better, I'm not defending myself. I'd just like to make sure that there's not a whole lot of arguments, like that there's nothing really going on or that everything's completely wrong. Because it's really not true. When we were talking here about it being, and I strongly support it, and from the outset I suggested that it be across and around the political spectrum. So when I joined my office, I said that I would very much want something that would be an advisory body of the Minister, where all representatives of all parliamentary political parties, all economic chambers and other similar professional organisations would be offered to participate. A week ago, because it's taking a while, I sent out an offer here to send my expert into this. It's not an A.K.U., it's something completely different. And it's not an attempt to turn political responsibility over to you for the Ministry's decision. It's an effort to make sure you know everything first. Nothing more, nothing less. So I'm just repeating this offer. Again, there is no coercion or any attempt to get out of it politically. It's my personal and health department's offer to share this information with you first. The changes that we see, and it has already been said here several times, are really given so far by what happened before the release. We'll see the unwinding at the end of this week and the beginning of the next one. So the moment something went terribly well at first, everything was falling and getting better, and now it's getting worse the last week, so it really means that the measures have stopped working. And the only reason they stopped working is because we stopped following them. There's no other way, that's not the invention of an evil Minister of Health. That's just the way it is. So I understand, I just want us all to know that what's happening is happening because the measures stop working. And we all have to figure out why this is happening. I have already discussed the case-law of the Prague court, that was the comment that related to the comments made by President Fiala. And the last thing, just as my colleague here said about those high school kids, I'll be more specific. This regulation in the context of the Government's crisis measure on termination of employment, it was really just about medical students, originally, because last week the social services sectors sounded that they would not be able to do without high school students and high school students, however, at the Central Crisis Staff meeting today, as I have information, this has already fallen, so it is possible to release high school students and it will be realized very quickly, again within days. So these were my comments and thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u23	Have a good afternoon. I now have only one Member with priority rights. And on behalf of the KSČM Club, Mr Leo Luzar will perform. And with priority rights - Mr Mihola, are you authorized by the KDU-ČSL Club? So then Mr Mihola will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u24	Mr President, Prime Minister, Madam Secretary, Minister, I think we are now witnessing a game that I am able to sum up in one sentence from the citizens, and we are all getting it by e-mail: I hope you will not support this Babiš! And now I ask, is this Prime Minister Babiš the one who makes his own decisions? Is it him, the deus machina that is when he wakes up in the morning and says, "It will be so"? I think that a little bit of reason here, again, means that there is a Minister of Health who has a large apparatus under him that prepares the documents, decides and analyzes, and deserves a little trust and it would be worth thinking about how we present this apparatus to citizens and how this apparatus that he prepares and works, and I believe that these are people in their place, professionally competent and with great responsibility, how they perform and what they give the minister to make that decision. The Minister of Health has one huge advantage. He can explain by working his entire professional life with children. He is logically able to explain a complex problem, because, of course, when he tells the truth about the disease, he has to approach the children somehow. It turns out that he's handling this quite well with the microphone just by the way he talks and presents these data. But still, we should have some confidence in them, and we shouldn't get involved in the decisions that we're making here, that Minister Blatný accepts it, that Prime Minister Babiš accepts it, because there are people behind them. Maybe it's a mistake that they don't say what the debates were like about what they're presenting here, what kind of opinion clashes they went through before they decided to make any decisions. But I firmly believe that this is not an individual's decision. If it were an individual's decision, then all the people on the right who criticize it are right. That's why I think it's worth a little cool in here, and to approach these things, that it's not the personal opinion of Minister Blatný, who's presenting us here, but it's the opinion of the people he's discussing and who oppose him. Who call him different opinions, and he has to choose in his position which side of the experts he will lean on. I consider this to be the basis for us to realise, and for citizens, that this is not really the decision of one person. And to sum up the phrase "I hope you don't support this Babiš guy," I just have to say no, 'cause that's not what this is about. We have a situation here that doesn't depend on one person's decision. He's just personifying the government as Prime Minister and patronizing the government. But if we're gonna talk about it, we should stick to the facts, take the facts and evaluate the facts. The experiments are here, and they sound like we're looking at the facts. Yes, the government makes a lot of mistakes, and we can tell each other that, and we can talk about each other's mistakes here, and we can say who made the wrong decision. The government even admits it and tries to deal with it. If he's handling this in time, if he's handling it well, we can evaluate it. I suppose the government evaluation is also ongoing. The Minister, with his officials, evaluates this and seeks a solution. But what bothers me and what I would like to highlight from this place is access to things that are already being discussed publicly and which I lack the timely opinion of the Ministry. There was a debate a while ago about vaccination, vaccination. The minister mentioned a vaccination plan that should be. I personally didn't receive it, if it was sent today, I don't have it in my mailbox yet, and I couldn't get to know it. Yet the questions that are being raised might be worth specifying. Because we're witnessing a big media campaign. Large media campaigns with citizens' confidence. With confidence of citizens in the health system of the Czech Republic. And those questions are raised, and quite rightly so. [[17.10 hours]] Minister, when you talk about the vaccine we're supposed to buy or get from the EU, do we already have the freezers bought at minus 70 degrees? Do we have distribution sites that will be equipped like this? Are we able to respond when the first shipment of vaccines comes next week? Or is it going to be stored somewhere and we're going to do it ad post? The emergency situation we're approving today is also linked to the need to secure distribution. And will it be necessary for those folders that ensure this distribution to work under emergency conditions? Or is it outside this system? We passed the vaccination bill and talked about insurance companies. Have the insurance companies agreed on the distribution system? Because the point in the law was that insurance companies have to find a match. Have we got a match yet? Do we know about her? Or is it just an act? Because if this is happening, I think it's a little over five minutes past 12 if Europe is already starting to distribute. We should also have a say in this. Britain is starting to vaccinate even. So there's information in the media today about how it's vaccination or not. Those are the questions that are being raised in that space, the media space. What's the education? You were talking about education. We're doing something. Little steps, we're already doing something. But all of us here are bombarded every day by e-mails from citizens who are calling on us to do something radical, clear, exclusive. But I lack the opinions from the other side that could guide us so that we can give a meaningful answer to those citizens. And they require the answer. These aren't anonymous machines that send us e-mails like we used to in the past. I've been trying to answer those e-mails, and I've learned that they're really deadly people who are on the other side, expecting an answer. And they didn't get it from the government, from the ministry, at least through the media. You were talking about the amount of vaccine you bought. Is that enough? I was talking about the flu from this site a while ago, about the lack of influenza vaccines, because - and now the question - who secured them in small quantities, when we have information that the companies were offering to the Czech Republic, have them order a flu vaccine, and the Ministry answered "in the Czech Republic there is very little vaccination, do we need that much"? Turns out there's a shortage of influenza vaccines. I tried it on my own when I wanted this vaccine. These problems are and society lives with this. I'm sure the disinformation campaign is underway. I don't think there's anyone here who says there isn't. It is and is very big and strong. And I'm not mad at these people. I'm warning you, they're drawing on the information they have. Although it is often transmitted information processed perhaps by someone under some purpose, even these people deserve the answer, and the media awareness in this matter should be substantially, substantially larger. I expect resistance to vaccination, when different forces have joined together, which are hard against any vaccination, any vaccination, and in the House, we have experienced these debates when we have passed some laws on general vaccination, not on the pandemic of covid, what it is in that society, how it boils in that society as far as this is concerned. All these groups have joined together, and now they're attacking the very principle of vaccination in society. I'd expect more intensive activity from the ministry in the education system. When's it gonna break out? When will it be? What kind of media is involved? How are you going to handle this to convince these people that the vaccination is good for something and that it works and that they have nothing to worry about? Because you were quite right here about the PCR testing and the other tests that are. How are they used? We already have our first education experience. Pretty low use of those free tests, preventive tests to determine the baseline. Why? Why don't teachers get tested massively? There's talk of distance, time, etc. You dare to be told. But isn't it also a little bit that they're worried about something? Isn't it because the disinformation campaign got in the way here? They just don't feel confident about the testing. And losing trust is the worst thing that can happen to us in these moments. I said, is that enough we've done? I'm afraid not. And if we want to help the government and we see that this is not just a decision of individuals in government, but it is a decision of a group of experts involved in this decision, and the government is asking this House for an extension of the emergency situation, and those reasons can be perceived as petty as useless, as imaginary, but on the other hand, there is a real threat, certainly is, and the government should be able to respond to these matters in order to justify these matters. The emergency can't last forever. We have to realize that. And if the government says we need an emergency for those and for those reasons clearly defined, what happens when the emergency is over? The reasons will appear. You spoke quite in detail about how it is with regional sanitation stations, and you talked about the bill. Yes, it's a problem. The centralisation of sanitary stations is being prepared, or we will use the existing law, which talks about sanitary stations and their possibilities of influence, which is limited. Wouldn't it just be enough to relax this restriction? A simple regulation of the law to say that simply the effect of sanitary stations can be on the whole Republic within individual regions and not on the number of health stations? Maybe. It does not go this way, rather than prepare a comprehensive law establishing some major hygiene etc.? After all, these possibilities are and could be made very easily, just as the following law, which is before us, is a crisis law that clearly regulates the law of crisis in the area of law enforcement against entities. We could have had another point there that would say: and a regional sanitation station can order and maybe it can be in several regions, or in the whole republic, but within the jurisdiction of individual regional stations without being established central. It's a rule of law. There's nothing stopping us from making this adjustment and doing it. Those are the things that come to mind when I listen to this debate that's going on here, and I'm thinking, I have confidence in the government in this thing because it's not alone. And if it were just a matter of the Czech Republic, I might doubt it. But it's all over the world, all over Europe. I mean, governments aren't stupid all over the world. If I take this ideologically, the problem concerns both America and Russia. It concerns both China and Europe. That doesn't have an ideological basis. But there's an enemy, and we've decided to win him somehow. We have forgotten that we cannot win over it, that our basic objective is to protect citizens, prevent the overload of the health system, and that should be the basis of data. That should be what we're supposed to build on, that is, not let the overloading of the health system, so that everyone who feels the need for health finds adequate treatment on the other side. Therefore, I would very much like to conclude our speech in order to abandon the personification that Minister Blatný is responsible for everything, that Prime Minister Babiš is responsible for everything. No. brát us consider that people who have taken some responsibility for their decisions have prepared some documentation and are looking for a solution. I firmly believe that they will learn from the mistakes they have made, but we must regain the trust of citizens. If we don't make it, what's next? And that's what I'm more afraid of than the current consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic. Once again, citizens have a huge mistrust of the steps that are being done, they have a huge uncertainty, they don't know what will happen, they don't see the horizon, they don't see the light at the end of the tunnel, and that's where the uncertainty, the anger in society come from. This is already becoming an anger, it is no longer just uncertainty in the positive sense of "hope something happens" but here anger is openly shown. And I consider that more dangerous than the COVID-19 itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u25	Now I have priority rights here. Mr. Jiří Mihola, on behalf of the KDU-ČSL Club, and the next will be the chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala Club. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Prime Minister, fellow ministers, colleagues, allow me to comment on the issue of extending the emergency situation on behalf of the KDU-ČSL. At the very beginning, I would like to say that we have discussed this matter very carefully at the parliamentary club, in order to find the right way for this country. We didn't deal with it the way that the coalition and opposition, as it sounded here, I guess, from colleagues from the KSČM, that's not our way. We're looking for the right solution for this country. We have decided to support the emergency situation, but we will support it by a week, until December 18th, with one condition. We want the compensation bonus to be increased to 20 000 crowns, as has already been said at our press conference by the President of the KDU-ČSL. So it's not true how it was mentioned here that everyone, that the entire opposition kind of rejected unisono. No, we're looking for a solution, and we think there's no problem, because we're meeting here next week, the House is acting normally, and there's no problem with an emergency situation, if necessary, to extend again. The Prime Minister called the emergency a state of aid. I'm not taking it away from him. But then he obviously failed to explain it well, because I highly doubt that this is how our citizens, the people, would perceive an emergency as much as he did. Well, it was here at least partially, and I understand that it cannot be handled in full detail, to say why we need an emergency situation and that it is, above all, a legal framework that allows or facilitates a number of steps and many important solutions. But even in this emergency situation, it should be clear to everyone in this country that it brings more protection than restrictions, including human rights restrictions. If this is not explained patiently and in detail, let us not be surprised that citizens will really associate this emergency with bans, regulations and restrictions rather than protection and what is absolutely necessary. We're in the same boat, we're hearing from the Prime Minister, or other ministers, or just from the government benches. But is that true? Have the laws that were adopted in an emergency really been dealt with together? I don't think so. I may be honored if we have cases as such, but it's often exactly the same as ever. Coalitions, government coalitions, and opposition. So the ship together when it's convenient. For example, let's do a crisis crew. Before the holidays, I guess, I don't know if in May now or June, he was dissolved, then over the holidays we were hoping he'd be with the covide veto, and she wasn't. And KDU-ČSL offered her expert as soon as it turned out that the covid needed to be dealt with again. And we were repeatedly rejected. And all of a sudden, when it's in the boots, an invitation comes in. Now really - but don't shake your head, Mr. Chairman. [[To Mr. Faltynek.]] Through the President, sorry, I see. [[Mr. Faltynek says it's not about the show.]] So I thought you were reacting... You're not listening at all. Sorry to interrupt the debate. So, you know, an invitation came for one of my colleagues. And as far as I know, most of the opposition parties have refused. I quite understand them psychologically, too. But KDU-ČSL wants to be constructive in a situation that is difficult for the whole Czech Republic, and that is why we are sending our representative, a colleague, a Member and Dr Kaňkovský again to contribute with his expertise to the solutions that will help in favour of the citizens of this country. Dog. I personally appreciate the Minister of Health, Dr. Blatný. And I'm glad the government has at least an expert in its ranks. He really is an expert, and that's how I perceive him. I appreciate the increase in data support and the increase in relevance here in these debates. I'm really, really glad about this. And unlike others, I also understand the modification of the "dog" or other different regulations and measures. Few people are, if any, psychic, or if they know as far ahead as the situation will develop, when it will improve, deteriorate. So it's normal that things change according to the situation, so that it's in order to solve the situation. I would be very, very tolerant here. But what I'm seeing is that there's no more flexibility, or maybe there's no interplay with other ministers, because there's a huge amount of questions. It can't pick up one tablet. After all, colleagues, we know that even though she was on the whole side of the paper, or maybe on two sides even, she couldn't have had all her own box. Those questions are getting bigger and bigger. And it is a question of flexibility and cooperation between other ministries and ministers, so that they can simply respond satisfactorily to these questions. People have a right to them. And most citizens certainly couldn't wait to see one of those major relaxations, and that's the children's return to school. Today we stated on the school committee - and I have to say in a matter of fact, I know that the Minister was here just now, too bad that he... probably had to leave for work reasons, as was said in the apology. Among other things, there were some critical sentences from coalition MPs, from doctors. For example, the question of a drape. And please don't let it be perceived... I wear drapes, my family wear them, I don't question them in any way. I think it's a very important part of the effective fight against covid. But it was the coalition MP, the doctor, that made it clear that baby drapes under ten years of age were nonsense. I don't know. I'm not gonna say it if it's true or not. I don't understand. But many of the questions that go: Does the youngest children really have to wear a drape? It makes sense, isn't it more harm than good? Then maybe I'll ask for an explicit statement from Minister Blatný. And then the question of some quick evaluation, however I know it's very complicated. The rotational training. Is that good? Is that really a good thing, the rotational education at primary school, the grammar school? And then I also know that there have just been numerous questions from high school for seniors. I know we've already graduated mostly. I've had it for 30 years. But, you know, I'm sure you'll remember that they're so-called. graduation seminars, which is one of the most important, actually, folders, and especially in the senior year. And that's where it's made up of more classes. So we need to find a solution to make sense of it. Or say, it doesn't make sense, and it's better to get it done in online teaching. As it was simply said in college, at least beyond Masaryk University, I can say that he will no longer combine the semester and that he will simply complete his teaching online. There are other questions. Of course, I don't want to supply the minister or anyone like the dozens of questions that have accumulated to me because I know that anyone could come in like this, but some of them are really contradictory. I've already discussed so-called with the Minister. forest clubs where I don't take it completely. And I understand there's some kind of legal classification here, but those parents just don't get it, unless it's explained to them in detail, carefully and somehow so that they really take it as their own. When the kids are out in healthy air, and suddenly they're closed. Of course, as Christmas approaches, so they ask, multiply, you probably know it yourself, questions, whether it will be possible to sing, or sing trick-or-treat, or whether we will be without trick-or-treating this Christmas without singing. I know some people think it's secondary, and some people think it's very important. It's just that Christmas is unmistakable, so I'm gonna ask the minister here to comment. [[17.30 hours]] Plus education. It's seemingly, someone would say, a total banality, a question of physical education. Let's just remember that most of these pupils and students are almost not a school year, but almost a calendar year without physical education. There was a time when we were discussing the third period of physical education. And today? And that's not in my head, that's how experts like Professor Kolář speak. What will happen to this generation physically? A mens sana in corpore sano, you all know that. The question of vaccination or testing has already been raised. That's gotta be the government across the street. Let's not expect everyone to swarm when they're overwhelmed with x's duties. Someone's worried, go for the misinformation. This is simply the government's job to get people to take it their own way, and to actually help those teachers with some mobile stations, etc., as is needed in neighbouring Germany, Austria, etc. Finally, I would like to say once again that KDU-ČSL will support the extension of the emergency situation to 18. 12., i.e. by a week, with a request, or with an increase in compensation bonus for businessmen to 20,000. And at the very end, my fellow Members, my fellow Members, human life is the highest value, and so is the case in the covid crisis. Definitely the health of citizens and their lives comes first, but please let us not put aside the consequences in terms of economic, educational and social. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u27	Mr. Dominik Feri, who is the President of the SPD Radim Fiala Club, has now come forward with priority rights and should therefore have priority rights, so Dominik Feri will be prepared. Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, Ministers, fellow Members, as SPD President Tomio Okamura has already said here, the SPD will not support an extension of the emergency situation, because we have been saying since the first wave since spring that the epidemic should be governed by the amendment to the Public Health Act that we do not need an emergency state to do so. Of course, for a lot of people, this is becoming a big economic problem. The vast majority of people no longer have confidence that this system, which clearly does not work, would lead to some outcome. They feel there will be an emergency here forever, to the end of the world. We're approaching a point where I'm afraid people will stop following orders. And the culprit isn't the people that some politicians are trying to tell us, but I think it's government communication. Nonsense restrictions and measures are being imposed that will harm small entrepreneurs and businessmen in a targeted and unnecessary way. I don't think there's any evidence that shopping in a small store is more dangerous than an open supermarket. In a supermarket, in a big space where hundreds and maybe thousands of people meet at one time. In my opinion, more people in one place are a much bigger problem. But that's what happens in other companies. For example, České dráhy. České dráhy will limit connections. I get it, it'll limit the connections because there may be fewer people on the train, but the more people there are on the same train. I think it's another illogical thing. So we could go from one example to another and find out that a lot of these things aren't logical. People realized one thing. They realized the disease wouldn't go away. There cannot be a situation where the economic and social system of society collapses. The impact of such a collapse would probably be worse than the impact of the epidemic itself. It is no longer possible to continue with hard printed restrictions and measures. I think they can work or only be for a short time and we've already missed this time. Perhaps, better said, the government has missed it. In my opinion, the time for a hard lockdown was about two months ago. Today, a reasonable level of preventive action must be observed, the emergency situation put to an end and the targeted effect on risk groups and investment in their protection, as well as the increase in health-care capacity. The government is still talking about protecting risk groups, but in my opinion, it has done nothing for them. They're trying to protect the entire population across the board with restrictive measures that I think lead to what we're seeing around us. It is necessary to invest in these risk groups, for example, by prescribing respirators, disinfectants, vitamins that the government will allow them to buy at a certain time, etc. Who other than a physician knows who belongs to such a risk group? Of course, they're senior citizens, they're disabled citizens, they're chronically ill, and so on. We clearly prefer that the resolution of the epidemiological situation be based on an amendment to the Public Health Act. That's what I said at the start. However, this law cannot be conceived as a dictation of hygienists without public control, i.e. without government control or also the Chamber of Deputies and Parliament at all. So I repeat once again, the SPD will not support the extension of the emergency situation, and we call on the government to take other measures that will not affect Czech businessmen, entrepreneurs so that they will lose their revenues, because the compensation, though the government is trying, will never replace their real incomes that they have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u29	Mr Dominik Feri will now appear and Mrs Hyťhová Hyťhová will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, esteemed colleagues, first of all - Minister Hamáček came to the opposition here to showcase an idea exchange, but somehow he forgot to say that unfortunately there is no wolf from Wall Street and he can't shop on that stock exchange. I will allow myself in my speech to turn to three members of the government, of which unfortunately two are not present, which I am very sorry, and first I would like to speak to Minister Blatný. Honestly, I don't blame people for having doubts about vaccination. No wonder they're asking questions. I am surprised that the government is not responding to them, because while the guaranteed articles from disinformation websites are circulating three times in the Czech Republic, the government is still doing its best. You know, it's not just information that's clearly some conspiracy that the vaccine is God knows what it contains for heavy metals and similar clickbait stuff. But these are relatively, I would say, reasonable questions concerning, of course, the development of the vaccine, which concerns clinical testing concerning the distribution system and comparison, how it is possible to do so abroad, and where we are only now sewing it on our knees, efficiency, immunity and, of course, the consequences of what this vaccination will bring. That means if I get inoculated, what it means to me from the point of view of health and what it means to me from the point of view of law. And these are questions that people just don't get answers to. Why do I think that, and why do I think I'm right that people don't get the answer? The answer to that is, I think there are four, surveys from STEM that show that interest in getting vaccinated is falling, a large number of people still don't know if they're getting vaccinated, they don't have a convincing opinion. Mr. Vice-President of the Government of Hamáček mentioned that the opposition still wants something. We're always asking you to do something! We want you to look forward. First of all, it is not an illegitimate requirement that we want the government to look ahead and not just react. But the vaccination isn't so far away from the future, and above all, if anyone gets vaccinated or doesn't get vaccinated, it's a matter of public opinion. Turning public opinion into such a sensitive matter is extremely difficult. And that's why we wanted the government to set up some kind of campaign that, according to our court, had been going on for a long time to convince people to inoculate themselves. [[17.40 hours]] The government is going to have a very difficult time because a credible government could probably be more convincing, because they are pulling good examples. This government? I'm afraid it's going to be very difficult and we're going to be very difficult to get enough vaccination. And that's my question: how come the campaign isn't here yet? How come he's not running anymore? When we talk about the information campaign in general, it should also involve disinformation. How is it possible that the campaigns are successful abroad, France, Benelux, Ireland, elsewhere? Unified design, everything works together, it plays together. I understand that Minister Blatný has boarded a moving train that doesn't know where he's going, like against a wall. But other members of the government were involved. The Prime Minister, who sits behind me, was involved. Unfortunately, I feel as if the government is waiting for volunteers to show up again and help it, as they helped the government to sell highway signs, as I asked for an information portal with tens of thousands of people a day, where the measures are finally being put to the right level by human speech. And then we hooked it up for 14 days with volunteers from the Czech Republic. Digital, with the Nakita people, in the gallows term. It's happening again. My fellow MPs are telling me I'm crazy, but I'm gonna do it again. So, Minister, I'm offering you, if you don't know how to do this campaign, we're going to help you. We will help you address e.g. young people under the age of 35. There's 850,000 of them. Let's convince them that the vaccination makes sense. Is it worth it? The hand's in hand. To the Minister of Health. One thing that fell here, and I was hoping he wouldn't get up, is the amendment to the Public Health Act. That's the super-office and the super-hygiene, the phone spying, the closing business. That's the thing where the Minister let me down a little bit because I expected him not to become a government cancer. What's a government crayfish? The government's crayfish means you're gonna make a proposal, then you're gonna get a lens, to put it public, and then you're gonna back out of the way that you're not. Of course, it's the classic move of Andrej Babiš, who's going to say, "Well, that's what they did wrong at the Department of Health, that's a mistake, that's not what we're going to do. Classic peacock loop. Well, I hope so - and I looked into the eKLEP that the comments are very sharp from my own government, so I hope it doesn't get here that the government doesn't approve. So much for the Minister of Health. Minister, please, we are willing to cooperate with you on the information campaign, we are willing to cooperate with you, and today we have introduced it to modify the PES system so that it can function without emergency conditions, it has also worked some regional situation and it could function stablely and there was a degree of zero, which is simply not understandable at the moment why the level of zero is not there. It can certainly be argued that this is a bad time after all, that the PES table is up until then, but if it is to be something sustainable and predictable, that is something that needs to be thought of. Furthermore, I would like to address the Minister of Industry and Trade, but I will have to direct this to the Prime Minister, unfortunately, and this concerns restaurants. Not that life in the Czech Republic revolves around beer and food, but it employs tens of thousands of people who are now in a desperate situation. So imagine someone drowning, and the government can use a rope to drown. The drowning one's already catching him, and the government's gonna snap at the last minute. This is exactly the situation that happened with the restriction of opening hours. You know, when you say relax and you can be open by 10:00 p.m., the restaurant guys have to get ready for it. They have to fill food warehouses, they have to sort out people's shifts in some way, so they know when to come, reach out to these people, pick them up often. All of a sudden, not until 8:00. What does that mean? That's not some two-hour thing, like a poof. No, that's actually the whole evening business. The evening traffic is actually gone. That's what you lost. The only way I'd understand that is if my favorite A and B were to be said, that's the compensation. When it's argued here, look abroad, so you can't just look at the fact that there are closed pubs in Germany, but also how they compensate. And the argument by this recent court decision is not convincing, because even in general, these compensatory measures are set up much better, more efficiently, more effectively, faster than in the Czech Republic. Simply compensation to enterprises in the gas station is ridiculous in the Czech Republic. Compensation for gas station workers is also ridiculous. There's nothing we can do. So it's opening hours. Then we have PET bottles. That's also a beautiful example of how the government, like a seagull, invents something, and then says, well, we didn't really mean it, the mistake slipped. And he's backing back because of public opinion. Because it's such a terribly illogical suggestion that any sane government can never even consider it, let alone approve it. Well, what kind of people get behind this place, virtually. The innkeepers, then? Well, first, Minister Zaorálek starts talking for some senseless reason about holding for 48 hours. I don't know what this might be about. Then he's setting it right. Crazy, totally crazy. Then Minister Havlíček and other members of the government both fall into Prague, as this Prague is actually terrible. I'll tell you why. I'll really tell you why. Is it because when you say it closes at 8:00, what do people do about these businesses? They're going on a tram. I'm going on a tram and I'm going home. Do you know how this is handled abroad? That they're set up, like, that the last order goes in at 10:00, and it closes at 11:00, 'cause you put that last order in at 10:00, and somebody drinks that beer for ten minutes, somebody drinks that beer for 20 minutes, and it breaks down in time, and then it's not full of trams. But that would take some head work, wouldn't it? And another example is markets, Christmas markets. I got dozens of messages from thugs who didn't know if they were selling mead as a Christmas present. They can sell it, they can't sell it? That's another messed up thing, too. So much for the gas station question. And the last thing that concerns the gesture of justice. You'd be wondering why the Attorney General should be sitting here. Well, for the simple reason. Because the courts still work, there's a large number of people, there's a Senate, there's a reporter, there's a public, there's a party to the proceedings, of course. And what happened? It happened that while the recommendations of the Ministry of Justice have worked so far that negotiations are not to be ordered, so now out of nowhere, when the situation is getting worse and we've been hearing for a week how terrible it is, how the opposition is again and Prague and God knows what else, the Minister of Justice will quietly change the recommendation and say, well, actually, there's no need for that recommendation, you can order the negotiations. Now the judges are starting to catch up, so those who have not yet ordered these negotiations have not set up an oral hearing, and are starting to order them. And there begins to increase the concentration of people in a situation where things get worse, for a completely incomprehensible reason. Do you know why the president of the Senate can't just do it now, adjourn? Well, because then he might have gotten involved with the delay in driving too. That's what was remembered in the previous recommendation, not at all. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary club cannot support an emergency. After everything the government has done, after everything the government has done and on the other hand has not done, unfortunately, our parliamentary club will not support any extension of the emergency situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u31	So now, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová will appear and prepare Mr Marian Bojko. Now, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u32	Hello. I'll give the Tricolor opinion right to the start. The tricolors will not support any prolongation of the emergency situation by a week or two weeks or thirty days, they simply will not support it. Why? I think there's been a lot of talk here today, but I have some specific things I'd like to mention here, and I've been asked by our businessmen, just by restaurants. Just as you have it in your emails, so my whole mailbox is filled too, especially at this time from our businessmen who are in a very difficult situation. [[17.50 hours]] I wanted to ask you what level of PES we're in. Last week we were in the third grade and after the weekend we were probably in the fourth grade. What does that mean? Does this mean that there will be a complete closure of restaurants and services again and that the restaurants will be lost again? Will it happen again, or will it not? That's my question. Our restaurant owners and entrepreneurs would like to know the answers to these questions. And that is, if our state officially goes to level four, if this happens? In my opinion, the government should at this time look for ways and ways to meet restaurants and pubs. Unfortunately, this is not happening, it is quite the opposite. It seems to me that the government is doing everything in its power to literally undermine our restaurants and honest businessmen's feet. Last Thursday, there was a loosening up of the measures. We've all welcomed it, and so have our businessmen. So they bought supplies, prepared for the opening, and firmly believed that this would last for some time. Unfortunately, on Monday it happened that once again the restaurant was ordered to close at 20 o'clock in the evening time. What does that mean for our restaurants? The fact that tonight is actually crucial to them, I'm sure we all know that. So I ask: Will there be any compensation from the state for these traders? Because this time really is quite trivial, and for them it means that they have to close at 20 o'clock, and of course people go to dinner around me, I don't know, six, seven, eight. So there's going to be another loss at the tradesmen's. So I ask, will there be any compensation? Will our tradesmen receive any help when one day at a time this has been ordered again? That's what I'm asking. I think and think that if our businessmen knew on Thursday that this could happen, many might not even open or simply buy smaller supplies, but that did not happen. They expected that they would simply open up and be able to operate evening traffic as well. So what about the supplies they're supposed to do now? I don't think anyone's gonna answer that. I had a little laugh today when I read the news report this morning. cz, where it was written that the Ministry literally forbids or prevents people from drinking beer at home, that they must not take it into PET bottles. Then came our Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who questioned this, and that from tomorrow of course everything will be in order. I ask: Why did such information take place at all? Why... [[Off the mic: Can I have some peace? Thank you.]] Why would people, if they can't sit in that restaurant anymore, why couldn't they take that beer home? I don't understand it, and I believe that there will be a correction and such pointless measures and words from the government that this will not happen again, because once again it would be a nail in the coffin to our businessmen. That's, I think, okay. Another thing is that this whole system is really very, very messy. One day you'll just read that it's definitely not going to tighten up. On the contrary, the Ministry of Health will say that it will tighten. Mr. Hamáček, the Home Secretary who says he's not going to tighten up. The Department of Health will say it will tighten up. So people basically read a different message every hour, and they don't really know what's next. He doesn't know. Another thing is, if our state returns to level four, does that mean that only large supermarkets can be opened again? Will this only apply to these big chains again? I ask: What about our small businessmen, small, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs? Do we have any relevant evidence that there was a larger increase in the infected in the small hardware store or the shoe store, or that in short, the small tradesmen did not follow these measures, which are actually the same everywhere? I think that if the measures, the supermarket, the hypermarket, simply keep up the big business, why couldn't they keep up in a small hardware store where the concentration of people really isn't so big that there's a line up there that I don't know where? It's nonsense. But what does that mean for these people? That they'll have to close again, now that they've opened on Thursday? Or? I just want to hear the answer to this, if we go back to the fourth grade, everything is telling it so far, if there's a change, and these things, as far as our businessmen are concerned, will be corrected, or can again count on them to close. I think our businessmen would appreciate it if they heard specific answers. So if you want our citizens, dear government, to follow the measures to keep their distance, their drapes and so on and so on, then the government and the ministry must also follow their measures and their words. So if we're in stage three, it's officially still that way today, there's nothing about the fact that restaurant hours should be limited. Is it? So if we're going to do something, if the businessmen are going to do something, then it's necessary for the government to keep what they promise. So we have stage three, so let's do what's in stage three. That's what I think is relevant to both sides. A lot of restaurants and pubs are about to protest these unsystematic measures today. As I said, I am absolutely convinced that most restaurants are certainly responsible for following and following the regulations and measures in question. I went through a restaurant myself last week, and I saw that the spacing was really followed, there were tables and so on. In short, it wasn't like 200 people sitting at the same table or anything like that. No, there's no reason why they wouldn't be open tonight if the measures were followed, why they couldn't be open. I don't see why. The next question to think about is why, when on Thursday, it was only Thursday that measures were loosened up, and the restaurant could open up, if in four days since then, I'm talking about Monday, if we really have the results of this time, that it's necessary to close the restaurants tonight. In four days? How can we know in four days when we have an incubation period that this opening of restaurants has contributed to the increase in the number of covid infected and infected? Do we have these numbers? Do we know that in four, when the real incubation period can be up to a week, 14 days, and so on, that the opening of restaurants really contributed to this? I would understand if this had been dealt with after a month and three weeks, for example, since the opening of restaurants. But we're four days out of relaxation, and we've been hearing from Monday that we need to tighten up the restaurants. Why are restaurants responsible again? Why? Why, again, are we blaming the restaurants that I believe are trying and following the measures that I've seen and what I've seen. They're after their business. And then what happens today and the next few days is that really a lot of restaurants are going to protest, so that even after 20 o'clock they will be open. And that is the result of the government's non-systemic actions. That's how our businessmen respond. Which I think -- or I honestly understand that when we take these kind of nonsystemic measures, our businessmen don't like it at all, but they don't like it at all. [[18.00 hours]] So please the government and I call on the government and the ministry to try to meet our entrepreneurs and businessmen, especially restaurants and pubs at the moment, to try not to have to have such lossy days and evenings, to try to find some alternative and a way to help them, and not vice versa, to add another nail to the coffin, which I believe is happening today. And what I've been saying here has been said many times across the spectrum, so I think we're all aware of the problem. So once again, I call on the government to do something about it and make it clear that the government's support towards our honest businessmen will be, and to hear specific answers to questions. So so much for me, that's probably all I wanted to say, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u33	Good evening, dear colleagues. Next, Mr Marian Bojko and then with priority rights, Minister Blatný will appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I start talking about the issue of emergency, I would have responded to Mr Feri's colleague through yours if we cannot have the factual remarks. He was talking about some disinformation sites, so if he meant Journal N, Journal Referendum, Forum24 and News List, I agree with that. And next, I'd like to say something. Minister Hamáček here, Minister of the Interior, has triumphantly declared how we can talk as we want now, because comrades of communists will support the extension of the emergency situation. So that kind of stopped me, too. Today, the government is proposing an extension of the emergency for another month. It should be noted that this is the same government, which has used for many months the agreed emergency situation to completely chaotic measures, grounded by no statistical data, the closing, the opening of schools, restaurants, shops and establishments, the ban on night curfew and the mandatory closing time in the regulation. I feel like I'm on a swing because it's often similar to catching an eagle in flight to see what kind of regulation applies to me not to be guilty of it. I am a responsible man and a Member, and I would like the same from this government. After a dramatic long time it is not possible to finally allow small businessmen to work with the fact that a reaction for relaxation is waiting for 14 days after our new "dog," but the proposal for a new ban can appear after three days of operation. Well, this pes is really barking. And unfortunately, it bites very selectively. Small Czech tradesmen who feed themselves and their families their lifelong work pay taxes and do not stretch their hands after social benefits here on the fridge, the one on curtains and who knows what else. It's a giant werewolf who wants to strangle them. But he looks like a born puppy who hasn't even grown his teeth. This approach clearly shows who the entire government is rooting for. In support of European values and transnational monopolies, he wants to destroy everything that is Czech, traditional and capable of earning, that is to say to have an opinion and not to be afraid to assert it. Therefore, I refuse to extend the emergency situation and, on the contrary, I propose that it be lifted immediately. The government is supposed to take care of the health of the people, and not under the guise of protecting the citizens to work as a matchmaker for the big ones, and to help them finally destroy the competition. It just seems like the transnational chains are going to eat again, and the government will remain whole. If the government doesn't make valid arguments to prolong the emergency situation, and I haven't heard one of those before, the emergency situation really doesn't make sense. A number of measures, if they were well-argued, would support our citizens on their own and without orders and bans if they knew they had meaning. Instead, we're haunted by pro-government epidemiologists like Mr. Flegr, haunted by thousands dead on the street, in freezer boxes. Fortunately, his prognosis is not confirmed. And I'll take the liberty of making my own. If the government regains an extension of the emergency situation, and it appears that with the help of the communists, it will close down any small businesses again, so we will see thousands of dead small businesses hanging on a hook from the chandelier in their closed premises. God forbid my prognosis doesn't come true. Yesterday I received a letter from a man who wrote to me: Mr. Ambassador, what should I do? I have three kids, and I really can't. Why do we not receive such compensation bonuses as in Germany or England? Shall I come before the honourable House to burn like Jan Palach? People are desperate. And then when I hear a trade union boss like Dufek who never did an honest job in his life, he brags about his 120 grand watch and talks on TV about the need to eliminate those tradesmen who don't earn money, that there's too many of them, whether they go into a fabric or into a montoven that doesn't belong to us and spend huge billions of money on dividends abroad. That's the spirit? I've got a cab driver's friend, he's been driving a cab for 29 years. After 29 years, he ended up a taxi driver. He went to the employment office. Not to mention the fact that some pubs have not even opened, it is said that up to 30 percent of the pubs have not opened because they think it's a complete nonsense to open it for a week or two weeks before the government attacks again. So I don't understand why we didn't go the way of Poland that left the small shops open and closed the big supermarkets. I think that would be a better solution, because every small businessman would keep an eye on the number of shoppers, maybe two, three by the surface. Here's to the numbers. On the basis of all the facts, it is clear that the emergency situation will be restored and was for targeted winding-up of the middle class. In fact, it is done similarly in other countries concerned. People don't die of covid, they die of fear of covid. The fact that they have coronavirus in their tests is a common matter. According to statistics, up to 2,500 people die from the flu each year in the Czech Republic, at the time of the epidemic and much more. Thus, the flu is as serious a disease as covid, but in some miraculous way it has disappeared completely, it does not exist. Why did this apocalypse with corona and catastrophic scenarios arise here? To whom does global hysteria serve? Certainly not ordinary citizens. We obviously support large multinational companies and those who earn money from masks and test sets allegedly needed for the coron. For example, Africa is not panicking, and there is no economic upheaval. So far, unfortunately, we are more stupid than politicians in Africa. The media, the government, and the like should be tried for spreading alarm messages because they terrify people from a flu-like state. If an expert with sound common sense opposes coronahysteria, he is immediately silenced because the truth is forbidden at this moment. Even one of the best Czech epidemiologists and probably the best professor MUDr. Jiří Beran, CSc, was designated the Ministry of Health as a disinformer. Why? Because he used sound common sense and his expertise as a specialist physician and clearly tells how to treat a person with this disease in a simple way. [[18.10 hours]] I quote from his letter to the Minister of Health of the Czech Republic docent. MUDr. Jan Blatný, .: "Dear Minister, we have never met, so please allow me to introduce myself and say a few words about myself. My name is Jiří Beran, I'm a doctor, a candidate in epidemiology, an epidemiology professor named President Havel. Your Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic has given me specialized competence in epidemiology as well as medical microbiology. For three years, I also worked in the field as an epidemiologist, and I had to deal with about a hundred epidemics in that time. For years, I taught epidemiology at several medical faculties. My scientific work is from the epidemiology of acute respiratory viral diseases, vaccination against infectious diseases, especially dangerous diseases and tropical infections. I am the author of eight monographs, which were appreciated by medical companies or the president of the Czech Medical Society. The vaccination was at its time the best-selling medical book in Slovakia. I am the author of many foreign publications. I get one or two foreign quotes a day. In the area of diagnosis, prevention and vaccination against influenza, I am one of the most cited authors in Europe and the US, in particular, for my innovative approach to performing effective vaccination studies. But I am also a practice of medicine, and behind me are many highly appreciated projects such as the Serová banka of the Army of the Czech Republic, which for more than twenty years protects the health of Czech soldiers abroad. I am the author of an international vaccination certificate, which has been used by citizens of the Czech Republic for 15 years and also by Slovak citizens on the basis of the license granted. I am convinced that there is no comparable expert in epidemiology in the Czech Republic who would be engaged in field practice, university teacher practice, scientist and simple doctor, and who would perform his practice and not be involved in leading positions in the state sphere. For the past 19 years, I have been primarily self-employed, and I am proud that the greatest scientific achievements and edition of monographs have occurred to me during this time. I have proved that good work may not only be done by the constitutions of the Academy of Sciences, but also by a simple doctor, and awards from abroad will certainly come. That's why I was offended that I was posted on the website of your ministry in the category "Knowledge Personalities often promote disinformation." I find it inappropriate to associate my name and COVID-19 with misinformation. I am a respected expert in the world, and in the eyes of my foreign colleagues who quote my work and results, I am certainly not a disinformer. I would like to ask you, as Minister of Health and as a colleague, to please have my name deleted from the web, because it is undignified for you and for me. I am an expert in epidemiology with the best erudition in the Czech Republic and with a great foreign reputation and I certainly do not deserve the label of a disinformer to represent my opinions. Today I have read your comments on the situation and I consider it unfortunate. "It is a request that all those who are considered to be role models set a good example and put the gun out of their hands to those who then create disinformation based on their behaviour," Minister Blatný commented. I think that for what I have done for the good name of Czech medicine abroad, I certainly do not deserve to be so negatively associated with misinformation. With a friendly greeting and a wish of all good profesor MUDr. Jiří Beran, CSc." End of quote. I don't know if it was last week when there was a show of 360 degrees on Pavlína Wolf and there was a professor Petráš mentioned several times. And at the end of the show in the last minute, there was this interesting sentence when he said that if this wasn't a bizarre situation, we would never have allowed clinical trials on this vaccine. So I've come to the impression that he himself has doubts about this vaccine. And I ask, in this context, those doctors who are vaccineologists, epidemiologists, why, for example, Professor Beran, the man who has been fighting this all his life, has not become a minister of health. I don't get it. Would this government prefer to continue to exercise totalitarianism according to Orwell - 1984 - and degenerate good patterns? And just because Professor Beran has allowed himself to be an expert on the word taken, the best epidemiologist in the Czech Republic, to be treated with a very effective drug called Isoprinosin, but unfortunately for him and for all of us who are not in line with the global concept of vaccination, and thus with the concept of the current government of the Czech Republic? Isoprinosin belongs to the pharmacotherapeutic group of other antiviral medicines, which means that it is a medicine used against viruses. In clinical studies, the active substance normalized insufficient or impaired cellular immunity to the patient' s baseline values. The product should not only be used if it is allergic to the active substance and the increased level of urinary acid in the blood. Of course, as with all other medicines, side effects may occur with Isoprinosin, but the medicine is prescribed by a doctor, so the patient is monitored and not used in the long term, so mostly side effects may not occur. Try to look at the side effects of Ibuprofen, which is massively used and available for free sale. And what is quite surprising is that neither the State Institute for Drug Control provides Isoprinosin and the active substance Inosinum pranobexum on its website in the COVID-19 survey of the drugs studied. Supposedly, it can cause a cytoxin storm, and that's what Professor Beran contradicted. It states that the use of Inosine pranobex is more of a brake than an accelerator of a possible cytoxin storm because it acts by another mechanism of action. I have the website at my disposal. Will the government really go that way? Does the government really want to participate in the collapse of our economy and record debt with the impossibility of paying back even our descendants in the tenth row? And for what reason? It seems that from ordered global isolation to obtain interest on huge debts for bankers and multinational corporations. Soros has already said, borrow, you don't have to pay back the principal, pay only interest. And apparently our government has listened. On the basis of questionable evidence, false concern for health is expressed, but it is rather an effort to make the population sick. Our scared seniors have been locked up for months, and there are boogers flying around in suits. And that's their protection? Is this how you want to live before the end of your life? Even in prison, criminals are better off than our seniors. Supposedly, this is how we protect seniors, so the procedure is that even if seniors are to die of fear or loneliness, the main thing is that they won't be positive for covid in the test. Instead, we should be interested to see that our seniors' lives are dignified and have a true quality of life. We also don't test them for the flu because of a bunch of other microorganisms. Neither, so let's stop testing for covid, which does not show values other than a similarly serious disease such as the flu. It even seems that covid is less serious according to current values in the Czech Republic than the flu. Let's look at the previous values. According to today's international database, 556 927 inhabitants in the Czech Republic were tested positively, of which 9 136 were killed with covid. When we realize that according to the data on the Ministry of Health's website, about 20 percent of the tested are positive, we are based on the number of tested 2.8 million inhabitants, which means 0.32 percent of the deaths with the covid on the number of tested. It should be noted, however, that there is also a need to include another part of the population, because many of them have encountered positive ones and have not even been tested. Considering that these more than half a million positive tested populations have encountered three persons who have failed testing, which makes about 4.5 million people overall with all tested population, in this case even with a sober assessment of 0.21 percent of the deaths with covid, so less than for influenza, which is reported to be around 0.23% mortality. I'm warning you that the deaths were with the covid and not the covid. And there's one more thing I'd like to do. We're talking about a deadly pandemic, but today, when you're going to donate blood, no one's testing you for what they see. The same thing when my daughter-in-law gave birth last week in the maternity ward and no covid test was done either. So we're not going to prolong the emergency for us, but I know it's no use to us anyway, because the comrades will support it. All I'm saying is you're digging your grave for the next parliamentary election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. Mr Kubíček with priority rights - procedural proposal, I presume.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u36	Yes, thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Gong.]] I would like to propose, on behalf of two clubs, YES and ČSSD, that we act in a territorial manner and vote in a procedural manner after 19 and 21 o'clock. It's not to this point, but as you can see, there's a crisis law on the board, and that wouldn't be possible without this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u37	I will vote on this procedural proposal. Do you really want to check out? Okay. I checked you out. So that this meeting doesn't end before we started. [[Gong. He's waiting.]] So there are still few of us. [[Gong.]] I'm gonging. But I think it's gonna work, because the MPs are... it's okay, I think it's gonna work. We're still down to seven, so we'll get it together. I'll wait a little longer. Three, two, one... no. Three more. Two. One. Madame...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u38	Mr President, I'm taking a five-minute break from the CSSD club. [[No, there's always enough of us.]] Okay, I take it back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u39	Yes. I'll have the vote that we'll be negotiating after 7:00 p.m. until the hearing. Excuse me? [[Voices from the diaper.]] Even after 9:00. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 5. Seventy-five Members registered, for 56, versus one. The motion was accepted. The rapporteur, Mr Birke, is just a technical question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u40	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry to be ahead of the Minister of Health. I have listened very carefully to the Member, Mr Bojek, and I would like to ask if I understand correctly. You suggested in your opening speech that you want immediate cancellation of the emergency? I take it I'm supposed to take that as a suggestion, which means, to date, twenty-four zero? I get it, okay? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u41	Thank you. [[Noise in the hall.]] The Minister of Health will perform with priority rights. Please, you have the floor. And I'll ask for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again, I will try briefly to respond to the things that we have now discussed. So let me just remind you that at the beginning of the debate, it was said that Germany would inoculate 15. 12. Please, it won't. It won't, it hasn't been approved and it won't be 15. 12. The vaccine has been approved for Germany or for anyone else, and until the EMEA has approved it, no one will. The only exception is the UK, which has taken advantage of its state of departure from the European Union, and has used the section which the Czech Republic also has in its law, we could also grant this exception temporary approval, but we will not do so because, like other countries, we will wait for final approval. Therefore, we still have some time, specifically estimated by others, for about six to eight weeks after approval, it can start to vaccinate because there is a logistics chain and so on. So I'm just pointing it out so we know about this so we don't fall into some kind of depression because of something that isn't really going to happen to us and it's not going to happen to anybody else. There's enough vaccines, there's not enough and there's not enough, that's a very simple thing. Freezers for minus 80 in those vaccination centres that are built on the basis of large hospitals, especially in the first part are available and this is obviously communicated, because as part of the strategy, as we will keep you informed. As far as the use of teachers' tests is concerned, really at first the interest was smaller, gradually increasing, and since we have a reservation system, we know that it is starting to accumulate on the very last days before the 18th, because logically this is the time that teachers want to use to test themselves before Christmas. I completely understand, because then the interest of all the population will probably be even greater. The testing centres work until 6:30 p.m., which means the educator who wants to get there will get there, regardless of the fact that in view of this extraordinary measure he has to get a leave of absence from his employer. So whoever wants to, I'm sure they can test themselves. I'm just reminding you, too, that hygiene and even the changes in the law aren't just because of the covid. Let us remember that it has not been that long since we had one of the best sanitary services in Europe. Unfortunately, we completely broke it, just like a lot of other things that worked well, and now it's necessary to fix it in some way. Whether it's with this law or not, that's obviously a question, but I don't think that law... Now I can't remember how it was quoted as a cat dog. He's just going through the review process, he's got his pros and cons, and he's gonna keep going, and the minute you decide he's gonna be accepted, he's gonna be, if you don't approve him, so he's not gonna be accepted, that's okay. If we're talking about singing at Vánoce, I'm pointing out that as it's set up now, it was consulted with the Bishops' Conference and it's their proposal, which means they themselves suggested that mass singing and handshaking should be excluded during the services at the reception of the room. So here, we humbly follow what's been proposed, and I don't think it's any evil will on the part of the Ministry either. As far as different predictions are concerned, we also approached STEM, I have already said this here, already 40 percent - or 39, be it precise - respondents are for vaccination, 40 percent is against vaccination, 20 percent is undecided. And it is our common task to give these people enough information to make their own decisions freely. I welcome Mr Feri's offer to address young people. I know he's very handy in this, and I'm not defending him at all, we're going to discuss it outside the Chamber of Deputies, thank you for that. As far as emergency conditions are concerned, I simply point out that the number of bonuses currently paid is also due to the fact that there is an emergency. So I'm just pointing out that the moment the emergency stops, many of these bonuses will stop. That's just like the information we're working with, and let the businessmen we're referring to work with work. Urban public transport is prepared and signed by me, ready to send a letter to the Union of Municipalities and Mayors of Large Towns to strengthen public transport, because I agree with you that when people can move even in the night hours, so having limited public transport is not right and will only lead to cumulation and increase the risk of disease, we are in agreement. As for the "dog" and its degree, the transition to four, so I have said there several times that if we have to do so, which I do not rule out, and I do not rule out that it will happen at a time that is foreseeable, it will be done so that large chains will be placed on equal footing as small businessmen, traders and service operators. Then it was mentioned several times that the government or we blame everything on citizens, that they behave irresponsiblely, so I'm just here to read you one of the many reports that I get from editors, this is from one of the frequently read periodicals: Good day, Minister. What do you say there were people with alcohol in their hands in the streets of Prague last night and at 1:00 p.m. last night? Specifically, they were directly businesses across the street from the Bartholomew Police Department. According to the police officer present, nothing applies to these people. - So I'm just saying, like a lot of decent people, there's just a lot of people who make fun of it, and that's true. And the changes that are happening now, and I will repeat myself again, are not yet due to dislodgement. They are due to the fact that we have let our guard down over the last two weeks, and so we are getting what we are getting for it, which means greater numbers of newly infected people. And let everyone take it from here. The beer has already been settled, I believe, and business, therefore, I would just repeat myself. But I understand that the honourable Member wanted to mention it, and it's okay, I've responded. [[18.30 hours]] And as far as Professor Beran is concerned, I think it's the same misunderstanding as Professor Klaus. On our website, we only have the above, and let us be clear that both of them are considered to be icons, someone whom a large number of people believe, which corresponds essentially to what the MP has said here, which corresponds to the fact that Professor Klaus, the former president of this country, is certainly a person who many people respect and regard as a model. And we just wrote there, and I insist that, unfortunately, when something like that goes off somewhere, those who want to disinformed will immediately catch it. That means neither Professor Klaus nor Professor Beran are disinformers, and I haven't seen any of them anywhere on our website, I'm just saying that these people's statements, when they're not meant to be, take over disinformation websites very quickly, and that's the problem. Nothing more, nothing less. So I consider both gentlemen to be dignified, and I certainly didn't say that they and priori would be disinformers. And the last thing I want to go back to, we were talking here at the very beginning about someone saying that testing - and now please listen - was worth as much as one day of lockdown. So please test PCR tests worth about 35,000 a day cost this country roughly 2 billion a day, sorry, a month. Two billion a month. Which is, like, a new maternity ward at Brno University Hospital or some piece of hospital somewhere else. It needs to be given, but it's not true that it's worth as much as the day of the lockdown. How much is the day of the lockdown, we don't know, I can only tell you how much is the day of the state holiday, when the factories don't go and normal traffic doesn't go. It's about 5 billion crowns. So let's just put it in a correlation, but let's not add something that's not true again. So when you test PCR about 30,000 tests per day, it's roughly CZK 24 billion per year. Just this. So this is why we are trying, and using antigenic tests according to valid European recommendations and data available in the scientific community. And no one's questioning PCR tests. So I'm just pointing it out. And when we have virtually about 6,000 people newly infected and these people give about two to three contacts a day, it's about 18,000 or 20,000 tests a day, and that's the number we're doing. So it's not true that we're testing little. It's not true, please. We can't compare ourselves to Germany, which has x times more people. Again, let's compare them. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u43	I also thank you and Mr Lubomír Volný will speak in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u44	Thank you, Mr President, hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm voting today against extending the emergency situation. Why? We supported the emergency at the beginning of the epidemic. We voted responsibly at a time when we were opposed to an unknown enemy. The situation is quite different today. We've met the enemy, but we're still going to the virus with the cannon instead of sophisticated solutions. We have not taken strong and harsh measures at a time when people would take them and support them, and today we are witnessing agony, chaos and an increase in unnecessary deaths of people without a covid. As has been said many times today, the government does not need an emergency to declare a whole series of measures. The constant extension of the emergency situation is therefore unnecessary. On top of all this, you can't trust official statistics, because it often looks like they're randomly or on a political order created by the same software that fixed the U.S. President's election. The more and more it becomes clear that someone does not want quick, effective and cheap solutions to the coronavirus crisis. The more and harder the experts are being silenced, who point to the existence of proven cheap genetic drugs, to such an extent - Minister, here I will respond directly to your speeches, which I consider even more offensive than the inclusion of President Klaus or Mr Beran on the list of disinformers, because you have now made them fools who don't know what they are saying, who are stupid and now drop some silly word, undignified position. For me personally, I would take this as an even more insult than the fact that you really included them as disinformers, despite the fact that many of them are more educated and internationally respected in their fields than you are. Will the government's vaccination campaign be like this? Will it be built on censorship and shutting down opponents? Will it be based on the fact that anyone who dare criticizes a government vaccination plan will be labeled a conspirator? Well, I'll take the liberty of saying that such a campaign will be counterproductive. Because this kind of campaign has caused us, for example, to have the kind of government we have. Because the government movement YES was the goal of a systematic anti-campaign. And if you attack your opponents like that and try to censor and silence, I swear to God, you won't get the numbers you want to get because people won't believe you. I will not support the emergency situation, because it increasingly seems that the only objective of the measure is to eliminate the quality of life and life itself to as many people as possible. To make their lives absolutely unbearable so that, in the end, they themselves and best on their knees beg for the only possible, by all global media since the beginning of the crisis as a mantra repeated, and it has been said again today by too many people, including the Prime Minister: This crisis will end when vaccination is done. It is enough that with their real experience, doctors who, somewhere in the world, have really and successfully treated the victims of coronavirus by intravenous administration of vitamin C, use vitamin D, which is proven to be lacking the absolute majority of the victims of covid or people who have a difficult course. Using Hydroxychloroquine or Isoprinosin, which in many cases in our home doctors themselves perfectly bought from the shelves of our pharmacies. I repeat the experience of real traffic. Just as vaccination took place in 2009 with doctors, there is no doctor or pharmacist in my area today who would not use this Isoprinosin preventively. It is enough for anyone to question the safety and effectiveness of the svatý grál of business with the covido panic, unknown and untested vaccines, to be immediately lynched and bullied by the World Health Organization, the Minister of Health, who first despises the petition signed by the Aesthebacian Prime Minister of this country, to lie about his signature under this petition and finally confessed under the pressure of evidence. And this morally anchored person is supposed to convince us of an emergency? A morally anchored man demands the citizens of this country to trust him? A morally anchored person wants to convince citizens that they should be vaccinated? It is very similar to Minister Prymul, who made fun of both his own regulations and all the citizens of this country. Another reason why I will not support the extension of the emergency situation is that the measures imposed on citizens of this country are chaotic, confused, counterproductive and often discriminatory. Czech tradesmen in favour of multinational corporations are discriminated against. Every, every government measure always mysteriously contains something that favours multinational corporations against our businessmen. As has already been said, they did exactly the opposite in Poland. They favored their businessmen, their small businessmen against multinationals. Finally, I will not support the emergency because I do not like the aggressive position of the Czech government, which calls everyone with a opposing opinion a disinformer. This list will probably have another immunologist, Dr. Karel Drbal, who has just publicly criticized the PES system. The way the antiepidemic system in the Czech Republic has been set up is wrong. The system hasn't gone through any opponents, no discussions. According to him, the PES system is only good enough to monitor the evolution of the epidemic. All of this brings me together that the emergency situation, as it is set and run today, does not guarantee that it will work. We had a traffic light, now we have a "dog" and it looks like we're going to have a wheel of luck. Because just like a bet on chance, these measures look like. Finally, I ask my colleagues from the KSČM to consider their vote and to think very well about whether they want to be signed under this extension. It is evident from the rest of the opposition that it will eventually be them who decide, and I believe that their voters are watching them closely right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. At this point, Vice-President Filip will perform with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u46	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, Madames and gentlemen, I will respond to the call from my fellow Volný. Yes, I'm sure our voters are watching us. And they are following us precisely to see if life and the health of citizens are still the highest value for us. And, of course, we can think about a lot of things here, but what's in the balance bowl with the extension, or without extending the emergency? When we say the end, I ask who will replace the missing nurses, who will replace the doctors at the medical facilities, who will replace the social services workers if you can't order them to either the soldiers or the firefighters or the students? You can't do that without an emergency. So you're gonna let those nurses fall out of thin air? Do you serve 12 hours a day as they do? Do you really think it's that simple at that covido workplace in that or that county or other hospital? Maybe. Maybe you don't care. Maybe you'd rather go to the pub than look at those who've been carrying that pandemic around since spring. Or we can do as Miroslav macek wrote. Let's stop testing, let's stop talking about whether people are sick or not, forget about it, and we'll have numbers that won't talk about anything, we'll probably have a lot more sick in hospitals next week than the capacity we've created so far. Then choose whether you prefer the pub or the nurses and the doctors!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u47	Thank you and Mr Zdeněk Podal will speak at this time in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor. Dear government, colleagues, I would first begin with what we should all begin with. At this point in our work, our paramedics are fighting for a lot of the lives of our fellow citizens. That is why I would like to thank them all in the first place, and not only the paramedics, but all those who are helping them, that is, students, but also soldiers. And I hope we don't thank the soldiers by blowing their budget. So I guess that would be an introduction. I thank all those who participate in the pandemic and save people's lives. He also sent me, and I get a lot of e-mails like this, one gentleman following the e-mail. I can show him, but I will try to quote him: "Dear Member, since you are our deputy and we are paying you, we will ask that you be the first to be vaccinated against the covid." - I said to him, "Yes, Mr. Jakub Božek, I'm going to be vaccinated, but not that you're asking me, but that I want to. And now I would just try to respond to today's negotiations. I'll talk mostly to my peers. I understand that people in their 20s are laughing about it because they're easy or they don't even know it. I'm talking about those who have the problems, and they were some colleagues even from our club. So I will comment on the pandemic that we are discussing today in connection with the prolongation of the emergency situation. And on top of that, I'll borrow Sir Winston Churchill's bonmots. It's like it's today. He talked about it in the war, but we are also: This is not the end of the pandemic or the beginning of the end, it is only the end of the beginning. Because of the increasing number of infected people, we can promise one thing: more infected, more unemployed and unfortunately more dead. There's no doubt we can beat the pandemic. But it won't be today, it won't be tomorrow, and unfortunately it won't be this year. Therefore, we politicians should set an example in both testing and vaccination, which is the only one who has a chance of stopping the pandemic and helping to resolve this situation. We are at war with a global pandemic, and we all need discipline. And once again, we politicians should be examples who should forget about party shirts, because without a joint effort, we can also lose. There's only one number between winning and losing. And that number is the number of deaths that die in the pandemic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u49	I also thank you for your speech and, at this point, Mr Válek will be speaking. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u50	Well, I've gotten my hands on the paperwork and the technique this time, because as it's been repeatedly done here to make specific arguments, dates, reasons, so... I'd like to begin by complimenting the Prime Minister. I hope you didn't pass out when I said that, because it's a surprise maybe, but I'll say exactly what for. I printed out the speech and it's exactly the following wording: "We all know that the only final solution is the vaccine." I firmly believe we all know that. I really hope that all of us are going to say this repeatedly, and hopefully that will finally start the campaign that hasn't really started. We, who were on that team yesterday, where each party nominated one, and where we heard from Deputy Černý, the reasons why the campaign didn't start earlier, I wouldn't have liked it if the reasons and arguments like this had ever been repeated. What's done is done. Okay. I'm ready, willing to admit that someone didn't come somewhere and something happened, I don't care, and now we're starting the campaign. And please let each of you start with any speech in this House: it is necessary to inoculate, and I, like the entire top management, will, of course, be vaccinated. My mom gets vaccinated, my wife gets vaccinated, and I hope that the vaccine will be available to me as soon as possible, that I can get vaccinated with my physician, who I am registered with, that I won't have to go far away. That's why we need to have a vaccination plan. It was said here that we would meet him, but the plan, as I looked at it, hangs on the pages of the Ministry of Health. At least there's a version of six hanging there. 12. I assume most of you have read it. The plan says what will be done, when will be done, how will it be done. I was very interested in Section 15, which says, among other things, "Carantine in vaccinated persons. Based on the current state of scientific knowledge..." Of 6. 12., the Ministry of Health website, the plan, I can quote exactly the name. "Based on the current state of scientific knowledge, the degree and duration of protection after vaccination cannot yet be fully determined. In the case of clinical studies confirmed by high immunity, etc. etc. If the vaccinated individual has documented and confirmed vaccination against disease nine gets into epidemiologically significant contact with the person infected with COVID-19, the vaccinated individual will not be ordered quarantine.' [[COVID-19?]] Good for me. He won't have to be quarantined. Now I just don't know how all those who lose money because of quarantine, how athletes, how many others who want to travel abroad, will have to wait two, three, four months for a vaccine before they get that advantage. Therefore, I would like the vaccination to take place as quickly as possible, as massively as possible for anyone who is interested. My long-term fear is not that people will not be vaccinated because I am convinced that Čech are not fools. And a couple of deniers who think the cell will poop the virus to get rid of the harmful substances, please let them be like that. They can hunt for a loch, take the hand of a yeti while watching aliens land there by that lake in their flat land where they live. I don't have a problem with that, it's their world. [[18.50 hours]] I don't think all normal, self-righteous people are involved in this world, and they don't live in it. I don't have a problem with them, I don't mind, and I like them. But I'd like all of these to get to the vaccination in time to have that advantage, too, that they won't have to be quarantined. They're gonna ask for it. That is why I am convinced when we know what the number of vaccines is, what the number of vaccines is - and that is my first question. We know that whether EMA approves them or doesn't approve them is just a formal matter, she approves them. They will be approved for the second, third, fourth week of January and approved in January at a certain stage. We know that by then we'll have two months of experience from England, how vaccinations take place, how they organise it, where there were weak spots, strong places. And I don't think anyone who knows how Angličan likes their queen who gets vaccinated, so I don't believe they'd sacrifice her just to make Soros. So we'll be much more sure everything works out the way it's supposed to. So I'm assuming that day D, from my perspective, it's day D when EMA says "so now," so one of our plans will start, depending on which one of the vaccines goes through the EMA, and the plan will take place within two, three, four days and the vaccination will occur. And that the Minister of Health is just gonna pull out the chanon of the plan, the specific vaccine, and set off the system. It doesn't matter which of the five vaccines, or how many it's going to be, it's going to be. Maybe it'll be two, or maybe it'll be three. That was all the more confusing with the speech by Mr President Janulík on the radio dneska, who said that they would essentially inoculate circuit doctors, that it is not a problem, that it is a common vaccination, so I do not know what all the problems are with it. If that's the plan, God bless you. I firmly believe that we will now learn how many days after the EMA has approved the vaccine, we are ready to start vaccinations in the Czech Republic. In a day, in two, in three. No matter what vaccine it is. We have to have variant plans. The second thing I didn't find an answer to on those websites, and I'm very worried about it. I have always studied at school, and I assume that the Minister, too, through the President, all fellow Members of the doctor, should not be vaccinated by the person who has the disease. If I have the flu, they won't inoculate me with the flu. So I'm wondering if in this case a person who's gonna have symptomsless disease, which means he's gonna have covid, he won't be in trouble, he can or can't be vaccinated. I'd like a clear answer to that. And I think the answer has to be heard as soon as possible. Because if it's not certain if a person with symptomsless disease can be vaccinated, then we're gonna have to test all those patients before vaccination. I don't know if that's gonna happen or not, but I'd like a clear answer to this second question I'm getting from my colleagues. And then there's the third thing and the third point that concerns the unfortunate emergency situation. If what I read here today on social media is that the emergency situation - said by Minister Blatný, at least that's quoted - ends when we have 500 new positive cases a day, it's finally information we've been calling for for a long time. Because when we first heard in the show, before we couldn't even talk about when the emergency would end, nobody wanted to talk to us, but now PES was introduced, and it was a huge disappointment for me that he didn't count on some emergency situation ever ending, because even in stage one, when it's zero to twenty or how many points, it still takes an emergency state to make that level one work. That's why we did alternative content to prove that the emergency PES might not work at stage one and two, so we added the "dog" to the zero state, which doesn't need anything at all. Because the zero state has to happen someday. So if the emergency is over, if we have 500 positive patients a day, two days in a row, three days in a row, then the nation has some vision, some hope, it can control how many positive patients there are, it can know if the desired moment of emergency is nearing them. It's not a mantra, but it's something we're talking about insanely. All of you here know that this is about whether the government's proposal to prolong the emergency situation will have a majority or not. If we approve for two weeks, for a week, it doesn't really matter, because 24th, 22nd, 18th will be exactly the same situation as every day. We'll have a little more infected, a little less infected, a little more hospital patients, a little less. But nothing will change from the point of view of the need for an emergency again. The same situation will be in January. And as the Prime Minister said, I will repeat it again: we all know that the only final solution is the vaccine. Well, as long as we don't have enough population vaccinated, we're still gonna have an emergency. But let's put it that way. That's what I want to hear. Yes, there's nothing else we can do, we have to have an emergency until we're vaccinated. Then I want to hear b. And I have to thank you so far for a little bit of that B. We want this emergency so we can use the military and the police. I understand that. It's correct, it's legitimate, I'm ready to support it. We're not putting students in medical facilities in an emergency. And I would very much like it if the authorities asked for it, so it must be agreed with the Minister of Education. We're not going to want some things like closing shops in general, and if we do, we're going to have a broad discussion. We just want to - and so I want to - speak for myself now. I, Dr. Válek, want to make sure that there's no threat of any emergency abuse. I understand that the legislative situation in the Czech Republic, I understand that how the rules are set from the government's point of view, requires an emergency. But I don't want to give her a blank check to keep the students in hospitals all the time. I don't want to give her a blank check to keep this place closed, the open business. I want to give her a blank check for specific activities. It's not my fault the emergency didn't count on this situation. It's not my fault that he was counting on some group of people to go out for a few days and save the day, and that no one thought it would take six months. But that's just the way it is. And that there is a problem, we have long been pointing out. That means I'll sum up and quit. One. I like knowing and reading that there's some kind of vision of an emergency ending, 500 patients a day. Please confirm if this is true, and as long as there are more than 500 patients a day, there is no chance of an emergency. It's possible that the quote on that list today wasn't true, it was from some media appearance. I have a second question: What about patients who will be positive, who do not know it, are without symptoms? They'll be vaccinated, won't they? And if they don't, will they be tested before vaccination, which would mean that everyone basically has to be tested? The third question I have is: How many days after day D, that means EMA approves one of those vaccines, no matter what, are we able to start vaccinations? Day, two, three, week, month, two months, how long after? And the fourth question I have is: I am a Czech citizen, I am not a risk group, I am not a paramedic, I will not be actively addressed as paramedics, we started to be addressed at the Brno University Hospital, I received an email today as an employee, whether I am or am not interested in being vaccinated, I immediately replied that I have. I'm assuming a number of hospitals go the same way. This means a normal citizen of the Czech Republic who is worried, worried, and wants to be vaccinated, when this citizen will be able to register somewhere, with a practical doctor, with the Minister, I do not know who, and say I am interested in vaccination. My mom usually registers for influenza vaccinations half a year in advance or even longer. So when can I register for covid vaccination? And I understand that then I'll be waiting for, like, a month, two, three, four before they invite me. But I want to be on the list of those who invite me. So I have these four questions and I will be very grateful for their answers. And in conclusion, I'd like to say yes, I really appreciate the paramedics, I appreciate the very paramedics who work. When we're done, I'm going to Brno, starting in the morning. I have a patient with a kidney tumor, a second, metastases in the liver. And I think that a number of us since we're doctors and MPs are here, we're gonna get in first thing in the morning and we're gonna work. It's just something that's our calling, something that we enjoy, something that's our calling. We like to work as Members, it is important work. But we're willing to do everything for our patients. I'm just a radiologist, I'm a photographer. My colleagues at the clinic, they do a lot more for them. My sister's colleague, she's sleeping in that hospital. And it's not just them. They're computer science center workers, they're personalists, they're all the people that are still in those hospitals. And it's because of them that we should be giving clear, predictable data and information so that they know what's waiting for them in a week, a month, two months. If we can predict with such precision the number of newly infected, we should be able to give the data. He deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u51	Thank you, too. Mr. Václav Klaus will appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u52	Tricolors for the third time, ladies and gentlemen, will not support the extension of the emergency situation, but I will perform today a little differently than most of my colleagues. I am most fascinated by the pride of the members of the government. Prime Minister, Mr. Hamáček, Mr. Minister - we stopped something. If that were true, they triggered it again with the same logic in August, or now they've lowered it and then they've increased it again. It's mathematically logical. Or maybe when the number of infected people drops, it's the government's credit, and when it grows, it's because a gentleman at the pub drank beer at 20.04 hours, they called it to the minister. So this is simply not true that the government is in any way scientifically controlling the outbreak of populations. It's not true. It's a viral disease, it's spreading through some aerosol particles, etc., that's what the doctors around here would tell us, but your pride that you're controlling it as a whole is just not true. The government has no idea what measures they bring - and some measures, if any - positive effects. A smart quarantine doesn't work, a traffic light didn't work, it was more of a stroboscope, and the PES system doesn't even follow the government itself. Looks like we're in four now, but we're in three. Another thing that is clear, Minister, the government cannot predict the evolution of the epidemic. I don't believe that when you guys loosened up four days ago, you knew it was gonna come back, and now you're gonna tighten it up. I'm sure you thought it would continue to fall. So there's no truth that you know how this epidemic is going to develop. Your measures have a political character from the vast majority. You don't want to ban large shopping malls before Christmas, but for political, not epidemiological reasons. Forbid skiers to ski, even though you promised me the opposite on Thursday, that's what you want, because most skiers are not voters ANO or ČSSD, so it's okay. The government doesn't want to destroy large multinational chains, but it doesn't want to destroy small businesses and businessmen and innkeepers - they don't really vote for YES and ČSSD - it's like that. The Trikolóra rejects this mix of policy and would-be professional measures. We advocate a policy similar to Sweden, Switzerland, Finland or Denmark. Not all countries, as you keep saying, are in a state of three times more stringent lockdown than the Czech Republic. Africa doesn't do anything, I haven't read that there are millions of people dying. Scandinavian countries and Switzerland have a much more restraining measure. The Švéd now have one third of the patients in serious condition compared to the Czech Republic, and the numbers are dropping against the catastrophic predictions that some have been prognosising them. The Švýcar have experienced the same decline as the Czech Republic without draconian measures and have about 40 percent less dead. So it's not true that the path you're going is the only possible one, the only one that's scientifically based. Your government measures cost billions of crowns a day and you destroy people and entire families economically over thousands. An emergency situation makes sense if it's active. Preparation of vaccine, protection of seniors, sending college students and officials to caregivers, hospitals, tracking centers, I don't know, simply mobilizing a country to overcome a difficult situation, not destroying a part of society, killing and leaving all efforts on a few hundred brave doctors and nurses. I'm fascinated by your collective hatred of the innkeepers. When we look at the numbers, I read that the police have carried out 30,000 checks in the last two days and found 96 violations of crisis measures, not individuals, some people who didn't have a drape, but restaurants. I've done the math. That's a three-millimeter. This even results in some government members like Mr Zaorálek proposing to take the pubs into custody as a precaution, which has not been here since 1988, perhaps 1989 still using it. In short, you don't control the epidemic, don't think so. I understand that it seduces you, that you feel important, it's a big responsibility. I don't want to laugh about it, I understand it's very difficult, but don't feel like your decisions depend on how this epidemic goes on. Either it's gonna accelerate or it's gonna shrink. You don't know that, and you don't know anything about the effect your actions have on you. And the results of different countries are not clear. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u53	Thank you. Good evening, everyone. Let's keep going. Mr Bendl is enrolled in the general debate, then Mr Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u54	Prime Minister, Mr President, colleagues, I will try not to repeat what has already been said here. Just so much that I belong to those who are not ready to support the continuation of the emergency situation, among other things, because we have repeatedly said here that we are giving a blank check for measures, where then we ourselves wonder what the government has eventually declared. The Minister, and I'd like to say, admitted self-critically here today that the measures taken did not work. What remains a question is to answer why. That didn't sound like much. I think that's the key to what we're supposed to do, so we need to answer why it didn't work. Probably still, or according to experts, it doesn't concern the wave you call relaxing, I often call it less concentration, or forcing people, or I tell people not to have to gather to wait at offices, or to buy things instead of in a big mall in a small or smaller store. I don't, and I have to say that here -- everyone here says they're gonna get vaccinated. I'm not one of those who get vaccinated, either because I'm afraid of side effects, and because I'm worried about whether it's really going to start up, those who need it, that it's really going to get to them. You're convincing us today that he's gonna get to them. We'll see. In January, in February, we'll talk. I firmly believe that this will be the case, or I wish it to be, but given what's been going on here in the last few months, I'm really worried you're gonna make it. I wish I could. I would also very much like you not to force me to be vaccinated to leave it to myself, because my health is my property and not someone else's property. And to take advantage of the right not to be vaccinated and not to mention any actions that the state will require, I think it's also right. We'll see in time, but, as I say, I'm not one of those people I'd like to trust to be chased around by Minister Hamáček with a duty to inoculate me somewhere. I hope the Chamber of Deputies will not allow that. Everyone's been talking about voluntary vaccinations. I hope that it will also remain there, even though we are majority, or the Chamber of Deputies, I do not, they rejected the explicit mention in the law last week, when it was voted on, it did not go by about one vote, I suspect, explicitly say that it would be optional and neither will the state make it subject to anything. If other states around us do this and make it clear that our citizens will only be able to travel if they are vaccinated, they have the right as we do in the Czech Republic to tell those who travel to us if and how they should behave in the case of protection against covid. What I'd like to ask the Minister, I think it's important. Everyone here is bowing down how tired the paramedics are, as they really are at the bottom of their own strength at some point, risking a lot, after the first wave the paramedics got a reward, an extraordinary one that the state solved, and through the hospital founders, those people got a reward. I want to ask if this applies to the second wave and when it will be. For in those regional hospitals - I'm talking about the Central Bohemia Region - we promise these people that there might be something, but we don't know anything about it. So I would like to ask whether the Ministry of Health or the Government really will do this in the future, say a short future, calculates when it will happen and whether it will happen and whether it will be at the level it was in the case of the first wave. Even the distribution of the standard covid beds and the specialized ones. So I'd like the Minister to respond to this. [[19.10 hours]] But in order not to end negatively, I want to thank you for your support by all the votes, I point out, so it's really up to everyone. At the meeting of the Election Committee, we jointly supported the request addressed to the Council of Czech Television and the Council of Czech Radio to take into account the fact that the Czech culture is very bad financially, that all current actors in the area of Czech culture really suffer financially, and this is one of the ways to help them. So I want to thank you all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u55	Thank you and now Mr Volný as the last member of the debate at this time. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I've got my first life coming out ahead of me. Mr Docent through Mr President, I love you too. Mr. Professor War through Mr. President, I love you too. He said the professor and the professor were happy, Mr. Associate Professor last time, so that's okay. However, I will certainly never begin my appearance in the House by being vaccinated. I've decided to play the role of the critical element for the rest of my term, given the planned vaccination. You guys be the positive element. I regularly allow myself to add new and new information to the discussion, which is somewhat critical of the vaccines, such as. information published by an FDA disinformation agency, an American Medicines Agency, stating that six people died during the vaccine testing by Pfizer. It's 21 hours of information. Then I will allow myself to publish another misinformation from another conspiracy and misinformation web News.cz , where it was reported today at 14.40 that they do not recommend a vaccine from Pfizer to severe allergens in Britain, they are in danger of anaphylactic shock. So, yes, I'm going to play the role of the critical element here, and certainly never from me, Mr. Docent, although I have you, I repeat, also like through Mr. President, and I'm ready to come with you to find both the yeti and the aliens and in the tent to enjoy the view from the flat ground to our starry sky, but I'm not really going to play the role of sheep. If you want to play it and you want to make citizens look like sheep, you must play it. But we all know here in this House that this vaccine is new, it has not passed the standard regime, and as has been said from the mouth of Mr. Immunologist, whom I can't remember now, in CNN: yes, if not for this bizarre time, it would never have been admitted to clinical research or clinical research. That's just the way it is, it's never gonna be any other way. It's not a tried vaccine. And I'm not gonna tell the citizens of this country to have something applied that can potentially damage them immediately after the app, within a year and a day, five years or ten years from now, because no one in this room just knows and can honestly not know. And, as we have heard from our fellow Member, Klaus, other countries have been going in different ways, having similar or better results than we have. and if they start or don't run some vaccination campaigns, that's their business, of course, but in England, pregnant women, children, and today, allergic women will not be pregnant anymore. Six people died from Pfizer vaccine during her testing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u57	Thank you, that was Mr Volný's second speech, and now Mr Válek is still reporting with his second speech. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I'm a government MP now, I feel. So you're here - not you sitting here today, but you Members, we Members, we were here years ago debating something called devitalization. I don't know who you'll remember. Back then, a fellow surgeon was tying up the tumors, so the tumors were cured, and those people weren't dying. And the citizens' petitions, who simply wanted the method to be paid, were approved. At that time, the Chamber of Deputies turned soft and chose two workplaces that forced the Minister of Health back then, and it doesn't matter which one it was to test the devitalization. They tried it at the VFN and tried it on the Yellow Hill. Through Mr President, perhaps Professor Vyzula could say what happened. However, this surgeon should now have a monograph that will celebrate his achievements because he died, you know, the achievements here with this devitalization. Even in a group of surgeons who are debating this, panic began because they are terrified that this method will appear again, and colleagues involved in it write: We have to do something about it. I mean, we were killing people, that's when they forced us to kill people, to do something that killed these people. There were hopeless patients coming here, and we were doing something that killed them. And I answered the group: Well, gentlemen, if we doctors can't tell the grifters you're cheaters, you're fools, then of course we're hurting our patients and breaking our Hippocratic Hippokratův. Of course, each vaccine has side effects, each medicine has side effects. I'm not gonna repeat a condom problem here. Only a lunatic would give a vaccine to a patient with asthma. Only a fool would give vaccines to pregnant people, any kind. And the fact that there are complications in the clinical trial, well, that's why the clinical trial is to find out the risks of the complications. That means, I understand all these arguments and I understand those concerns, I understand them, but we are here to lead the citizens of the Czech Republic out of the problems they have been in for a year, six months, more than six months. And we can only lead them out by inoculating them, there is no other way. What's the alternative? Wait for the virus to disappear? Or say it isn't, let's forget it? I don't know what the alternative is. I do not know anyone else, and therefore I will do everything possible to convince the citizens of the Czech Republic - get vaccinated, don't worry about it. I'd be happy to set an example. It's nonsense to question this here. Yes, I understand concern. It is a good thing that there are concerns and experts, the Minister, the government is to distract these fears, to explain their argument. And, yes, I have been criticizing the government for a long time, criticizing the third minister that they are not doing this consistently enough, that they did not raise Parliament to this point, that they were playing solo events and that there was no campaign that was not addressed by artists, athletes, there was no campaign similar to that in many other countries. But that doesn't mean I'm gonna say it's not. And it's possible that the Earth is really flat. It's possible that those who claim it are modern Giordan Brun. I'm never gonna lower myself to burning them. They have an opinion, they walk on their flat Earth. I have no problem with it, but still, because I am a doctor because I am a researcher because I am a scientist and now I happen to be an MP, so I will do everything I can to convince the citizens of the Czech Republic to get vaccinated. Please, do it. And I ask the same thing for this government, this minister, and all those who mean well to this nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u59	Thank you. That was the last application. Mr. Stanjura. So please, in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u60	Thank you for the floor. This debate has been going on for many hours, and there have been many good arguments from the opposition, in particular, why not comply with the government's request to prolong the emergency situation. And I'm not gonna repeat them. Maybe just the key thing, thanks to government behavior, chaotic decision making. One last example. Yesterday we'll know I can't take a beer out of the restaurant. - No, Jesus Christ. [[Reactions from the O.R.]] That's just an example I'm documenting. - And today the Minister of Health will say, "We didn't mean it. And who meant that? Who's expanding it? One punch after another, one confused information after another. And the only answer is government, and it's point two: increase repression, increase fines, close them. That's the way to hell. That doesn't work at all. Whoever believes that believes in the police state. Instead of explaining clearly, clearly, your measures, so that people understand them and basically voluntarily implement them, because if they understand them, they will simply follow them. And I could give you these ridiculous examples one by one. I would like the government to ease its pressure on this increase in repression. That's really not going anywhere. You drive decent people to desperate acts. If you don't believe, go out and talk to those people who don't know where to go. Talk to those restaurant operators and ask why they are in the situation and why many of them are voting today, or are going to take desperate steps that they will break, they will clearly violate the regulations. But desperate people do desperate things. So talk to them. Explain. Face to face. Not on Facebook. Eye to eye. And don't tell them over and over again that they are irresponsible citizens who are responsible for everything. It's just not like that. It's very comfortable pointing fingers at the others, but each of us should start with each other. And I said all of us, I didn't just say government politicians. But I would like to address in more detail the question that I had with my colleagues yesterday on the covid committee set up by the Chamber of Deputies. First of all, I want to thank the Minister for sending his team. We accepted his apology that he had originally come, but that his team represented him, I would say, fully. And believe it or not, in principle, it was not clear in the debate, sometimes, but mostly not, who is a government MP and who is an opposition MP. And instead of the agenda that we originally wanted to discuss - and it got a little out of date, because originally the meeting was with Minister Vojtěch, the deadline that was agreed, he didn't live up to his job. By the time we made the appointment with Minister Prymula, he was gone, too. And now we're quite flexible with Minister Blatný. And his team was there, I'd say, in a representative composition. I want to turn your attention, but also the public's attention to the vaccination. I think we're having a pointless debate here, whether mandatory or voluntary, when no one proposes mandatory. So let's not debate whether mandatory or voluntary when no one proposes mandatory. That's one. Then there's no point in the debate. We're all in favour of volunteering. And now we're arguing and convincing, but we're convincing everyone who thinks the same way. I think there's a whole other problem. And unfortunately, the meeting and the government material convinced me that it was really a threat. Those who want to be vaccinated voluntarily wouldn't stand a chance. How many lines or how many pages do you think, my dear colleagues, how many lines or words the government spends in its approved concept or strategy of vaccination logistics and vaccination security? Now I don't mean medical, I mean logistics. Eighteen lines. Eighteen lines including "this situation requires a special solution" padding sentences. There's nothing there. Let us look to our neighbors in Germany, Austria, what detailed plans they have, how they are publicly communicated. Many know. Really. And I want to ask Minister Blatný, "How is logistics prepared?" And how many citizens are we able to inoculate by March, June and September? Yesterday I heard that I have no reason not to believe that, according to the surveys that the Ministry of Health has, our population is divided by about 40 percent of citizens on this issue, 40 percent of citizens are certainly not vaccinated and 20 percent do not actually know. But the figure is actually useless, because it's clear that there will be priority groups that need to take precedence. Seniors 65 plus, I draw from government material, and those who have some type of chronic disease. I'll leave that to the doctors' debate, whether it's right or wrong, I really don't understand. For us, however, the key information in this group is the first to go, what is the ratio of those who want to vaccinate, who hesitate and who are against. We just don't know. Then how are we supposed to plan where he's gonna be vaccinated? In the first stage in faculty hospitals. Well, there's a faculty hospital in our big county of Moravian-Silesian. And believe it or not, sometimes it's only an hour and a half to the faculty. There's no system that's gonna register the candidates. It's not really ready for anything. And we don't tell the public the truth. And we say in the long run that we should always tell the truth, even if it's not pleasant. Because the worst, and that loses trust, I promise something, and then I don't. I promise a second time, and then I won't. And for the third time, no one trusts me anymore. Minister Hamáček nods his head, so let him answer me as Vice Prime Minister of the Government. How many people do we inoculate in January, how many in February, how many in March? In January, February, March, are we just gonna inoculate the first priority group or the second or the paramedics? It's all supposed to be in the concept of the vaccination system, and unfortunately, none of it's there. If the material was from April, it'd be great. No irony. But we're in December. We don't have anything planned. I'm not happy about it. I think that... I don't know which departments handle logistics, it can't just be a problem for the Ministry of Health. This is not an authority capable of inventing a functioning logistics system. Read it. It's public material today that the government discussed on Monday. It's like an introduction to the debate. April would be fine. It's desperately low in December. I'm not gonna say everything that was said on that committee yesterday. Anyone who wants to listen to the footage, read it. I must say, the people of the ministry have spoken to us more openly than the government has. They told us more openly about the pitfalls and the problems. And the project just has to be successful. That's our common interest. Yes, there are opponents of vaccinations, they have a sacred right to do so. So they don't get vaccinated. Let's just take it as a fact. Let's not waste any time talking. But then he's here, even if it's only 40 percent - I don't know if it's just. If it were 40 percent, it would be four million or more than four million citizens. In the material available to the government on Monday, he writes that most of them will have to be vaccinated twice, at the interval of 28 to 30 days. So that's actually eight million operations, in quotes, now I don't mean medical surgery, or eight million operations. And I miss the plan. There are regions where there is no faculty hospital. Imagine, we have such regions in the Czech Republic. And the further the journey of the potential candidate to the hospital, the vaccination center, the lower the motivation. There is no solution to the problem of testing. Doctors will confirm, I asked my colleagues who want to be vaccinated, they have to be tested negatively before. In other words, if we want to inoculate 4 million populations by holiday, 4 million tests by holiday. Negative. See how many tests have been performed since March. And let's ask the government, are these real numbers? Are we telling the public the truth? And let's just talk about those who want to get vaccinated. Let's not talk about the group that doesn't want to, they really have a right to decide that they don't. And if 4 million people do, Minister, it's true that before they have to be tested, if they don't have the covid so that they can vaccinate, as my fellow doctors say, I don't know, I'm the patient, if so, who's gonna organize the testing before the vaccination? Approximately 1,300,000 tests have been carried out since March, if I'm not mistaken. I'm sure the Minister has a more recent number. And we're talking about if that's true, the doctors are telling me that yes, so we have to run four million tests if we want to inoculate 4 million people. Where do we inoculate them? Whoever's watching the public debate in Germany knows that they have detailed plans to do it in the sports halls where they'll have the freezer boxes, I apologize for speaking this layman way, in which they'll have the vaccines that require the low temperature for storage and transport. I didn't hear anything about it back home. [[19.30 hours]] I asked yesterday - to do something positive - what are the experience of influenza vaccination, how many people were vaccinated, how it was done. Well, for those of you who didn't know it yesterday, it's a lot easier there. This is where it takes place mainly in practice offices, different years. According to the numbers I got yesterday from the Ministry of Health, it's 7 to 10 percent of the population, so 700 thousand to one million and they're going to inoculate in about six weeks. But that's where, according to the Ministry of Health, mostly the practitioners are vaccinated. So let's ask about the vaccination strategy where the practitioners can start. There's nothing clear about the government's material, it's written in the next phase. In the first phase of the faculty hospital, health institutions, in the next stage. But those citizens are supposed to know when it's going to be. January, February, March... Well, it won't be for sure in January, we know that. This is what a detailed vaccination strategy is supposed to look like. That's the debate we're supposed to be having, not always clinging to: we need an emergency situation, we need fines, or, as the Minister of Culture said, we're gonna put someone in jail for 24 hours or 48 hours. That's not going anywhere. Just to deepen distrust. And that's what the Minister of Culture said, which I found quite entertaining, which will decide who he'll lock up for two days and who he won't. I mean, I don't want anyone to throw it up right away, that it was an exaggeration. But the government's words at this point take citizens seriously and don't care if they can or can't, but they say, "Oh, my God, that minister wants it this way. Let's focus on practical things, make sure we have a good vaccination strategy. Realistic. And then let's tell the public not to have excessive expectations, and there will be no further disappointment, and so there will be another loss of confidence. And the more trust is lost, the harder the situation is, logically, for citizens to follow the measures that we can think of, what we want, but are issued, to follow. And unfortunately, the government is doing very little about that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u61	Thank you. At this point, I am no longer registering further applications for the debate, so if no one else is reporting... Prime Minister? Please. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u62	Thank you for the floor. Thank you all for your support, who wrote to me and shared my suffering in some of those speeches. I was asked this morning why I had the least involvement in the House, so I hope the editors will understand. Mr Stanjuro, through Mr President, we have sent you in good faith a proposal for a vaccination plan. And I even got the minister to send it to you because we wanted to debate with you normally. And now you've torn it to pieces. And we gave it to you in good faith to discuss it. But it's not about vaccination today, is it? It's about an emergency today. Someone said we came up with pride. I came here with humility, no pride. And basically, I don't understand what we're discussing here for 5.5 hours. All those who do not want to prolong the emergency, want chaos and threaten the lives of our fellow citizens. Definitely. Yes. You just want chaos, that's all. And we could've solved that in an hour today. Why do you want the emergency debate so often? Well, so you can talk here for 5.5 hours. Last time it was 6.5 hours, now it was 5.5 hours. You all made those speeches... And that's it, isn't it? That's the point, actually, so you can talk here. And I got about three voters here because somebody told me that the speeches, that even in the pub, when they had five beers, didn't say the things that went away, some of the speeches were crazy completely. So thanks for that, then. Some people said I wasn't elected, but after seeing me suffer here, I'm gonna get that voice. Well, thank you. What kind of repression? The biggest fine is paid by policemen to CZK 3.5,000. And you think the owner of Vyšehrad or the Američan who organizes these tours that come from abroad, and they all drink, then they damage some monument. And that Erasm student complains that when the police came in, poor thing didn't get water. Well, in France, they'd treat her differently. And here, they break some rules, and we say no, most respect. And you forgot what we were doing here a month ago? We were buying beds, we were dealing with oxygenating devices from New Zealand, we were building field hospitals, and our paramedics were fighting to keep us from having people lying in the hallways, and someone was gonna decide about the intubation as it was in Italy. I don't understand. So you're actually saying that you don't have a problem with ending the emergency, there's gonna be chaos, pandemics spreading, we're gonna have 300 dead a day again. And then you'll scream again: and you didn't do anything and everything wrong! I really don't understand. But I understand that you still need to have that emergency so you can talk here so you can keep talking and attacking the government and telling her some of the lies. It's a hundred times repeated lie is true. And most importantly, it's a lie that Mr. Hřib spread, and Mr. Bartoš repeated it today. It's not true, it's not true that I blame the Pražan for doing something wrong. That's not true at all. I asked Mr. Hřib to deal with the traffic, the crowded trams. Mr. Fiala is not here today, he said there will be some limited connections of the Czech Railways. So I figured it out... Not Mr. Fiala, Mr. Fiala's second... So I wrote to Havlíček, Havlíček wrote to Bednárik. And it's settled. And why didn't the nail do it? It is not true that I criticized the inhabitants of Prague. It's a lie that Bartoš, the Hřib, and others repeated. I just wanted to, if the mayor said he couldn't do anything, he could at least call the transport company to strengthen the connections, not when people are like sardines. I mean, they knew how many days in advance we'd end up at 10:00. They knew that, didn't they? And he didn't do anything. I criticized that. And then I criticized that somebody was selling langoses and schmucks at Old Man's. And that was it. But you turned it all over because it suits you, you're the politician here, you're the professional politicians. So I refuse. It's not true. I knew COVID-19 would be the main topic before the regional elections, but now you're doing it? Now you don't care if the hospitals get crowded and people die again? I really don't understand. I don't understand why politics is being done here. This is Mr. Mihola talking about the compensation. Yes, we've given 150 billion compensations this year. And the proposal for an increase, Mr. Ambassador, is actually a law, we had to change the law. And, of course, we've compensated and we'll compensate. Yeah, now they're calling us names for the restaurants. But do you even know that no restaurants in the surrounding states are open? None. Neither in Germany, nor in Austria, nor Hungary, in Slovakia on the terrace, in Poland closed. For the sake of the beggar. Of course, we want our entrepreneurs to do business. And most of them follow it, absolutely sticking to it. So I thought it would be a normal debate, but it was just politics again. The minister wasn't enough to disprove the various misinformations that were here. And I'm sorry, of course, because I thought you always declared - let's have fun and we have suggestions. But you didn't suggest what to do today. You're just criticizing everything. [[19.40 hours]] We can do the whole year, like it was, the first wave, the loose ends, again. So I understand that we're still doing everything wrong, that we're a terrible government according to you, but we'll see when the year ends, what happens next. I think we've done our best to protect people's lives. And when you say, "we don't need an emergency," you just threaten those lives. And I repeat it again, and that's how it is. So all these different debates here, I don't know, that MP Bojko, he's always my favorite. Please, Professor Beran was in my office. He sat with Professor Prymula for six years in his office. And I begged the Minister and I if he was somewhere on the Web to put him away. And that Isoprinosin-- that's what a clinical trial is for. And SÚKL just gave some rules, and that didn't work. And why didn't he become a minister? Well, 'cause I didn't think of it and he's been living in Thailand for six months on the beach, and he's fine. That's probably the answer you asked here. And as for the beer, Mr Stanjur. Well, yes, there are officials. We're not all perfect. Now there was some explanation for the measure, so we talked about it, we reacted, it changed. I understand that everyone who criticizes us is perfect. We're not perfect, but when we make mistakes, we try to fix them. So that's about it. And I understand, so I don't know how it's gonna be approved today or won't agree to do it again before Christmas. I'm sorry. We thought you'd understand that the situation isn't good, that it really needs to be extended for 30 days, but we've spent almost six hours here, and I think people can see how it works here and what's going on here. And all I can say is I'm sorry. And the questions for the vaccination, yes, I have similar questions. We wait for the European Agency to give 15. 12th definitely green, and if it gives green light, then of course we will know when the vaccine will come, and we are preparing for it. And it's just some first kick of the material. There was also a debate about vaccination against normal flu. Yes, that's a year ahead of schedule. There are 20 million flu vaccines missing in Europe today. I personally dealt with Professor Adámková as well. We ordered 20 percent more, we ripped out about 25,000 doses of them, it was 890,000, and we are aware of the need to do marketing, to convince people that vaccination would protect their lives. But Professor Válek here criticized. Yes, the state is not a company. He's not a company. And before the Ministry of Health makes any campaign, it's got to be legal, and then it's got to be a competition, and so on. [[Nesroz.]] So it takes time, we're aware of that. But I say we have a match here, and we want to promote it. So I take these comments, but I understand that there's an opportunity that people are watching this, but we want to talk to you about it normally, if there's an interest, and of course we will accept your good ideas. But let's try to be rational and not just stay critical that we're doing everything wrong. Again, it's about extending the emergency. If it doesn't extend, it's chaos, it's a disaster, it's a threat to lives. So please remember this and try to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u63	Thank you. There were some other applications for the debate from the point of view. If I have noted this correctly, I will be the first Vice-President of the Fiala and then President of Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will actually respond very briefly to the Prime Minister's speech. Prime Minister, I volunteered before you said those last two sentences. If you think of your entire performance as in your last two sentences, let's rationally talk about your suggestions, let's discuss what you're proposing, and I hear your ideas, we wouldn't have to talk here anymore. But I really can't accept the interpretation you offered here. We have performed here with a number of specific proposals, recommendations, ideas, incentives and hand-to-handed government. And perhaps your reaction to the appearance of my colleague, President Zbyněk Stanjura, is a really deep misunderstanding. Zbyněk Stanjura here basically said: we have problems here to convince the public to get vaccinated, we simply have a common task here to arrange for the vaccination to take place so that it can be well prepared logistically, materially, and pro-pagandically, and let's talk about it, let's find a common solution. I apologize to the Prime Minister for interpreting his words, but this is how it is. We got government material, thank you for it, but he's just not enough. Let's do everything we can to prepare for this quickly, because time is short and because there is simply a need to make significant changes here. After all, what more can the opposition do than approach the government in this way and try to achieve a solution together? And that was an offer that was clearly made here. As far as we're concerned, if we don't prolong the emergency, there'll be chaos. Well, that's not true either. I am returning to my performance, where I think I have shown quite convincingly and on the basis of legal arguments what the government can do and what measures it can take without having to continue the emergency situation. It doesn't cost that question - emergency or chaos - responsible or reckless - those who take it seriously, those who don't take it seriously, and the fact that it's divided by whether we vote for emergency or not. It's just not like that. I pointed out that these measures should be proportionate, reasonable, and understandable. We are simply sorry that this is not the case with the government, but it is our right to criticise it and we will do so. And if we don't agree to prolonging the emergency, which we won't, then I want to say to the public nicely, that doesn't mean that the government can't do anything, that it can't take measures, that we can't act responsibly, that the government doesn't have the chance to limit certain things, that the government doesn't have the ability to regulate certain activities. The government can do all this without an emergency. So please, don't be fooled that it's either chaos or an emergency. It's just not like that. And once again, our ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 coalition has assembled an expert team, AntiCovid, who comes up with solutions. It's not a criticism if you read what my colleagues are coming up with. These are specific suggestions, suggestions and recipes that the government should at least talk to us about when it shows that the PES is not working, the government may not be able to, or does not, it doesn't, it doesn't matter why, the system adjusts so that it really works so that people can follow it, so that we all know what happens when we get to a certain point limit, what we can count on, what closes, what opens up. Our experts have come up with a proposal on what to do about it and how to edit the "dog." And so I could go on. AntiCovid vaccination team talks and comes up with specific suggestions again. So it's impossible to tell us: you're just criticizing here, saying that the government is incompetent, doing nothing, and you want chaos. It's just not like that. And again, I say that we face serious problems with epidemiological, health, economic. We are aware of that, but if the government responds to every criticism and every incentive so that it is simply irresponsible from the opposition, we will not get anywhere further. We, Prime Minister, are not progressing like this. We come up with proposals, solutions, we want to talk to you about this and we want to participate in the Czech Republic's handling of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u65	Thank you. The next one is registered by President Stanjura - downloads his application. So that was the last speech in the debate I know about. And if no one else is reporting, at this point, I am ending the debate. I will ask if there is an interest in the final word by the applicant or rapporteur. That is not the case, in which case we shall proceed to the vote. I will ask the rapporteur to introduce us to the proposals and propose a procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u66	Thank you very much. [[Gong.]] Mr President, colleagues, let me sum up the general debate and introduce you to the procedure, as has been said, and to the motions for resolutions. I listened very carefully to the debate. I would like to point out that, throughout the debate, there have been twenty-nine speakers, four proposals, or one that was on the table, that is, the Government's proposal, and three other proposals that have been read from the diaper. Now I'm just gonna watch and say them individually, and I'm gonna look very carefully at the petitioners, if they agree to their proposal with my interpretation as I load them. In the introductory words, the Prime Minister proposed a 30-day emergency for the government. Furthermore, the proposal of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia was that they proposed an emergency until 23. 12. Including. Furthermore, the proposal was KDU-ČSL, from the KDU-ČSL pen, with the suggestion that an emergency state duration of up to 18. 12., however, subject to an increase in compensation bonus for businessmen, to CZK 20,000. And the fourth proposal was from Mr Bojka pen, which was a proposal for immediate cancellation of the emergency situation to date, which is to 9. 12,24 zero. My colleague agrees. Now, Mr President, by your means, I want to ask if all the proposals have been read, and then I would propose a procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u67	Yes. Thank you. Well, I'll ask if it's all suggestions, or if anybody feels that his proposal didn't come up. If there's no one like that, I'll ask for the procedure proposal, it'll still be...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u68	Thank you, Mr President. So I would suggest a procedure by launching a so-called indicative vote, in order - a government proposal, that is, a government proposal to extend the emergency for 30 days, and that would be a proposal from the KSČM until 23. 12. Including, then it would be a KDU-ČSL proposal by 18. 12. with the condition of a compensation bonus for tradesmen of CZK 20,000 and then it would be the last proposal which was, and this is the immediate cancellation of the emergency situation to date 9. 12,24 zero. With an indicative vote that will have the largest number of votes, the vote would be the first vote in the so-called sharp vote. If you agree and the House will agree to my proposed procedure, then please let us proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u69	Thank you for the suggestion. Mr Kubíček is reporting, but I will have one more follow-up question before I give him my word, which is thirty days from the current length we have approved until the 12th if I am not mistaken.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u70	That means, from 12th December, 12th December, 30 days plus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u71	Yes, yes, let's be clear. And then there's the second question, if we can orientally vote on the proposal that has the compensatory bonus as a condition, because the Orientally vote should only be on proposals that differ only in that, please, Member. [[Nesroz.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This is a so-called conditional proposal, and we would have to vote on each one separately, which means that a proposal to increase the compensation bonus would have to fall first, and then to extend the emergency situation to the 18th.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u73	Yes, thank you. Mr. Home Secretary still. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u74	Thank you. I would like to clarify one thing, whether it is possible to vote on the KDU-ČSL proposal, which assumes a condition that we cannot fulfil at this point, because if I am not mistaken, the change in the compensation bonus is a change in the law and that point today, that is not a change in the law, that point today is a proposal to extend or agree to extend the emergency situation. I don't think the proposal is voteable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u75	I would see it as a task-setting, but the MP is applying for some kind of supplement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u76	Sorry, I would have understood that this would be an accompanying resolution. [[- Yes.]] If an extension were to pass according to the KDU, the KDU would propose an accompanying resolution. But I don't think it's possible to say at the same time in one vote that we're extending, and only on the condition that there will be a compensatory bonus, because then it could happen that the amendment to the law will not happen on 13 December and that the condition will not be fulfilled, then theoretically the emergency situation would not be extended. I don't think that's possible to vote this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u77	Mr. MP and then Mr. Stanjura came forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u78	So I agree with what the Vice Prime Minister has suggested here that this would be like an accompanying resolution. So we assumed that we were offering this as a gentleman's agreement, that this would work, by a week's extension and a solution to this proposal here. That's an accompanying resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u79	Okay, so we'd separate that out separately. President Stanjura withdraws his application, so, rapporteur, I would like you to recap the title of the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u80	So I'll do it again. Basically, if I listened to my previous speakers, it was said that we would fundamentally vote in the first vote, and that is, on the Government's proposal, that is, from 12 December 30 days to prolong the emergency situation. That would be the first vote we would have decided on in the indicative vote. Please, Mr Vice-President, initiate the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u81	Thank you. I'll recap the procedure just in case, and I'll have it approved first. So first of all, we'd vote on the individual proposals for extensions as they are in order, that is, 30 days to 23. 12., to 18. 12. and cancellation immediately, we would vote on this orientally and then possibly the accompanying motion for a resolution, as proposed by the KDU-ČSL. So this is a draft procedure, and I believe it was clear enough. If no one has anything, I'll let him vote. Initiating vote on this procedure. I said, who's in? Who's against it? [[Gong.]] Thank you. In vote number 6, 103 Members and Members are registered, for 100, against no one... for 99 in the end, against no one. So there's a match on that one. And now, please, individual proposals. No. Now we're going to vote on individual proposals, so please the first proposal is?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u82	So the first proposal, please, thank you, the first proposal is a proposal from the government, which means, from December 12th, 30 days of extension of the emergency situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u83	I think it's obvious. I therefore initiate an indicative vote. I'm asking who's in favour. That's vote number seven. 101 Members and Members are registered for 45. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u84	Thank you. The next proposal is a proposal from the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, and the proposal is - to extend the emergency situation, in an indicative vote, to 23. 12. Including.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u85	Thank you. I am initiating an indicative vote on this proposal. It's vote number eight. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? No. I'm not asking who's against, I'm sorry. In this vote number 8 100 Members, 101 Members and Members, shall be registered for 21. Next motion for an indicative vote, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u86	Thank you. Another proposal is the proposal from the KDU-ČSL pen, which is - the extension of the emergency state to 18. 12.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u87	Including. There. [[Member Birke: Including.]] Yes, thank you. I am initiating an indicative vote on this proposal. It's vote number nine. I'm asking who's in favour. Thank you. There are 100 Members and Members in voting number 9 for 8. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u88	And the final proposal is to cancel the emergency immediately, which means, to date 9. 12,24 zero.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u89	Okay, thank you. I am opening the vote on this indicative proposal. I'm asking who's in favour. Thank you. It's vote number 10. There are 100 Members and Members registered for 12. We have dealt with all the proposals in an orientation, and we will now vote on the one with the greatest support, that is, the Government proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u90	So, the government's proposal, I repeat the sharp vote, the government's proposal is to extend the emergency by 30 days on December 12th.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u91	Yes, there was an application for check-out, I checked you all out. Please sign up again with your cards before this decisive vote. The motion for a resolution would then be: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency by 30 days'. It's understood from the date it's now approved. [[Restlessness in the room.]] Initiating vote number 11. I'm asking who's in favour. - We checked out. Is there a problem with the voting device? - Who's against it? If we have a problem with the voting device, if that is the case, now I don't know if the vote - if no one has any objections, I will announce the result of the vote. But I did notice some noise in the hall. Everything okay? Thus, if necessary, the number 11 vote, in this decisive vote, 98 Members and Members were voted in favour of 46, against 45. The motion was not accepted. So we would move on to another proposal that had the next biggest support, which was to 23. 12. If I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u92	"The Chamber of Deputies approves the extension of the emergency situation until 23. 12. including.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u93	Yes, that was the motion for a resolution. Initiating vote, I ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 12 98 Members and Members are registered, for 53, against 36. And I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. Quiet in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u94	I believe that the other proposals are unvoted. However, the accompanying resolution, which was the subject of the debate, must be voted on from the KDU-ČSL MEP's pen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u95	I agree. Please read the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u96	It was a condition... There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u97	It is an accompanying resolution, we can vote it now, or we can argue whether it was conditional on a specific extension or not. I'd consider it quicker to deal with him by voting at this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u98	If the President agrees, we will deal with this matter by voting, and I think it is pure for all parties. So the proposal: The Chamber of Deputies approves that - or the government's call for a condition to increase compensation bonus for businessmen of CZK 20,000. Is this how you agree with this proposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u99	The Member will specify, I think that there should be a request for a government or a deposit to the government. Member, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u100	Let this be very simple, dear colleagues, KDU-ČSL calls on the government to increase the compensation bonus for businessmen to 20,000. That's how I lectured. Play it from the record.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u101	Okay, so the Chamber of Deputies is calling on the government to do this? [[Disagree in the hall.]] I would not like to vote on whom KDU-ČSL calls.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u102	If I may, Mr President, I believe that the Chamber of Deputies cannot challenge anyone, but may ask. This means, in this case, "The Chamber of Deputies is asking the Government to increase the compensation bonus for the tradesmen of CZK 20,000" and please let us all adopt it this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u103	I think he can even challenge, but I don't know if anyone cares. Okay, the Chamber of Deputies is asking for a government... [[Members shout their opinions.]] I'd ask for peace in the hall! There's one more point to go. The Member wants to be more specific.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u104	"The Chamber of Deputies asks the government to prepare an amendment to the law that will allow a compensatory bonus to be raised to 20 grand."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u105	Mr Kubíček with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If the resolution were to be read separately, I would understand it. But it was read conditionally. You took it as a condition of the term that was there, and I think it's unvoting. It can't be!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u107	We approved the procedure in which we separated it as an accompanying resolution. I think the motion for a resolution has now been made clear on the microphone, and we could end the debate by letting it vote. Unless there's a major protest against it. [[Members comment on the situation from the point of view.]] President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u108	I, too, come to the mill with a little bit of mine. Nothing that has been read in the general debate can be voted on. We can't change the text now, whether it calls or asks. We must stick to what has been read in the debate. There are some doubts as to whether it was even read in the form of a vote. But I understood from my point of view that if the successful KDU-ČSL proposal was successful, the vote on the accompanying resolution would follow. This proposal was not adopted. But once again I refer to it, we'd have to take a break and look at the log. I don't think we can vote at all at this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u109	Unfortunately, I wasn't here when it was loaded, so I can't comment on that. The minister was the first to report, then I will give the honourable Member so much room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u110	If you don't mind, I would suggest a solution that might allow this to be handled by one vote. I take it that Mr President is convinced that this is voteable and is about to allow for a vote. In that case, I would object to his progress, and with one vote, we can resolve this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u111	That's how I'd deal with it. The alternative is, of course, that we interrupt the negotiations and consult each other for five minutes on how to proceed. So there is a procedural proposal to vote without further debate. I'll let him vote. I am opening the vote on this procedural proposal, namely that we will vote on the KDU-ČSL proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u112	No, no, no. Mr President...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u113	Yeah, was that an objection? I'm sorry, I misheard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u114	No, the procedure was backwards. You're prepared to vote on this because you believe it's voteable. I object to your procedure, which I beg you to take a vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u115	Thank you. I record this objection, I will vote on it without delay. So I'm just gonna reset the vote. And there is an objection to my progress that this proposal is voteable. I am opening the vote on this objection. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 14, 96 Members and Members, in favour of 55, against 16. A successful objection was therefore raised to my action. So nothing will be voted on now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u116	Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, let me just conclude by thanking you all and thank you for your confidence in the crisis time of the crisis promoter or, respectively, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u117	I would very much like to thank the rapporteur too. [[Thank you. A crisis correspondent.]] That he could do it all. Mr Feri is voting, I presume. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u118	I voted against the number 14 vote. I've got a pro on the high. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u119	Okay, thank you. I think that's how we dealt with all the essentials of this point, and I'm ending it. And I'll hand over the meeting proceedings. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-09-ps2017-076-01-001-001.u120	Good evening. Before discussing the next item number two, which is
