ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u1	8. Proposal for the Waste Act (the House Press) 676/11/ - returned to the Senate I thank the Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabco, for taking the floor at the rapporteur's table. I also welcome Senator Zdeněk Nytra among us, who will present to us the Senate proposal. The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House Press 676/12. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] I therefore ask that the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec speak first for the appellants for the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled. Minister, I will give you my word right away, but first I will ask the House for peace so that we can discuss the bill in a sufficiently dignified environment. If you want to discuss other topics, whether they have already voted or which are waiting for us, please basically in the foyer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u2	Thank you for your word and your attention. Mr President, colleagues, I am here about the law, or I have spoken about the circulation package as a whole so many times and in so much context that I will of course no longer hold you back by some long opening word. I will just say that I was very happy about the debate that took place in the Senate, but - and this before - but I cannot recommend the proposal as it came from the Senate, i.e. the amendments that came from the Senate for several reasons. The main reason is that for the three first laws, i.e. for waste, end-of-life products and the amendment law, there was a recommendation from the Senate in all cases to prolong the effectiveness or to postpone the effectiveness of the law by year. I must say that the shift in efficiency by a year alone is a major problem for the Ministry of the Environment for several reasons. First of all, because we didn't, virtually. we would get into major problems from the point of view of the transposition deadlines, because the transposition should have already taken place in July of this year. We are in some kind of agreement with the European Commission. But if the transposition were to shift to January 1, 2022 - and beware here, it is not about the validity of the law, but about its effectiveness, and we have verified it - that is the first quite fundamental problem. The second problem, of course, is that we would shift by a year a whole range of very specific advantages that the law has in terms of the right path and departure from landfilling. Maybe you registered the last numbers a few days ago. The Czech Republic is still dumping waste significantly. And that shift would be delayed again, because it wouldn't run up a sorting discount, it wouldn't get there an increase in the landfill fee, etc. I want to assure everyone because you have received a number of opinions, opinions supported by, for example, the Chamber of Commerce or the Confederation of Industry. There must have been opinions from the Association of Local Authorities that wanted that shift. We understand that the legi-vacation period is short. Yes, we know. We're counting on it. Yet, despite everything, we are convinced that there will be no collapse in any way in the waste management, as some haunted. They won't be cleared, virtually. yellow containers don't disappear from our streets, as some alarm messages appear, of course. I take it a little bit that the junkyard lobby, which is bothering some things there, for example, that the new after-sorting remains will not be able to dump, but they will have to use them in another way, so at the last minute they are still trying to shift efficiency by a year in some kind of belief that maybe it could be completely lost. So while I realize that, once again, the legitimisation period is short, because that law should apply as of 1 January 2021, there are a number of specific things in the transitional provisions where it is still possible to prepare for how those laws will start to work. That means, unfortunately, even if we had a consent opinion there, I think in two cases, or the consent opinion of the Ministry of the Environment on proposals from the Senate, namely the removal of the proposed amendment to the landfill fee in transitional provisions. Here's the consensus... Eventually, the House, of course, pushed for something else. So I had him in the Senate, too. And we also had a favourable opinion on some technical formulas. But it is precisely because of several other dissenting opinions and, above all, the dissenting position, which concerns, as in the other two laws, that the Senate calls for a year to shift efficiency, and I say again, that is unacceptable for us. The law has been under discussion for a very long time and we believe that all - municipalities, companies, operators, industry, tradesmen - know very well what the law contains, and the overwhelming majority, or the vast majority of them already want us to really approve the law and be able to follow it. I do not agree with the version coming from the Senate. And then I'll ask you again to support the original version that we approved here in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u3	I thank the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabco. And before we continue, I apologise to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from the Minister of Health, Jan Blatný, to the end of the day. I will now ask Senator Zdeněk Nytra to take the floor, which will justify the Senate's decision. Senator, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Government, honourable Members, fellow Members, I am going to confine myself in my opening speech to basically responding to the Minister's speech, because the fundamental problem, of course, is in the effectiveness of the law. I do not share the optimism of the Minister that less than a month of legisvacation time is sufficient for municipalities and all obliged persons to get acquainted with the content of the law, although it has been preparing for four or five years. I don't want to be wrong, it's not important. I will read one sentence from the explanatory memorandum to this law: In view of the new approach to a number of issues dealt with in this Act against the existing Waste Act, effectiveness is chosen so that the law has sufficient legitimisation time to allow all obliged persons to adapt to the new rules. - Three weeks, I say, will be the deadline. I don't think any landfill lobby affected the Senate's position. I would be very surprised, given the composition of the Senate, on the contrary. Therefore, or even in view of the fact that today, on 1 December, or perhaps on 12 November, when the Senate approved it, all the implementing regulations envisaged not only by this law, but also by the others, were not completed, so 75 of the 75 Senators present decided to vote in favour of this amendment. I'm not gonna convince you or ask you to approve the Senate proposal. It's your responsibility, your competence. I merely considered it necessary to draw your attention to the risks involved with effect from 1 January next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u5	I thank Senator Zdeněk Nytr, and I will now ask the rapporteur on a case-by-case basis, if they wish to comment on the Senate's decision, first of all, Mr Jan Schiller for the Public Administration Committee. It's not like that. The rapporteur for the Economic Committee, Mr Ivan Adamec, is interested. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Minister, Senator, unlike the Minister's opinion, I understand what led them to this. On the other hand, in my view, and not only as a rapporteur, but also as a person who moves in this sphere, I think that even a year of shifting the deadline will not improve anything at all. And I certainly do not intend to vote in favour of either of these proposals, because we in the municipalities have started preparing for new legislation and we have found that this is not a simple matter at all. And I admit that the most important thing about this bill - and I understand why it is designed to work better with waste, I understand it all, but there is a problem that we're going to recycle, yes, we're going to separate, but the separation comes across various problems that can somehow be solved. But the recycling, when we know today that there are so-called plastic materials that you can't recycle, you can't even burn them, you can't even dump them, so what about it? I think that recycling is a big problem and the time limits for the municipalities - and I understand those who have an idea of the clean environment - the time limits for the municipalities are so gallant and unrealistic that I think that the problems that we will encounter on the way with these bills will be so much that we will return to it anyway. So, in my opinion, I will not support either the Senate version or the House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u7	I thank the rapporteur, Ivan Adamc, for the economic committee. Before we continue the debate, I state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Pavel Kováčik apologises at 16 o'clock for health reasons. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] Now here, with priority rights on behalf of the Czech Pirate Party's MP, according to the information of the President of the Club, he is authorized to present the opinion of the Club František Elfmark, so I give him the floor with priority rights, and they are also registered in writing by my colleague Balcarová and Krutáková. Ambassador, I will not give you my word yet, and I will ask the House once again for peace. If you want a break for any discussion that is necessary, ask through the MP club, or transfer the discussion to the foyer. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have here again the so-called circulation package. The Senate has returned all these four papers with its amendments, and even with House press 679, which are packages, has proposed rejecting it. I would just briefly comment on our parliamentary club, as we see it. Senators have proposed and approved several changes, but from the number of amendments we had here in the House, and there were almost 100, it is difficult to compare the figures in any way. We pirát have tabled a total of 29 amendments, but unfortunately the general majority has not been approved. If I had looked at what the Senate was dealing with with its amendments, I would have wanted to touch on one thing in particular and this concerns the repeal of paragraphs 4 and 5 of Section 155. This is the Waste Act, House Press 676. 73 out of 74 senators agreed in total on this amendment. This is the abolition of the passage which the amendment of Members Staněk and Zahradník introduced into the law. It was an amendment which not only we pirát from the very beginning considered to be very controversial and inappropriate. The view that the proposed changes in the fees obligations of landfill companies are unacceptable, up to unconstitutional, is shared by many entities, from the municipalities on whose territory landfills are located, to various organisations. And I'm sure as well as I do, you've all run out of e-mails about this issue. I'm just making a brief comment. This proposal allows landfill companies to avoid paying fees to municipalities and the State Environmental Fund by identifying waste as being used at landfill in the first phase of landfill operation, including backwards. This amendment doesn't take place until 2015. For these waste the landfill operator does not have to create even a reserve and actually a reserve for the reclamation of landfills. By doing so, municipalities and the State Environmental Fund will lose considerable funds. The so-called technical security of the landfill should be used and reported at a maximum of 20 per cent, according to the amendment to the Waste Act, 25 per cent is proposed. What does that mean? If we let these amendments go, it will mean that companies who have had the fines and the waste payments they have not paid their fees for in the past would no longer have to pay those fees. You all know, for example, the most famous case in Čáslav, which was also remembered in the media, where, according to public sources, up to 91 percent of the waste stored without charges was stored in the past. We could name other landfills - in Jindřichův Hradec, in Hořovice and, for example, in Venice nad Jizerou. I would like to stop at this package once again on one very important issue concerning double data. We have a waste law ahead of us, and I've already mentioned double data here once, and we've also discussed it on the environmental committee. At previous readings of this law, we have dealt with many topics to promote recycling. We were dealing with sorting discounts, energy recovery of waste. But all of these things are closely related to how much waste we're actually currently producing, how much we've produced in recent years and how much waste is being treated in general. And here we are dealing with a problem, and that's that we don't know exactly. We don't even know the approximate numbers, because the data of the Czech Statistical Office are very different from the Ministry of Environment, and we consider this to be a very big problem. [[15.50 hours]] I interviewed the Minister last week to tell me how the solution to this problem is progressing. The results of the ISPO audit, which started in 2016, are still not available according to my information. The methodology of the Ministry of Environment still does not correspond to Eurostat methodology, and yet there was an agreement between the Ministry of Environment and the Czech Statistical Office that the Czech Statistical Office will take data on waste production from the Ministry of Environment and use it as a basis for statistics and reporting. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that by the end of October, the Czech Statistical Office publishes statistics on the production, recovery and disposal of waste for the previous year each year. This year, however, none has yet been published, despite the fact that according to the editorial plan published it should have been. Moreover, this was not justified for users, it was not notified to them anywhere whether the data would be released later or perhaps to start following the data of the Ministry of Environment or any data published somewhere else. That seems strange to me at least, and I hope that this will be properly explained. We have adopted a resolution within the Environment Committee, where perhaps we should get some things by the end of the year, and I am also going to interpelate Minister Brabec on Thursday. If I were to say, at the end of my speech, how do we feel about this: the Senate has recommended some amendments, and they would certainly be beneficial, but we have seen from the outset that the entire circulation package is not ambitious enough. I've said a lot about it here. I think it's all been said here. That is why we cannot support, as we did not support the House versions anyway, nor will we support the Senate versions. We cannot support basically what the Ministry has prepared, because we think there are a lot of things, amendments and their number - a hundred - clearly, clearly shows that the legislation is not well prepared, and we think it should look completely different. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u9	I thank Mr Elfmark. We will now continue the debate with Mrs Dana Balcarová's speech, and Jana Krutáková will prepare herself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to follow up here with my colleague František Elfmark, who here emphasized that we have waited quite a long time for the submission of government legislation submitted by the Ministry of the Environment, so-called. waste package, which was to set the beginning, circular economy in the Czech Republic, circular economy. For us, in fact, how this legislation is grasped, how little it is ambitious, was a great disappointment. It's a little incomprehensible to me, we expected that we would actually feel the way we felt, given what the raw material crisis in Europe is, that we would look more at waste as a raw material. We will look for a way to best recycle it and re-use it. There are a lot of possibilities and inspiration as it can be. We could have actually set the beginning of this process, but the way the legislation is taken, we're wasting our time, and it's a shame. So, as my colleague František Elfmark said, we cannot support this legislation. And then I'd like to talk about the waste dump fees. We had a round table on the Environment Committee on this subject because I was invited to do so via the media. This was specifically the mentioned landfill in Čáslav, where the company that operates the landfill does not pay fees to the municipality and does not pay fees to the state, and the state budget is actually losing CZK 100 million, which could otherwise be invested directly in environmental protection through the State Environmental Fund. So I think it's a big, big loss. And the fact that the Chamber of Deputies adopted the amendment of Member Staněk, who actually put the possibility in that legislation that landfillers can thus circumvent the obligation to pay the fee, and even back from 2015, that means that the company that has already been fined will not have to pay it now - that seems really terrible to me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u11	Thank you, Mrs Balcarová. Now, Mrs Jana Krutáková and Ivan Adamec will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, let me introduce you to the position of the STAN movement, which has already been mentioned at today's press conference. Members of the Mayors movement and independent members will support waste laws as presented by the Senate. I would like to briefly mention the amendment which deals with the abolition of § 155 para. 4 and 5. I have already talked about the unconstitutional nature of this proposal when we discuss the law here in the House. The section concerns the re-inhibiting of the waste storage charge to the landfill at the first stage of its operation and, in particular, repeals the obligation to create a financial reserve for the reclamation of the landfill. Thus, we would also lose sufficient funds to reclamation and re-establish the waste disposal area. As regards the effectiveness of waste laws, today we have 1 December and the laws have not yet passed their legislative process. The implementing rules are in the interdepartmental commentary procedure and are often due to expire on 17 December. We therefore have five working days left by the end of the year to fill in the comments. For such complex legislation, we believe that it is relatively little time, and therefore we support the extension or delay of effectiveness up to 1. 1. 2022. In the last two weeks, I have dealt with almost 50 mayors in the South Moravian Region. We discussed the terms of the new waste legislation, we also went through the transitional provisions mentioned herein. But for many municipalities, this legislation will mean a fundamental change in the municipal waste management system. It will therefore be necessary to set new rules according to legislation and thus create room for familiarisation with them. At present, when we have thirty days by the end of the year, and in addition, municipalities are facing the problems that coronavirus has brought us, there is really little. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Krutáková. Now, Mr Ivan Adamec, Mr Marek Výborný will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, colleagues, I would like to say a few more words about the proposed laws, actually four waste laws, which are closely related. And maybe I would refer to my first performance at first reading, where I pointed out here that I am in a situation that, of course, needs a change, that a long time ago ended the fight of the landfillers, the burners, that it's about something else, that it's about separation, recycling, the use of the materials, the adaptation of companies to the trend that I think is inevitable. The minister here said, I think it's the right thing to do. Yeah, but everybody's a little different. Of course, I hear the opinions here that the material is not ambitious enough. Well, since I hear whining here that there are no implementing regulations, decrees and that we actually have few days to do it, it may be a good thing that ambition is not so great, because I, as a conservative politician, advocate that changes are to be made with reason and slow, because, as the people say, in Czech, the work is prematurely little valid. And sometimes I say not paid enough. [[Permanent noise in the hall.]] [[16.00 hours]] Of course, we all know it's coming, because we've talked about this so many times, it just ends. There were ambitious proposals that should be 24. Then there was a compromise. I don't think there's any point in going back to the debate. Everyone wants it. I know what companies are starting to do here, they're just gonna do good business, consulting firms, companies that are actually gonna manage the waste, they're gonna handle it. I think the reason is quite clear: because the waste was, are and will be a valuable commodity and good business. Let's face it. That's been going on for over a hundred years. If you look at America in the 1920s, look who was then providing garbage, tying up waste and managing waste within American cities. I don't think there's any point in any further discussion. But I think the worst part is at the moment, or I would say the least conformal position of the municipalities that have the task of providing waste, because everyone who says they want it, they want it to change, and they're lashing out with the environment, so when it comes to breaking bread and paying it, they don't yell so much anymore. It needs to be said that we just have to pay for it and that maybe the discussions here about sorting discounts and the like, that we could have paid more attention to it, but that's just gone at this point. I really don't think pushing a year is gonna help us do anything. The minister says it's gonna sit down. Let us believe that yes, that we are all going to do this because this is not a simple situation. I was talking about a plastic problem that can't be recycled at the moment, they can't even dump or burn, and what do you want to do with it? And there's a lot of problems. When you look at the separation of waste in cities, you suddenly find that the will would be there, more separate containers, but you're running into a problem where to put it from spatial point of view and also from other aspects, where all citizens say they want biowaste, but not in front of their house, because the container just stinks. What we're gonna say to each other is that it's reality, it's got to be fought. However, I would say to the full conclusion, I would also imagine a discussion more widely, I also do not like a lot of things there, but that is the way it goes in the House, that not everything you imagine is going through a legislative process here. I have to say again, I'm a little worried that the municipalities aren't gonna take it completely, because they're gonna get the sorting discounts, it's gonna be difficult, it's gonna be really hard to get them, and it can be an effort... In order for our citizens to understand this, because when you suddenly raise the waste prices, and of course you have to do it here, and radically enough, the question is, did we look at them so well and try to lead them to the feeling of nature, to the ecology, because it will be important there if they understand it and respect it and behave like that. If we fail to convince them and say that it is necessary, because we are ordered by an institution of the European Union, and that is why we have to do it, and it will cost so much and so much, I think we can make the best bill and we can talk about it all the way we want, if citizens don't take it as their own, then it's just never going to work out well. Let me finish with the sentence I said here a few months ago, and it needs to be realized. Waste has been, is and will always be a good business. It's up to us how we do it so that all those participating groups are satisfied. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u15	I thank Mr Ivan Adamc. Before Mr.Marek gets the floor Výborný, there is a factual comment by Ondřej Veselý. It's electronic, it takes precedence both in fact and electronically. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I generally have no objection to what my colleague Adamec said. Of course, the issue of waste is very complex. However, there was only one part of me that pulled my ears, and it was the separation of biowaste. I don't know how you have it in Trutnov, Mr. Colleague, but in Písek, no one cares about the brown bio-waste containers, smells like Písek, and they're even so interested that we've had to put them on the streets repeatedly because people have dragged them home to each other, how they've successfully enjoyed them. This means that if you have a problem with the way biowaste is sorted or handled, we will be happy to advise you in Písek. So, on the other hand, there's a lot of interest in those trash cans, and I'd say we can be a huge inspiration in Pisek, in the sense that biowaste is really sorting out very well, and people get used to it very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. She also made a factual comment to my colleague, Ivan Adamec, to whom I will also give the floor on a factual point. A colleague of the Excellent is on hold. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u18	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I would say by your means to my colleague Veselý that I thank him for his lesson, but we did not understand each other. Of course, there is a great deal of interest in brown trash cans, this garbage can, too, we need to ask. But these are large-scale containers that are put on a housing estate where there's nowhere to put these brown bins. That's the problem with how to solve it. That's what I said as one example where it's causing problems, because the really large container is something completely different from the brown bins in the housing estate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Comrade Marek Výborný, so far the last one entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, I could be losing the exchange between Mr. Veselý and Adamec right now. In Heřmanův Město, we handed out brown biopellets for all numbers. Everyone is satisfied and we are happy to sort, so come to Heřman's Town to see how waste management works. But I didn't want to talk about it, it was just a gloss to the debate that was said here. I would like to express myself as a Member who has the repeatedly mentioned Čáslav here literally over the hill. I often drive around, I see the artificial hill that has grown there over the last few years, and I have also repeatedly communicated with people from the management of the town of Čáslav. So I would also like to support what we have said here in the end also KDU-ČSL MEPs have already mentioned at first reading here at the Chamber of Deputies and what the senators have also talked about, namely, Senator Jitka Seitlová, and this concerns - today the Minister has not mentioned this, he has spoken about effectiveness, delaying efficiency as a problem, but he himself has agreed on the floor of the Senate to release those clearly unconstitutional provisions in paragraphs 4 and 5 of Section 155 of the Waste Act. In the end, this is also a merit of a senatorial amendment, which I would like to support here not only as a Member, but as a member of the KDU-ČSL. Indeed, what has been put there by Mr Staněk's amendment is obviously unconstitutional on the basis of the experts' comments. And we believe that this cannot affect the legitimate and foreseeable income of municipalities and cities as well as the obligation to make a financial reserve and reclamation should not be interrupted. And it's not just about reducing the incomes of municipalities and cities, it's also about the State Environmental Fund. I think we need to perceive here with care of the proper economy and the income of the state. My colleagues have said it before me. I think that is one of the reasons why we should support the text forwarded to the Chamber of Deputies by the Senate. Just let me maybe ask the Minister a question. You talked about the time pressure and the transposition needs to be completed as quickly as possible. Well, I could say that we are twisting the fourth year here in the Chamber of Deputies and that, of course, the waste legislation, although very complicated, very complicated, could have been discussed earlier. And a really big question mark is the accompanying implementing legislation. If the decrees, whether it's a waste catalogue or a waste management decree, are still not on the table at the moment, it's very difficult for the management of municipalities and cities to prepare for it in any way. We approved so many transposition standards here on this House's soil after the deadline, and it has always been possible in some way. I am convinced that this year, although it may be unpleasant, will essentially create the space for municipalities and cities, eventually for the Ministry of the Environment, to complete implementing regulations. I am convinced that, in this sense, nothing really escapes us and we can prepare ourselves for the perhaps very difficult conditions that will be, and as Mr Adamec spoke about it, the explanation to the citizens that we are indeed at a different time than we were ten fifteen years ago, that the sorting, recycling, waste separation are simply bought out by increasing prices. We can also create room for this by delaying the effectiveness of this law, as the senators ultimately propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u21	I thank Mr Marek the Výborný. I have here a factual remark from Mr Antonín Staněk. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I just want to respond to my previous speaker, and I'm not going to be impertinent, because I think I'm going to talk about some ethics and decency. So if I did what I had to say, I'd have to criticize myself sharply. Mr President, I am always convinced that the truth and nothing but the truth are to be spoken in the Chamber of Deputies and in plenary. What you have said here in an awkward shortcut is that my amendment, as it was tabled, is unconstitutional, so I want to assure you that when I tabled this amendment to the Economic Committee, I presented it on the basis of an analysis that confirms that it is not unconstitutional. And I just want to point out that my proposal was rejected on the Economic Committee. Furthermore, this proposal continued to the next committee where it was adopted in the environment. So please talk exactly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u23	Thank you. Here is another factual comment by a colleague of Jan zahradník. I ask the House for peace. Mr Jan zahradník has a word on the point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I shall make a brief statement to a few of my previous speakers. The amount to be reported in column 010 of the CR SA template shall be reported in column 060 of the CR SA template. 4 and 5 relate to materials which were properly in accordance with the integrated permit and the operating order of the landfill site and were used as technical security for the landfill to build dams, roads, reinforcement of slopes and as such have not been charged in the past. The point is that now, perhaps, the city of Čáslav wants to recover these sort of alleged charges. But it wasn't waste, it was technical security materials for the dump. That's the point. The Supreme Administrative Court has already rejected such efforts several times. And the constitutionality or the unconstitutionalness. The statements made by colleagues about the unconstitutionalness that has been made here are based on one statement of constitutional lawyers. I, on the other hand, can oppose the expression of a very reputable constitutional lawyer, Professor Gerloch, who, on the contrary, found this proposal not to be retroactive and therefore compatible with the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u25	I thank Mr Zahradník. That was the last one entered into the debate. I'm asking who else is applying. With a factual remark, Mr Marek Výborný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u26	Thank you for the floor. By your means, Mr Vice-President, to the colleagues who have spoken here. So I guess there's no point in convincing ourselves whether or not he's unconstitutional. Only the Constitutional Court can decide that in the finals. But about what my colleague Zahradník said, just one comment. If what you say is true, 91 percent of the waste in Čáslav alone would be used for the various technical security of the landfill. I think that anyone who can sort of think about it is probably not 9 percent of the waste and 91% of what would ensure the technical security of the landfill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u27	I thank you for keeping time on a factual note. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. Minister, before you have the final word, I state the apology received, Mr Beitl and Mr Bartošek, who apologize for working reasons until the end of the day. Please, Minister, your final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u28	Thank you. Thank you for this debate, which has really ended many months and I dare say that for many years, and that is my basic response. I am convinced, and I have said this several times in my opening words, that it is one of the most discussed laws, or new laws, or novels that have taken place here in the House over the last few years. And not only discussed here or in the Senate, but, of course, discussed on dozens or even hundreds of seminars that took place throughout the Czech Republic, which were organized either by the Ministry or by other bodies, and in which municipalities were also invited and the municipalities discussed. In other words, we have talked about this many times with the Union of Towns and Municipalities, with the Association of Local Authorities and others. I said the final proposal was a compromise. And it's not a dirty word to me. For me, please, this is the result of something that is a certain, let's say, revolution in that waste management that always carries something with it. I believe that this compromise is balanced. And again, and this is very important to me, I want to assure you that, as the Ministry of the Environment, precisely because we realise that the legisvacation period is short, we first put in transitional provisions that allow, in a number of cases, municipalities, for example, to collect compensation for municipal waste from citizens on the basis of existing generally binding decrees, or operators of installations can continue to operate according to permits issued under existing conditions and other and other transitional provisions, and that we will help everyone who asks for it, and we will, of course, guide them all so that the big change that happens goes as smoothly as possible. However, in any case, I would ask you once again to vote in favour of what was coming from the Chamber of Deputies, and so that this circular revolution can actually begin with effect from 1 January next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u29	Thank you, Minister of the Environment. And the senator is also interested in the final word. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u30	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, just two small points. I don't want to referee here on those cited paragraphs 4 and 5 in Section 155, and I also don't want to touch lawyers, but two lawyers - three legal opinions. I have also noted that it is genuine retroactivity and false retroactivity from both sides. So we really did rather proceed from some precautionary point of view, because it could lead to chaos in legislation. The second point concerns that although we are proposing to postpone efficiency, we did not move those back time periods, that is, we did not move the ban on landfilling and so on, that is, the time limits that are set in the law have been preserved. So many of my two notes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-004-008.u31	I thank Senator Nytr and we will continue by taking the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I shall make a motion for a resolution as soon as the number of Members applied for is settled. "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft Waste Act, according to House Press 676/11, as approved by the Senate, according to House Press 676/12." I've started voting number 19 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 19, from 177 Members present for 17 against 13. The motion was not accepted. I state that we have not adopted the Act as approved by the Senate. [[16.20 hours]] We will proceed further, according to § 97 para. 5 of the Act on our Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt this resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of all Members is needed, i.e. 101. The number of votes needed is already set. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves the draft Waste Act, in which it was forwarded to the Senate, according to House Press 676/11'. I've started voting number 20, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 20 of the presence 179 for 130, against 6. The motion was accepted. I state that the bill has been approved, we have adopted the law. I thank the Minister, thank the Senator and end this point. We're going to continue with the laws of the Minister of the Environment, and that's
