ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-002-059.u1	59. Government bill on end-of-life products / House printing 677/ - first reading Before I give the floor to the Minister for the Environment Richard Brabec to take up his opening words for the Government of the Czech Republic, I will ask Mrs Jana Krutáková, who is the rapporteur for the first reading, to take her place at the rapporteur's table. Minister, once the atmosphere calms down and the noise level is low enough... There. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-002-059.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for trying to create a pleasant atmosphere for me. I hope it lasts at least ten seconds. Thank you once again for the previous vote, colleagues. The bill I'm proposing right now is a twin, or actually one of the triplets, because the fourth law is a change, and the last one will be a draft of the packaging law in no time. The bill on end-of-life products aims primarily to ensure a high level of protection of the environment and people's health against the negative effects of waste from selected products. The selected products covered by the proposed legislation are mainly electrical and electronic equipment, so-called electrical equipment, batteries and accumulators, tyres and, where appropriate, vehicles. You all know from your practice or experience that there are a number of places, collection points, where you can just put off electrical equipment, old electrical equipment, batteries, accumulators, or tyres, even where you can put off vehicles if you earn your life, even if we don't postpone them so often. The purpose of the new regulation is therefore to comprehensively adapt the issues of selected products, from their production and marketing to their processing and from the moment they became waste. These are so-called end-of-life products. The proposal transposes a number of European Union regulations, including the latest EU regulations from the so-called circular package, and fully replaces the adjustment of end-of-life products contained in the current Waste Act and the amendment of some other laws, where the regulation in the Waste Act has become very complicated over time, and the allocation of rules for the treatment of end-of-life products into a separate law is also based on the Government's resolution on the so-called ecoaudit, because it has simply proved that the inclusion of this very specific category in the Waste Act has very often triggered a situation where it was necessary to amend the Waste Act, which has already been amended many times because of the fact that major changes are also in Europe from the point of view of end-of-life products. The main changes to the applicable adjustment are: Unification and comprehensive regulation of rules for the creation and functioning of so-called collective systems, which are currently insufficient in the field of electrical equipment. It also introduces a new concept of the so-called simplified waste regime, replacing the rule laid down in the present Waste Act, according to which the product recovered becomes waste only at the time of handover to the person entitled to recover or dispose of it. [[10.40 hours]] Next, and I've already mentioned that, for me, the most crucial is the word of ecomodulation. So far, it's hidden under one inconspicuous pause, but it's hiding there because it's a new word, and it's hiding something that all European countries are working hard on now - manufacturers, scientists, of course officials - together, and that's the principle where they would have a lot more money, whether they're positive or negative, i.e. a disadvantage by financial burden, to take account of the environmental impact of products when determining the amount of money contribution by the collective system operator for a particular product or product type. The cash contribution is paid by the manufacturer, which is already valid today, in order to ensure the obligation of recovery. In fact, when you buy a product, you already pay a certain fee in its price for the manufacturer's extended liability, i.e. The EPR, which is a European principle, takes responsibility for the fate of the product until the end of its lifetime, and therefore the possibility of it being recovered and subsequently recycled. It is quite clear in the case of electrical equipment, accumulators and tyres, and we are able to increase the share of backup of electrical equipment, accumulators and tyres better and better. The requirements for basic parameters of re-take points networks for waste electrical equipment, waste batteries and accumulators are increased. A new obligation is also laid down to create a public return point for a certain number of inhabitants of a higher local government unit. It is proven, like those containers, that the more of these places there are, the greater the chance that people will actually bring in old electrical equipment, accumulators, batteries, or tires. The draft law also transfers the return targets directly to individual producers of electrical equipment, respectively. collective system operators in such a way that they have an obligation to provide the required directive... [[Members of Chvoj's laptop fell off.]] I've seen some shocked colleagues, they're dropping computers... The required minimum level of recovery of waste electrical equipment, and the Czech Republic was thus not exposed to the risk of failure to meet its binding objective. Once again, my colleagues, I would like to point out here that this bill has also been approved, and the support has been expressed by key partners in terms of the transition to the circular economy, i.e. representatives of the Union of Towns and Communities, representatives of the Confederation of Industry, the Chamber of Commerce and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-002-059.u3	There. I thank the Minister of the Environment. He is very lenient to colleagues and colleagues because I had a lot to do to avoid interrupting him because of the level of noise that some of the presidents of the parliamentary clubs also made. I will therefore now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Jana Krutáková to take up her report. And before I give her my word, I will ask the House again for peace! If you are discussing a subject other than the press 677, it is crucially in the foyer! Just a moment, rapporteur. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-002-059.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to introduce you to the news report on the bill. The Ministry of Environment, together with the Ministry of Industry and Trade, on the basis of a plan of legislative work by the Government for 2019, submit to the Government a draft bill on selected end-of-life products. The proposed law is one of the four legislations that are currently being put forward to regulate the issue of waste management. In view of the need to implement the transposition of new European regulations and the above inexplicability of the existing regulation, a completely new concept and detailed adjustment of waste management issues are given. The separation of rules for the treatment of end-of-life products into the law itself is also based on the material Proposals for solutions to measures to strengthen the competitiveness and development of business in the Czech Republic with regard to environmental protection, the so-called ecoaudit, and which is aimed at simplifying environmental legislation, respectively. to reduce the administrative complexity of environmental protection processes. The reason for creating two separate regulations is not only an effort to clarify legislation, but also practical reasons. First of all, these are the specifics of end-of-life products, which in many respects are out of the system of the basic waste regime. Another practical reason is the fact that EU directives on end-of-life products are very often amended and the entire waste law has always had to be amended to implement their transposition, even if the changes concerned only parts of the end-of-life legislation. The purpose of the new regulation is to comprehensively adapt the issues of selected products throughout their life cycle, from their production and marketing to their processing after they have become waste. The regulation of the content of hazardous substances in selected products, prevention of the generation of waste from selected products, regulated recovery or collection of end-of-life products is therefore the subject of the proposed act in order to ensure the greatest possible proportion of their re-use and recycling and special rules for the treatment of end-of-life products, including their recovery and disposal. The proposed law also largely unites and comprehensively regulates the rules for the creation and functioning of collective systems, which are currently completely inadequate in the field of electrical equipment, in particular. The aim of the bill is to ensure a high level of protection of the environment and people's health against the negative effects of waste from selected products, in accordance with the relevant EU rules. The Act on selected end-of-life products has the status of a special legal standard in relation to the new proposed Waste Act, which will be applied as a priority. The Waste Act as a general legal standard will be applied subsidiarityally, unless otherwise provided by the Act on selected end-of-life products. The principle of ecomodulation is introduced into Czech legislation, i.e. taking into account the re-use of packaging, its recyclability or the content of hazardous substances. The fee of manufacturers and suppliers for placing selected products on the market will newly depend on it. Less repairability or recyclability of the product will result in a higher price for its use or disposal, and vice versa. The objective of this instrument is therefore the economic disadvantage of products with higher environmental impacts in order to eliminate them on the market at the expense of products with more favourable environmental characteristics. Furthermore, the draft is intended to bring to the municipalities several points of product re-collection and introduces an obligation to include the recycling fee on receipts and invoices for consumer clarity on the price of recycling of the goods purchased by them. Penalties for offences shall also be laid down. So much for my report on legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-002-059.u5	I thank the rapporteur, Ms Jana Krutáková. I am opening a general debate. The first entry is Mr Elfmark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-002-059.u6	Well, thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would therefore like to recall three points in this law for end-of-life products, which will certainly be a friction area in all committees, or at least in the environment. The first point concerns - the most important part seems to me to be the correct setting of the conditions for electro-waste treatment, it concerns electro-waste. There are currently more than 200 permits for electrowaste processing. However, in line with valid Czech standards based on European standards, only 12 entities process electrowaste. This has three major implications. The first is that these 12 processors have higher costs associated with compliance with standards and related investments in the latest technologies. And the second factor is that other processors do not achieve the wrong processing of the required quality of material outputs, thus literally throwing away valuable raw materials through a window where they have to import expensively into the Czech Republic. I see the solution in the legal settings mandatory certification of all electric waste processors in accordance with valid ČSN standards. [[10.50 hours]] The second point is the availability of the consumer collection network. The Minister briefly recalled this in his opening speech, but according to the current legal regulation, each producer of electrical equipment must have a collection point by means of a collective system, in each municipality above 2,000 inhabitants. At this point, however, the new law gave way to the pressure of collective systems, which do not have sufficient collection networks and promote the creation of a recovery site for only every 10,000 inhabitants in each region. In practice, this means that the collective system is sufficient only to create a collection point in the largest cities of the region, so that it meets the condition of one collection point for 10,000 inhabitants, and nothing further forces it to create a collection network even in smaller municipalities. The solution to this point is to leave the current legal arrangements, which were adjusted to this form in 2014. The last point I would like to draw attention to is the establishment of uniform conditions for the operation of a collective system. The draft law addresses some aspects, but unfortunately not in the whole scope, and this may have a negative effect on the further development of feedback. The main problem with current legislation is that the law does not effectively allow the control of collective systems. This is reflected in a completely different approach to the fulfilment of the obligations of manufacturers by individual collective systems and has a significant impact on the costs of each system. Finally, as with the previous point, I would like to propose an extension of 20 days to discuss this point in the Houses of Committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-002-059.u7	I thank Mr Elfmark, who was the only one duly enrolled in the debate. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. Member Jan zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-002-059.u8	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I would like to express the opinion of the ODS. We will also support the release of this law to second reading. We think that this law is actually the subject of an agreement between those collective system operators, between the producers of those products covered by this law, so here I think there's going to be a simpler agreement than, maybe, the packaging or the previous law. What my colleague Elfmark said, I think it's something that deserves to be discussed. It was in 2014 that we proposed a refinement of the collection network, where I think the limit was even 2,000 inhabitants, which was supposed to ensure the place of collection, the return of end-of-life products in the field of electronics. I think it might be possible to make a deal here and support each other's proposals. So the ODS will support the procedure for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-002-059.u9	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník. I'm asking who's still checking in from the scene. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-002-059.u10	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to express my support for this proposal for the SPD. I was very pleased to hear from the rapporteur's mouth the concept of repairability. Correctability is one of the things that I think has recently been very crowded out by the consumer way of production and the consumption of all products, and yet in the environmental and environmental context it is a very important term. First of all, repairability and, secondly, if we are talking about end-of-life, then actually supporting the extension of the lifetime of these products, their repairability, should be a very consistent part of this law. We have here the possibility of repasing to extend some products and especially for electric products it is directly offering the way. We support this law until further reading and I will be very happy if the guarantee committee addresses this issue of product repairability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-002-059.u11	I thank Mr Pavel Jelínek for his speech and ask again if anyone is applying from the scene. If this is not the case, I am ending the debate and I am asking about the final words. The Minister is not interested in the final word, and the rapporteur is also not interested. I note that there was no proposal in the debate to return or reject the proposal and that we can address the proposal on the commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone else suggest a guarantee committee? It's not like that. I'm gonna do the debriefing because I've asked noisy co-workers to move the calls to the lobby. I'll wait a while. I'll check you out and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of applicants has settled, we will decide on the proposal that the 677 press guarantee committee be the Committee on the Environment. We are deciding on the number 183 vote that I have launched, and I am asking who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 183, of the 141 Members present for 141, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. This is my colleague Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-002-059.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to assign this bill to the Economic Committee, even to the two remaining prints, so that the whole package is discussed in the Economic Committee, because these are really things that are directly related to our country's economy, so please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-002-059.u13	Thank you. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-002-059.u14	Thank you for the floor. I'd follow up on a colleague. I would suggest the same thing, that it be ordered by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, so that it can go completely as a package, all the four laws.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-002-059.u15	Yes, as well as at the previous point. We will vote on the proposal for a commandment to the Committee on Economic and Public Administration and Regional Development. First, the Economic Committee. I've started voting number 184 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 184, 142 in favour of 139, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development in the vote number 185, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 185, 142 in favour of 134, against no one. This proposal was also adopted. There has yet to be a proposal in the debate to extend the deadline for discussion of 20 days. We will decide that in the vote number 186, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 186, from the present 143 for 96, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. I note that this proposal was further directed to the Committee on Economic and Public Administration and Regional Development, and the time limit for discussion is 80 days longer, i.e. 20 days longer. Thank you to the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabco, thank you to the rapporteur and finish with point 59. At the same time, I will hand over the proceedings to the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-002-059.u16	Good morning. Now we're going to go with point number
