ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-022-119.u1	119. Members of Jakub Michálek, Jaroslav Faltýnek, Jan Farský, Tomio Okamura and others for the issue of constitutional law amending constitutional law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended constitutional laws /German press 390/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 390/1. I prosit that Mr Černohorský refer the proposal to the appellants.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-022-119.u2	Thank you for the floor. The text in force in the Constitution of the Czech Republic regulates the incompatibility of functions in Article 21 and Article 22 of the Constitution. However, the current constitutional regulation does not preclude the concurrence of the duties of a Member and of a member of the Government. Different forms of incompatibility of the position of a Member and of a member of the Government can also be met to a large extent in countries with the so-called parliamentary system, such as Belgium, the Netherlands, Austria or our closest neighbour, Slovakia. In these countries, unlike the presidential systems, where there is absolute incompatibility and termination of the mandate, a special form of incompatibility is introduced, a so-called slippery mandate, when a member of temporary parliament becomes an alternate who takes office as a member of the government. The proposed legislation addresses the incompatibility of the duties of a Member and of a member of the Government by the institute of the so-called rolling mandate, when the mandate of a Member falls on his alternate who was running on the candidate list of the same political party or political movement in the same electoral region. The purpose of the prohibition to perform functions simultaneously is to implement the principle of division of power in a consistent manner and, at the same time, taking into account the time-consuming exercise of these functions, their cumulation may lead to the absence of a meeting of the chambers of Parliament and the exhaustion of the time of ministers taking part in meetings of the House unrelated to their department. Ministers could devote this time to the performance of their duties, in particular the management of their resort and representation of the interests of the Czech Republic abroad. As a result of the great utilization of ministers, who are also Members, their low participation in the vote of the Chamber of Deputies. For example, in the Czech Television survey, the average participation in the 2013-2017 Houses of vote was 54 percent for 14 ministers, with an average of about 77 percent for other Members. The reasons for the introduction of an institute of a moving mandate into the legal order of the Czech Republic are, first of all, the strengthening of the principle of the division of power and proper control of the government by the Chamber of Deputies, for example through the intercession under Rule 53 and the work in committees. A Member who is also a member of the government cannot logically control himself independently. This proposal can significantly increase the amount of government time for full-time work so that they do not have to spend the entire 80 days of the Chamber of Deputies from 250 working days a year in plenary sessions. Here they should only be useful in cases where their participation is necessary, in the event of an intervention, for example subsequently on request of the House or its bodies, in the submission of ministerial press, in negotiations on government trust, etc. The need for pairing would be significantly reduced and the capacity of a fragile government majority would be strengthened, for whose proposals the absence of ministers and MEPs at the same time is at risk of voting. Moreover, the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister would have better conditions for representing the interests of the Czech Republic abroad. As regards the reservations that have been raised that the introduction of a slippery mandate would weaken the relationship between the government and the House, then it should be said that in the Czech constitutional system this relationship is built on the trust of the House in the government. The political forces that have a majority in the House form a government with a majority in the House and maintain this majority for the term of their term of office, with the participation of ministers themselves in the vote or in negotiations outside their mandate having no effect on this relationship. The mechanisms of maintaining the coalition majority of the parties in the House are given political relations within individual political forces and the presence in the House does not have a significant influence on them. It is therefore possible to expect the maximum deterioration of the conditions for Members, for which it will be more difficult to catch the Minister directly in plenary and deal with informally selected problems. Thanks to the days released, however, the Minister will be able to arrange a standard meeting with this Member. Nor is the objection to reducing the participation of ministers in the House, which is already very low according to the vote. The purpose of our constitutional rules is not to be the self-interest of ministers in the House's meetings, but only to participate in matters of their competence and in other matters where the House expressly decides so. In practice, it will be much more realistic from ministers to consistently require them to participate in written and oral interventions, where participation is rather insufficient so far. Thank you for the opening word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-022-119.u3	Thank you. I would like the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Kateřina Valachová, to take the floor. And before he takes the floor, I'll read the apology. Mrs Hyťhová Hyťhová apologizes today from 18.20 pm to the end of the day for reasons of work and Mr Petr Vrána today from 18.20 pm to the end of the day for reasons of illness. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-022-119.u4	Mr President, my colleagues, my colleague, my dear government, as far as this Parliamentary bill is concerned, I will just add that the matter has already been dealt with by the Permanent Commission for the Constitution, which has largely supported the institute of a moving mandate and its involvement in our constitutional order. It is certainly important to say for me, as rapporteur, that we are still assuming some amendments to the relevant legislation, including the Rules of Procedure, so that we have full assurance as to what the introduction of a moving mandate will mean. And for the last time, as rapporteur, I will, of course, recommend that this draft amendment to the Constitution be discussed by the Permanent Commission on the Constitution and the Constitutional Legal Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-022-119.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate in which I have an MEP, Mr Stanislav Grospič. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-022-119.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Members of the Government, dear colleagues, allow me to briefly comment on the House's presentation to the press. He promises that the Constitution of the Czech Republic will be supplemented by an institute of a so-called slippery mandate, which would exclude the co-operation of a Member and a Member of the Government, that is to say, the Minister, which is not to be ruled out by the current constitutional regulation, and thus allows the simultaneous performance of both functions. According to the petitioners, the purpose of the ban is to ban simultaneous functions consistent implementation of the principle of division of power. I'd like to argue with that. As the reasons for the establishment of an institute of a so-called moving mandate, the petitioners, in addition to the aforementioned division of power, firstly, give due control of the government by the Chamber of Deputies, and secondly, a significant increase in the possibility of government members' time for work, for example full-time. The proposed proposal does not affect the senators, because such a step would require very broad changes in our country's electoral system to the Senate, and it would probably also require the introduction of, for example, an alternative institute, simply a more extensive modification of this system. [[18.50 hours]] I would like to point out that this proposal will have a slight impact on the state budget, which is estimated at 10-15 million, as is in the explanatory memorandum each year, and this is estimated by the entry of an alternate who should be entitled to all the elements of the Member, while the minister receives only one salary, which is higher, and thus results from the Act on salary No. 236/1995 Coll. as amended. I would like to say that the proposed design with its construction and its content does not, from my point of view, address the modification of the institute. a slippery mandate, but only and only extends an exhaustive list of the reasons for which the mandate of the Member is no longer valid, the retention of the Member's mandate in the form of an institute. a slippery mandate cannot be accepted in such a case. I know that two amendments are already in the system at the same time. Perhaps there are more to this moment. For these reasons, however, the proposed adjustment cannot be considered to be acceptable or to be part of the proposed adjustment and therefore the proposed adjustment on a rolling mandate should it be adopted in the form as presented, not actually by adjusting the rolling mandate, but only by adjusting the exhaustive list of further termination of the mandate. Nor can it be agreed with the view of the petitioners that the proposed regulation will have a slight impact on the government or state budget. The budget of the Chamber of Deputies is always built on about 200 Members, regardless of whether or not one of them will be a minister. I would therefore like to say in this context that it is possible, and I know that the petitioners have been inspired by an adjustment that is in the Slovak Republic and, in particular, in the Republic of Austria. In the Republic of Austria, this adjustment had a broad genesis. It was built on customs, and only then it became a very complex part of the rule of law of this country. The Slovak Republic, in turn, has pregnantly set out questions about the creation, termination of the mandate of the alternates, the assignment of them to other persons or the choice of who of the alternates will potentially replace this post. Our proposed printing design 390 is very laconical. It will, in its essence, bring a number of problems and will not solve what the petitioners mention before it. In this context, I would like to propose that this law be returned to the petitioners for revision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-022-119.u7	Thank you. I've noted the motion. I have no one else registered for the general debate - Mrs Němcová here. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-022-119.u8	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Allow only a few comments on the draft bill submitted. Firstly, I would like to say that those references to the countries in which the moving mandate is introduced, that is, those mentioned, the Netherlands, Austria, Slovakia, so two of them are a two-chamber parliament - the Netherlands, Austria, but they are elected to both chambers by a proportional electoral system and there are known substitutes in case of a sliding mandate automatically, who would join. Slovakia is a one-chamber parliament, where the proportional electoral system automatically creates replacements who can take the place. This seems to me that it does not arise in our country, so it is created only in the Chamber of Deputies and it does not arise in the Senate. To me, it seems like a lack of, faulty and misrepresentation from the petitioners in that we do not have to deal with what is happening in the Senate or any slippery mandate for a senator, because in the past, the senators were little represented in the government, so it is written in a literal way, and they are not at all in this government, so we don't have to deal with it. I think that this is, by definition, a flaw in the law, a big and essential one for which it should not in any way be adopted in this form, because no one knows what the future composition of the government will be. To say that one chamber in our two-chamber system has some advantages, and another will automatically have disadvantages, so if a member of the government comes from the Senate, it does not seem at all right to me, and from a constitutional point of view, I consider this to be inconvenient. The government has given a neutral opinion on this. This neutral position extends by a number of reservations, which I think must be substantially afterwards, so if the bill is passed on to further reading and reworked, it will basically have to be rewritten, because, as it is presented, it is not viable and cannot in any way function as something that would benefit constitutional order or at all the relationship between chambers in relation to the government, etc. The mention that the government is only accountable to the House and not to the Senate, and therefore there is no need to take such account of the Senate, does not seem relevant to me, because in the legislative process the government must, and it is desirable that it be present in the Senate, and therefore we should certainly continue to address this issue. So it seems to me that the proposal is very superficial, written quickly, inconsiderate. I am not making any proposal, so I will leave it to the Chamber of Deputies, as they will deal with it for further reading, but for myself I believe that, in this form, it simply cannot be accepted in any way, and we are looking at a 100% recast of the proposal, or an 85 percent recast of the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-022-119.u9	Thank you. I do not see anyone else registered for the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I will engage and we will vote on the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion, which has fallen here in the general debate. We'll wait a little longer... I'll repeat what we're going to vote on. We shall vote on the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the voting order number 305 153 Members and Members, for 31, against 94, abstained 28. The motion was denied. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? I don't see anyone, we'll vote. I've started the vote. Who, for the commandment of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, is a guarantee committee? Who's against it? In voting order number 306, 153 Members and Members, for 133, against 0, abstained from 20. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? Mr. Grospič. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-022-119.u10	I would ask for the commandment to the mandate and to the immune committee, because this is closely related to its issue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-022-119.u11	Yes. Mrs Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-022-119.u12	I demand the commandment of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-12-ps2017-040-10-022-119.u13	Is there another one, another one? I don't see anyone. We will vote on the commandment to the mandate and immunity committee. Who's in? I've started the vote. Who's against it? In the vote order number 307 152 Members and Members, for 135, abstained 17. The motion was accepted. And we will vote on the commandment of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 388, 153 Members and Members, for 136, against 1, abstained 16. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the mandate and immune committee as the next committee and the Permanent Commission for the Constitution. I'm done discussing this point. I'm interrupting the meeting until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning, when we'll continue to respond to written interpelations. Have a good evening.
