ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u1	1. Government bill on the regulation of the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures during the epidemic and on the amendment of Act No. 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance, as amended /German press 1048/ - shortened negotiations The proposal submitted will be presented by the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, who I give this floor to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce, on behalf of the government, House Press No. 1048, which is a draft law on the regulation of the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the epidemic. The bill was drafted by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and approved by the Government in order to respond to the current adverse situation associated with COVID-19 disease. As in the spring months of this year, it is now necessary to ensure that the parents of children who have been granted emergency measures for the epidemic of the closure of school or children's facilities or parts thereof do not remain without funding in the care of the minor children during the period of validity of these measures. As a solution to these situations, it is proposed to take advantage of the benefit of sickness insurance, so-called The treatment, which has already been proven during the Coronanavir epidemic in the spring months, came out of the special regulation of Act No. 133/2020 Coll., on the basis of which the infirmary was provided during the epidemic by the end of June 2020, and also from practical experience with the application of this Act. [[9.40 hours]] During the introduction of emergency measures in the epidemic, the applicable rules contained in the sickness insurance law will continue to be provided to sick workers, i.e. parents who care for children under 10 years of age, in the case of the closure of children's or school establishments or individual classes, or in the case where the child is ordered to be quarantined. Some other measures are proposed as special legislation during the COVID-19 epidemic until 30 June next year at the latest. It is proposed to provide an infirmary due to care for an unemployed child, even at the age of ten, which is dependent on the assistance of another person at least in stage I - light dependence - under the Social Services Act and cannot attend school. In addition, it is proposed to provide medical care for a person who is dependent on the assistance of another person at least in stage I - light dependence - under the Social Services Act, if the facilities intended for the care of those persons have been closed on the basis of emergency measures during the epidemic or if the person cannot visit the facilities due to quarantine regulation in direct connection with the disease COVID-19. There is no age limit for such persons as in children, as the need for care is based on their long-term adverse health condition. It is also proposed, as in the spring, to extend the maximum support period for the provision of the infirmary from nine or sixteen days to the entire closure of the child facility. At the same time, it is established that the extension of the support period is only possible for the period of validity of emergency measures for the epidemic, not later than 30 June 2021, i.e. until the end of school education in the school year 2020 to 2021. Another proposal is to provide the infirmary and staff active under the employment agreement and labour agreements if they are involved in sickness insurance. In the interests of simple implementation of the proposed measures, it is proposed to pay the sickbay for each month. Two people will be able to take turns in the care of the child, without limitation of the number of rotations. Furthermore, the period for which the infirmary is not provided shall be clearly determined. This is, for example, a post-employment period. It shall also be replaced by a confirmation of the school establishment's closure or closure of the part thereof by an honest declaration by the staff member stating the identification details of the child and the address of the closed school establishment. In the case of checks, the district social security authority or other sickness insurance authority shall have the possibility to verify the facts directly with the school establishment. As with employees, similar arrangements are proposed for members of the Security Corps, taking into account the specifics of the legislation contained in the Act on the Service of Security Corps Members. It is also proposed that the period of receipt of the infirmary under this Act be assessed for the purposes of pension insurance as a reason for assessing the insurance period and as an excluded period for determining the amount of the pension. In the second part of the proposal, permanent adjustments are proposed in the sickness insurance law in order to further simplify the requirements for the formal formalities of the application for sickness insurance benefits and other supporting documents for benefits. At present, the sickness insurance law allows only the paper form of the application for benefits and other necessary supporting documents. It is therefore proposed that employers send applications for the benefit of sickness insurance which they take over from their employees to the competent social security authority in an electronically qualified manner in the form of a copy of the application. The original of the application shall be kept by the employer for possible follow-up by the relevant district administration of social security. From the point of view of the speed and efficiency of processing, it is essential that the district social security authorities are able to carry out the procedure for the benefit of sickness insurance as soon as possible and do not have to wait for the document original application to be delivered. For electronic transmission, the procedures set out in the Health Insurance Act will apply and the competent sickness insurance authority may provide for further details, for example, to define that in a single data report there may be a maximum of one application with supporting documents, to specify the format of the Annex and, where appropriate, its size and so on. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room.]] The proposed measures concerning the infirmary will have an impact on the state budget in 2020 and 2021, which will, of course, be dependent on the impact of the pandemic. It is estimated that the additional expenditure of the state budget would amount to around 640 million in October if the draft law included claims on the infirmary back from 14 October 2020. In the other months of the extraordinary law, from November 2020 to June 2021, we do not expect the total closure of the first stage of schools, the expenditure under the extraordinary law would then amount to CZK 26.6 million per month, CZK 693 million in 2020 and CZK 160 million in 2021. The additional expenditure of the state budget would therefore amount to an estimated amount of CZK 853 million. The effectiveness of the law shall be determined in the section relating to the infirmary due to the urgency and necessity of the adoption of this legislation on the day of its publication. The other parts governing the electronic transmission of the application shall take effect on the first day of the calendar month following its publication. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u3	Thank you. Please note that the first reading of the bill does not take place in a short hearing. The Social Policy Committee, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the President's decision, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 1048/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Social Policy Committee dealt with this House on 19 October this year and adopted the 197th resolution of this committee, which I will now read to you. Resolution of the Social Policy Committee of the 60th meeting of 19 October 2020 on the Government Bill on adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the event of an epidemic and amending Act No. 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance, as amended, House Press 1048. After the opening words of Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Dana Roučková, Jana Pastuchová's report and after the debate of the Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to terminate its negotiations on this bill by 19.00 at the latest on 20 October 2020; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree with the Government's proposal for a law on adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures during the epidemic and amending Act No. 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance, as amended, House Press 1048; V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Committee of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u5	Thank you. I have called the Members to the Chamber because we will now decide whether we will have a general debate. Looks like we're getting a little crowded. We'll wait a little longer. [[Members are coming to the ballroom.]] We will vote on whether we will have a general debate. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 55, 97 Members signed up for 78, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. Mr. Kubíček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As with the obligation, I propose a shortening of the time for Members to speak in a general and detailed debate for five minutes and one speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u7	Thank you. I will vote on this proposal. Initiating vote. I'm asking who... Sorry. Ending the vote. I'm zeroing votes. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on a reduction of the deadline to five minutes in the general and detailed debate and a maximum of one speech. I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 57. Announced 80 Members, for 63, against 11. The motion was accepted. Allow me to open a general debate, and I have the first Mrs Šafránková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly speak for the SPD on the Government Bill on an extraordinary infirmary and briefly present the amendments I am proposing. We fully recognise the need in this difficult time to at least give certainty to any regular income to all parents who have to take care of their young children at home, regardless of whether they meet the conditions for standard medical care under the Health Insurance Act, which applies in quiet times. But we cannot close our eyes to the shortcomings and errors that the government's proposal contains. The aim and common denominator of all the amendments tabled by us is therefore the intention that this extraordinary infirmary should mean really effective assistance for all decent and working citizens affected by the effects of epidemiological and government measures. In the first amendment, we want all employees working on work agreements and carrying out work without restrictions to be entitled to this infirmary if they were employed at a time when the school closure measures are in force. It is not possible at this difficult time to allow a group of workers to remain here without income, albeit temporarily, just because they have to take care of their young children. In the second amendment, I propose that relatives of a child who do not live in a common household should also be entitled to this crisis infirmary in so far as they are at the same time members of staff in charge of sickness insurance. We are concerned that family members can take turns in the longer care of the child, which would help the single mother in particular. Furthermore, we are also concerned that members of the socially extremely important professions, especially health professionals, do not have to leave their jobs, which is now a matter of paramount and public interest. And the last, third amendment increases this emergency infirmary to 80 per cent of the daily assessment base compared to the 60 per cent proposed by the government. Our aim is to ensure that, in particular, low-income, but now even the middle-income groups of our working citizens do not fall into income poverty, given that for the second time this year their incomes will be significantly lower than their standard employment income. We see here a large and real risk of falling into debt and subsequently into execution traps in many of them. Originally, we also proposed to introduce an emergency infirmary for self-employed people, but fortunately, the government has implemented a special programme of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which we very much welcome. I beg your support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u9	Thank you. Thank you for keeping time. I will read two apologies - Dr. Roman Prymula, Minister of Health, apologizes today, 21. 10., from the morning meeting due to urgent work issues, and Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar apologizes today, 21. 10., from 9.30 p.m. to the end of the day due to urgent work obligations within the Ministry of Defence. Next in the order of the general debate will be Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to present the opinion of the Mayors and Independents Club. Sickbay welcome. I think it's a very important law. On the other hand, we must state that this could have been approved earlier with some advance approval. It is a lesson for the future and we could be prepared. We also welcome the fact that the MPO is preparing a proposal for the MIT, but there is some delay, which we are sorry about. Allow me to present the amendments. There are two, one concerning the percentage increase and the other concerns the extension of the circle of persons. The aim of the first amendment is to increase the real aid to workers who care for children and who are prevented from basically going to work and therefore have to stay home with their children because the schools were closed. These people, of course, find themselves in a very difficult economic situation due to the deteriorating economic situation. A large proportion of families with children depend on the dose of the infirmary, and a standard infirmary of 60 per cent of the reduced daily assessment base per calendar day is not sufficient in many cases to cover the basic life expenses of parents with children, especially for single parents and single parents, who can then, of course, reach the border, when they are able to provide themselves and their children with basic life needs. In addition, in the standard infirmary, as set up, the family loses about 40 per month of their income. Moreover, school closure may be repeated by the end of the school year, it may not only take until November 2nd. We therefore propose that the amount of the infirmary be set at 70 and 80 per cent of the daily assessment base, where the provided dose would be more closely related to the level of the net wage. I think that this proposal in two options, 70 and 80 per cent, is therefore up to the choice of how the Chamber of Deputies will decide, if necessary, when voting. The second amendment extends the range of persons who reach the allowance provided by the infirmary, including those caring for children older than 10 years of age, who attend the first grade of primary school, and those caring for children with special educational needs. It is important that this is extended to parents whose children are at first degree, not restricted by age of only 10 years. I think the definition is quite clear in our amendment. Of course, pupils with special educational needs, even though they are over 10 years old, will also require constant supervision and care of others in view of their limitations, so we suggest that parents of such pupils can stay home with their children at the time of school closure and receive a contribution from the infirmary, which would at least partially cover their most necessary expenditure on the basic needs of households. I must say that we have been basing this amendment on the incentives we have received from both parents and primary school or teacher directors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u11	I also thank you and ask Mrs Olga Richterová to speak with her contribution in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we propose two amendments for the pirát. The first concerns the age limit, if we would like to allow the parents of children under 12 years of age, or until 11 years of age, to complete their 12th birthday, to be in the infirmary. The second amendment concerns the gradual increase in the amount of the infirmary because we see it as more dangerous and as a greater impact on families when the infirmary lasts for a long time. We'd like to address this. I will gradually comment on these two proposals, first of all on the eleven years included. We want to allow parents to consider their differing degree of autonomy in these children, who are often very different in development. Some ten- and eleven-year-olds can be home alone all day long for distance lessons, but there are a number of kids this old who just can't handle it. So that parents can at least learn with them so that they can deal with the various border conditions and situations where it is no longer good when the child is alone at home. We would like to point out that the budgetary impact was clearly calculated by the MPSV in such a way that this increase in the infirmary by two years would mean CZK 25 million per day when schools were closed on a flat-rate basis - in the case of measures. And we want to stress that compared to all the amounts that we otherwise approve here, that's just not such a dizzying amount. It's a proposal that hasn't been introduced to the public anywhere. He didn't think his parents behaved. So we assume that the first parents to go with these older children to the official infirmary would be from tomorrow. And then the days that are claimed by November 2nd are only nine. That would mean CZK 225 million. I am telling you this in this particular way, so that you know that this amendment, even in the event of counting successive individual quarantines for specific classes and pupils, would, according to estimates, when this increase was estimated by the Ministry to be between CZK 75 million and CZK 140 million, mean an increase in the cost of the state by approximately CZK 350 million. Therefore, I would appeal very, very much to consideration. We think it's worth the stress reduction for the families. The second is a proposal for a gradual increase in the infirmary. It's simply a percentage set. By the 15th calendar day, 60 per cent of the daily basis would remain, but from 16th to 30th day, we would definitely want 70 per cent. And if the infirmary went on because the school closure would have been longer, we would have asked 80 per cent for carers from the 31st calendar day of the infirmary or care. The point is, we don't want to increase the threat to families of poverty. We do not want to burden the authorities with requests for extra immediate assistance. We want to take into account that families don't often have savings after the spring wave. So, to sum up, behind the pirát, we're presenting an increase in the limit age of the infirmary by the 12th year of age, or by two years, by the tenth and eleventh year. This increase would mean CZK 25 million a day when schools were closed. We believe that this is an amount that can be well justified in relation to families. The second amendment is a gradual increase in the infirmary so that the longer parents and children have to be at home, the higher their compensation, their pay compensation. Thank you for considering these two amendments and I believe that at least 11 years of age, including them, could pass. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u13	Thank you, too. I will ask President Marian Jurečka to take the floor in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u14	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have had many debates here at the infirmary during the first wave during March, April of this year, when we at the KDU-ČSL since the beginning, in fact it was sometimes 23 March, they made the first proposal when we said that the amount of 60 per cent of the assessment base was completely inadequate for many families. The situation is repeating itself now. And I would like, for example, for the future, for the government, and, in turn, Parliament, to adopt measures that are predictable for the future for these situations, because we do not know how another wave can go back in the future, or for a completely different reason that parents will have to stay home with their young children. The proposals that we put forward under the KDU-ČSL in terms of increasing the assessment base, which is now at 60 percent, are motivated by the truly desperate situation of many parents, especially single parents and single parents. When we look at the statistical data that several renowned companies are pointing out here, we see that low-income families have exhausted the reserves that they had, and which were very thin, during the first wave. In August of this year, after the first wave, 50 percent of them had no reserves at all. We are in a situation where more than 500 schools have been here since the beginning of September, which had to close at least one class and quarantine the children, and their parents had to stay with them in the infirmary. This situation for many of these parents is desperate because they do not have to be at home, often one of them does not have the opportunity to take advantage of babysitting grandparents. And losing 40 percent of their income is not a situation that they are able to cope with without, for example, many not falling into debt traps, needing to use dubious loans and having great complications associated with the loss of housing or roof over their heads. For the sake of clarity, at a net monthly salary of CZK 26,000, the nursing parent will receive CZK 14,000. He of the 26,000 pure will fall to 14,000, when he must be able to tighten the family's costs from this salary, if she is a single person, a single person. And there are often cases where it is very low-level maintenance for children after divorce, so it is a very difficult situation. I would not come up with these proposals if a good system was needed in the Czech Republic, or, say, a conveniently set-up system of emergency emergency assistance, as is needed abroad, in Germany. Because I am also aware of the warning signals from employers, especially from employers of health establishments, who are very concerned that at this time of personnel distress and that they do not have enough medical personnel, especially from nurses, they may lose some of these mothers again. But as a legislator, I can't look at the problem of having a narrow throat in the health system, the optics that I don't care about those other parents who aren't health professionals and who really have problems in not being able to provide for babysitting and who aren't able to do it in any other way, and they're going to fail in their income. I therefore propose several amendments to the KDU-ČSL for the KDU-ČSL club. I submit proposals to increase the assessment base from 60 per cent in three variants: 70 per cent, 75 per cent and 80 per cent. For a variant of 70 percent, which probably has the best chance of passing through, we still do two subvariants in terms of possible draw time. Then I will sign up for the proposals in a detailed debate. But I would call very much for us to really look not only at the optics of one part of the employee spectrum, but at the optics of parents who are in a difficult life situation. As I said in this example, their net household income has fallen dramatically. They're on their own. And how are they supposed to cope? How are they supposed to do that? That's the optics we should look at as legislators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u15	Thank you, too. I will ask Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková to take the floor in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u16	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, Members, I will certainly follow up on the words of my esteemed colleague, Mr Jurečka, that we must look at the proposal from the point of view of families with children, from the point of view of those who are actually very concerned. This point of view also meant the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Minister Maláčová, social democracy when preparing this proposal. Crisis infirmary as well as the novel of the long-term infirmary have been promoted for several months. It would be good if we approved it sometime in August, when the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs had it ready, the parents of small children would certainly be calmer at this point. But what we're discussing today is a coalition compromise, and I'm glad that this proposal is on our table at least now. I hope that it will be approved today in parameters that families, employers and the state can handle. I want to highlight those that are important in the proposal of the MPSV. It's been an infirmary longer than those standard nine days. It's a parent-to-parent option. Possibility of drawing this emergency infirmary and in insured contractors. Unlimited age limits in children with disabilities. I consider myself to be rational things that are certainly worth considering, amendments that talk about increasing the percentage of the daily assessment base. We've already mentioned that many families, if they could only do 60 percent, would get into trouble. I also want to support an amendment that anchors the possibility of an infirmary for a relative who is not living in the common household. Many families don't live together, Mommy - Daddy, but they can take care of each other's children. I am glad that the amendment here is that a parent who doesn't have a child can take care of it. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the proposed bill will be approved in parameters that will really help families with children, as has already been mentioned here, so employers can do it and the state can do it, i.e. the state budget. Thank you for supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u17	Thank you, too. I will ask Mrs Hana Aulická to take the floor in the general debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think my colleagues have said many things here before me. Anyway, I'm also going to say a few words to this bill as a KSČM MP. I have to say that we are evening behind the KSČM the very proposal of how he came, because we really did, virtually. Government, or we can say maybe even the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs itself - we have all learned from this spring and all the issues that have been very hard to accept just in the spring, all the other modifications, have already been incorporated into this government proposal. I think it's probably the debate now about what the amount of compensation is going to be, if 70, 75, 60, or 80 percent, or if we're going to move within that age, that is. either until the 12th birthday, or the 10th birthday will be left to it. I have spoken to many employers and employees in the last few days, and I must say that we are in a completely different situation than in the spring. I said that on the Social Policy Committee, too. Because often the arguments to increase 80 percent that we will leave employees at home, employers will not have employees, etc. - in many ways, I agree with that. But it was quite different in the spring. Schools were open and volunteered. It was said to send your children, or you don't have to. At that point, we got into trouble, that even those parents often didn't know whether the threat was that big or not, and they often stayed within the limit of June 30 with the children at home, and then, of course, there were other consequences. But now we're in a situation where it's said closed from when to when, but we all know that the uncertainty is huge and that no matter if even those schools, maybe the first stage will reopen and it will be possible to go to that elementary school, that those schools will not be closed any further, that is, there will be a disease and it will have to be closed further to the primary school. We all know how much uncertainty there is in societies themselves. And at this point, we're really getting into a situation where we can't imagine keeping 60 percent of the reduced daily base behind the KSČM because the uncertainty in that society is huge. We have a health committee today. We will certainly be presented not only with numbers and other analyses and increases not only of the sick or the infected, but of course the impacts on the health care. This also relates to the other modifications already declared by Minister Prymula, the closing of services or other trades. And these are the effects that concern our ordinary citizens, which they deal with every day, and especially whether they have the bills to pay, because we may be talking about fourteen days, but maybe we're also talking about fourteen days - week yes or months - and we just don't know what's going to happen next. This means that we will not act irresponsiblely behind the KSČM, and today we will vote in favour of the amendment tabled by the KDU to 70 percent of the reduced daily base. I think at this point, we are unable to offer our citizens anything more than just to help in some certainty, because it's the least we can do. I would perhaps like to touch on the amendment of my fellow pirát about the vending machine. We also considered so called. Automaton and setup. But it's because when we told each other the situations that we don't know if the families are always home, that is. they're going to follow up, or if it's really interrupted, that they're going to work for three weeks, two weeks at home, so the vending machine actually becomes senseless in that practice. That's why we're saying it's better to have the security up to 70 percent than to use the machine. I would just like to explain why we will be abstaining from the amendment. And I am quite frankly saying that the possibility, and precisely for those parents in integrated rescue systems and health care professionals, to whom this may be most relevant, is that there is also a well-written SPD amendment, where it gives the opportunity of the infirmary to other members of the family, who, of course, pay sick leave. [[The President draws attention to the time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u19	Thank you. I will ask Mr Roman Sklenák to take the floor and speak in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. So we're having a discussion here, if the optimal is 60 percent, 70 percent, 80 percent. I always say that it's good to look at the absolutes, too, because 60 percent of 15,000 is otherwise a significant amount to these people than 60 percent, maybe 30 thousand. From this point of view, I have put an amendment into the system, on which we have also agreed with my fellow Member, Mr Pastuchová. This amendment, which I will then apply to in a detailed debate, introduces a minimum amount of the sick person. Because for those low-income employees, that is. those who have a salary of less than 22,000 would be below the CZK 400 level, and we consider it actually minimal for the period when the employee drew the infirmary to secure the needs that he and his family urgently need. This means that this amendment introduces a minimum amount of CZK 400 per calendar day. And if the employee has a shorter period of time, he's quite short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u21	Thank you. No one else is entered into the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I will open a detailed debate. The rapporteur wants to apply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u22	I just wanted to respond to Mrs Aulická's speech and to Mrs Šafránková's amendment. Now as a paramedic, we urge everyone to be at home with their family. And now you're releasing the children's ability to babysit their grandmothers, grandfathers, uncles and aunts, and those children will be transported from home to home. And I don't think that's such a good idea.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u23	I am opening up a detailed debate. With priority rights, Mr. President Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u24	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, my colleagues. I have to run away on business for the next meeting. So I will only apply quickly to individual amendments under 6520, 6521, these are proposals which increase the basis of assessment to 70 per cent, but they are in two minor variants. And then the numbers 6538 and 6540, these are the amendments that concern the increase to 75 and 80 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u25	Thank you. Mrs Šafránková will speak in a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u26	Thank you. I would like to sign up for my amendments, which I have already justified in the general debate. They are under the number of House document 6418, then 6430 and 6431. Thank you, and I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u27	Thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová will speak in a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to sign up for two amendments, which I justified in a detailed debate. The first one extends the range of persons who reach the allowance provided by the infirmary, as well as those who take care of children over the age of ten, who attend the first grade of primary school. Second, those who take care of children with special educational needs that did not reach 14 years of age, i.e. 13-year-olds. This amendment is brought under House document 6536. The second amendment under House document 6535 is proposed in two options and concerns the level of the infirmary. The first option is to set it at 70 per cent, the second option at 80 per cent of the daily basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u29	Thank you. Mrs Olga Richterová will speak in a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, surprise! Instead of the two amendments that I described in the detailed debate, I will present a third one. And I really care about raising the age limit at least a little bit. So, for the pirát, I'm still submitting a completely compromise minimalist proposal for an increase to the 11th birthday, or one year, for ten-year-olds, that possibility. So that's where the costs go down in half. It would be 12.5 million a day at the total closure of all schools. This compromise proposal is number 6547, and I hereby submit to it. Then there is the proposal that I would like to pass, that is 6505, an amendment concerning an increase of 12 years, including 11-year-old children until their 12th birthday. Just a brief explanation: In a situation where we have a debate on billions and billions, I believe that dealing with the situation of families that are already under such great stress from the whole coronation crisis should be a priority. And last thing, Amendment 6523, that gradual increase. I understand what my colleagues said about counting the gradual increase. We think it's written so that it's clear. However, I am already aware that we strongly support the proposals for increasing the infirmary to 70 percent for the pirát. Because if nothing else passes in this House, 70 percent certainly makes sense as support for families. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u31	Thank you. Mrs Hana Aulická will speak in a detailed debate. Madam Hana Aulická! Mrs Hana Aulická in a detailed debate! [[A Member gestures from the point where he doesn't get out.]] He won't perform. And Mr Roman Sklenák in a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u32	Thank you. So, as I have announced, I am signing up for the amendment that is being conducted in the system under number 6533.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u33	Thank you and end the detailed debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. If it is not, I am interrupting this point at the end of the legislative emergency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-21-ps2017-062-02-002-001.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Madam Vice-President of the Government, I don't see anyone else in the government here, we will continue with the approved agenda. [[Schiller]] The next item in the legislative emergency is point number
