ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u1	1. Evaluation of the course of the first wave of the coronavirus in the territory of the Czech Republic and measures to prevent the second wave I ask that a representative of the appellants take the floor, who, if he agrees, will also become rapporteur. In the case of this point, the representative of the appellants shall be President Jakub Michálek. Please, Mr President, give this point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u2	Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, let me thank you for supporting the agenda for today's negotiations and for taking a step that is responsible, and for briefly assessing the situation. A lot of things have been said here, I don't think it's important to repeat them. I think it would be good to direct this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to approve some basic output, as has already been said here, to be processed for example. a report by the Government of the Czech Republic on the measures taken to prevent the second wave of pandemics so that we receive this information regularly and that the government focuses its attention on those areas which it identifies as really important from the discussion, which it should pay attention to. As for the basic evaluation, I think we can all agree here that the Czech Republic has mastered the pandemic, the first wave, relatively well. I'd also like to join the thanks that was made here. I think that the health professionals and citizens, as well as the government and the opposition, have contributed to this by their actions. In terms of international comparisons, of course, there are countries that are a little better off, and we can inspire ourselves with the measures they have put in place to achieve better results. For example, when we look at the number of deaths per million, countries like Latvia or Lithuania, or Slovakia, which has 5 dead per 1 million, are better off. The Czech Republic is holding on the 20th with the number of 30 dead per million inhabitants. [[1 inhabitants, to say]] So there's room for significant improvement if the following wave of a coronavirus pandemic comes. I'd like to start with the different circles I've been working on, which I'd like you to meet, and I'll be followed up by colleagues who have other specialized topics. And I would like to commend Mr Hamáček's government representative and the Minister of Health for describing the situation as it was, i.e. We were not prepared for it so that we had functional prevention and preparation mechanisms, for example, at the beginning. in the area of the Central Epidemiology Commission, when we received information from the Ministry of Health that the Central Epidemiology Commission met for the first time in February, February 27th, or a month after the matter was discussed here in the Chamber of Deputies, when the proposal was to include it on a agenda that was not approved. And the committee, if I'm not mistaken, met four times. Therefore, part of the first part would be to appeal to the Government to ensure regular activities of the Central epidemiological Commission, including close cooperation with international partners, and that the Government of the Czech Republic, through the Prime Minister, at regular intervals at least once every two months by 30 June 2021, inform the Chamber of Deputies about solutions associated with the potential arrival of another wave of the Coronavirus epidemic. So that is the first question that concerns informing citizens, informing the Chamber of Deputies. As far as the emergency situation and the legal issues are concerned, I've intersected the matter, and I've gradually managed to get all the answers. In some matters, we have managed together to make amends, e.g. in relation to the elections in Teplice as decided and actually confirmed our interpelations by the Supreme Administrative Court. However, it should be noted that during that period of the first wave's pandemic, we recorded four steps that were somewhat problematic. Proposal for a law on registering real owners, strengthening the powers of the government in relation to decision-making in some military situations, strengthening the Minister of Health and the problematic amendment to the Public Procurement Act, which this Chamber of Deputies refused to discuss. So I would like these situations to be considered in the future as to whether such proposals should be put forward. [[11.50 hours]] Unfortunately, what has not yet been resolved is the question of the Czech Republic's liability for the damage caused by measures to prevent the spread of the disease and to be covered under the crisis law. There I asked the government what were the reasons for changing the regime to the law on the protection of public health from the crisis law, if it had any opinions on this, and we would learn that these opinions are not, or that the government does not currently have legal analysis on the basis of which it would assess these issues. So I wanted to ask the government to consider really processing it, because it is the only way to face the claims that some people are likely to come up with, and there are tens of thousands of litigations that I think are to some extent unnecessary. As far as the Central Crisis Staff are concerned, we have already mentioned this question here. It would be good, and it would benefit us a few days to respond more quickly to the situation. And the thing that I think is very important and that the government has yet to respond adequately to is that a government plan should be drawn up to prevent the second wave and other situations related to coronavirus. We have seen a large number of partial measures, and it is clear that in the opening part of the crisis it was not possible to take action, but there should be a single line in this strategy, which the government would have captured and which would be binding on all ministries, and this plan, which would reduce the level of chaos in the measures, I think all citizens would appreciate. I will then follow up on this when I speak about the way in which the measures are presented so as to make it more understandable for citizens, and now I am just saying that we will propose a resolution by which the Chamber of Deputies will ask the government to ensure, of course, that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, an update of the pandemic plan of the Czech Republic by 30 September 2020 and, in the case of the second wave, it has followed. I understand that the pandemic plan was adopted some time ago and could not predict the exact circumstances, on the other hand, when we read it, I think that some of its parts are inspiring, for example, when it says that most experts agree that it is not a question of whether a viral disease like this will come with a worldwide impact, but that it is a question of when it comes. So I'm sure it's appropriate to have the mechanisms prepared, including the supply of protective equipment. When it comes to information and data provision, it is another circuit. That is where we met that Members did not receive information as they should be received by law. My colleague Petr Třešňák sent questions to the Ministry of Health. He received these answers after about ten urgent requests, including personal emergencies here at the Minister's office, with a delay of many days compared to the legal deadline. Of course, this makes it very difficult for us to express ourselves in a qualified way about politicians, and you know each and every one of our own experiences that journalists constantly ask about government positions, opposition positions, so that we can express ourselves in a qualified way. I do not think it would be in the interest of anyone to express ourselves without the knowledge of these important documents. When we look at the way in which epidemiological data are shared in some other countries, such as Switzerland or the United Kingdom or even in neighbouring Slovakia, we see that these governments are actively spreading relatively detailed statistics. I would like to appreciate that during the epidemic some information materials have developed on the Ministry of Health's website regarding the spread of the disease. At the same time, unfortunately, there was no sharing of information on the epidemiological model. We were given an answer to our written request. The answer was basically visual, it was at the level of presentations, it was not at the level that models were provided and somehow captured in numbers or in samples, or in some other form, so that they could be used for the scientific public. This means that there is not one single official interpreter or expert post for data interpretation, but for interpretation to evolve so that other experts can comment on it. Of course, there are also risks that people who do not understand will comment on this. However, this is a matter for the data to be presented correctly and reasonably and for the Ministry, or the competent institution, to establish cooperation with these scientific workplaces, so that it is clear to the public how it is actually done. This should not serve as an excuse to reduce research work on the preparation of new measures, because I think there is a great potential for Czech companies, Czech research and so on to come up with innovations that can be useful in the time of Coronavirus. So, in this respect, I think that the Chamber of Deputies, and I have also discussed this on the grémia, it has been said, we discussed this with President Vondráček, that there should really not be situations where the members of the Government do not comply with the rules of procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, although of course it was a time when we had an emergency situation, so I think that it is not the right procedure to fail to answer in thirty days that the opposition then has no information. And the last thing I'd like to talk about today is some chaos about what measures have been taken. I'm sorry, I have to go back for a piece of paper, but I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u3	I think that is possible, Mr President, and that you can continue now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for your indulgence, and for your colleagues. Again - we are trying to help the Ministry of Health to have the best master to inform the public in a clear way. This is not a negative criticism, we understand that the situation required an action solution, but we have looked at the way in which people took it in some other countries, where people are praised for information, while the surveys available to us show that it was precisely the confusion that caused people to feel uninformed, and in some cases it also led to the fact that the measures were not fully respected as required by their letter. So we've prepared a table that actually sums up what levels of pandemic alert might look like. That's how it looks. [[He's showing clearly.]] The first stage is the stage of preparation where the disease has already been suppressed or is not present. In New Zealand, for example, they did succeed in suppressing the plague. Of course, New Zealand has a little advantage of being an island. Level two is called mitigation - the disease is under control, there are isolated clumps of cases at risk of community transmission. At level three, there is a high risk of uncontrolled spread of the disease. And stage four is an emergency that has been declared by the government when the disease in the country is not under control at all. So it's basically a light that has four lights. I think it might be more understandable for people than that huge list of measures that are constantly updated. That's how they got it in New Zealand, where they managed to contain the disease. And for each stage they are defined when the degree is activated, then the government declares it, of course, what are the risks associated with the situation and what are the scope of the measures to be applied at that stage. Of course, it is possible to declare a different level locally, so then where the disease is currently spreading more, apart from the application of tracking, smart quarantine and so on, some higher level of pandemic alert can be activated. So we think that it should be included in the amendment to the Public Health Act, so that the government is empowered in this way to clearly define information for citizens, when and how they have limited options, where they can move, where they can spend their free time and the like, so that it is clear and graphically illustrated for everyone. [[12.00 hours]] In this context, we will therefore propose a resolution for the House of Deputies to call on the government to inform the public at regular and predetermined intervals, in a clear and factual and systemic way, of course, of all public groups concerned, because, of course, when we look at a group of seniors or people who are used to receiving information from television, it is again necessary to present it in a simple, understandable way so that one does not have to watch the whole press conference, but to have it in some simple form, as people read on the newspapers today, when they look at weather forecast and there are different levels of risk to prepare for it by people who may have health problems. The resolution would also include a request to the Government to order the Ministry of Health to develop a system of pandemic alert levels with clear steps and introduce it to the Chamber of Deputies by 30. 6. 2020. By that we think that this information could reach a much better level. Overall, we have put together 14 motions for resolutions by the Chamber of Deputies. Other proposals will be presented by colleagues. And I will now hand over our processed table to the Minister of Health so that he can use it as an inspiration, whether the Chamber of Deputies decides to adopt this resolution and invite the government to process it, or whether the Minister decides his own will would be an appropriate way to inform citizens in the future. Of course, this also has to do with the adequate establishment of legal instruments to implement it, that is, an emergency situation in terms of our constitutional order under the Czech Security Act, which would be associated with a level four. And then I think it would be appropriate, in fact, that the Government has already tabled an amendment to the Public Health Act, so that stricter forms of significant restrictions on citizens' rights and freedoms should be subject to some kind of control by the Chamber of Deputies, other than just to say or not to express confidence to the government on the basis of these steps. So I think there is also an open question of the possibility of declaring some state of pandemic emergency, which would be identified with a degree of three on that table, so that, in the case of pandemic emergency, the government has the possibility of action to address, for example, the risk of starting the second wave, so that it is action and clear. Thank you for your attention and during this meeting, if we manage to achieve this, which I think will not be able to get to all those who want to speak in the debate within the reserved time, so I assume that the meeting will be adjourned for next Thursday in the future, so I assume that by then there will be enough time for us all to get acquainted with the motions for resolutions, with the tables and possibly the Ministry then came up with some statement as to how it will proceed, and perhaps no resolution will be needed in this matter or any resolution. Thank you for your attention and I wish you the rest of the day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u5	I wish you a nice noon. Yes, I'm just gonna say it here, and I wasn't gonna say it until 13:00, that there's an agreement between the MPs, that if we didn't make it to the emergency meeting today by 1:00, which is an assumption, we'd continue on Thursday 4. 6 o'clock at 9 o'clock. Next week, there's a fixed legionnaire point at 11 o'clock, and after it's finished, it would eventually resume the emergency meeting. So that's the deal tonight. It's not appropriate to be so nervous that someone doesn't get to the floor because there's a deal to continue. I'll do this again at 13 o'clock so we can all hear it for sure. I am now launching a general debate in which seven Members have joined at this time. I will ask Mrs Olga Richterová to speak and Mr Lukáš Bartoň will prepare himself. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. Hello, everyone. I will follow up on what Jakub Michálek has already presented as important points for learning how to proceed with a greater return of the disease or local ones. I would now like to highlight two points that we would like to take the lessons from them. One point will involve testing, the other will be a clever quarantine. The point is, even for those levels of threat that have been presented, there is a need for good groundwork. And it is testing that is the tool to find out the real situation as accurately as possible. We're trying to be as constructive as possible again. We do not think it was possible to build sufficient testing capacities right at the start of lightning. But now, after many weeks, it is clear that an overall strategic test plan is needed. Test plan for a possible larger return, or also for local outbreaks. Let me give you an example of how the covid is now spreading in Karvina. In fact, in the mines of OKD, you probably all in this room know that the infection has spread and it's already over 300 infected in Karvinsk. But you may not know that there were actually the first two infected people publicly announced on April 30th. So what do we have today? Today is May 28th. So there was almost a month between 30 April and today, and those two people at the beginning are at least 300. That means it didn't work out what it was supposed to do. It didn't work to isolate the infected, detach all their contacts, and evaluate the risk of the workplace. The point is that we actually have a very active representative in Karvinsko since mid-March, and this Mrs. Klusová pointed out that the mines are the perfect place to spread the disease. However, it is a state enterprise and the state did not handle it terribly in its state enterprise. And why do I say that at the test point? Because just testing is something that can help people not to be quarantined too long, but at the same time to really be there by everyone who's supposed to be quarantined. But it wasn't enough time to run the field testing. And even after the miners were thoroughly tested in that one mine, it was forgotten that in the meantime other mines were already visited and that it is necessary to test the workplaces on a flat screen. And where am I going with this? There was clearly no plan to quickly concentrate the test capacities on this one focal point. So it will be the first thing that we ask the government to do because we want to prevent the whole city from being quarantined in the end, so that the government really focuses on a strategic approach to how to test in such fires, and for the future possibility of managing a possible large pandemic it is necessary to have a possible, gradually built capacity of 30,000 tests per day. We're nowhere near there. We're at 13 to 16,000. But that wouldn't be enough. So in terms of population in front of us in those test capacities, we also need Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia or Belgium or Denmark. On that point, we do not ask for the impossible. We're just asking for the readiness to go back to level four or three. So much for testing on the current example of what happens in OKD, and unfortunately not only in the Darkov mine, but also in other mines. [[12.10 hours]] The second thing is very much connected with the fact that it is simply the follow-up to testing that it is equally necessary to track, i.e. to track down those people who might have been infected. And again, there is a great appeal from this side to the government to complete the entire framework of smart quarantine, to act really preventively not only to reverse contact, where the eRoušek application can be very helpful - so I am just reminding you who doesn't have it installed, I recommend eRouška - but also as possible control for compliance with quarantine, or it is good to have a smart quarantine, which will also warn users of risk areas and generally facilitate the hygiene of people's choice for testing. As well as such an application could serve as a pass for Pendlers. This would be another clever approach so that the Pendlers are practically able to function and at the same time do not bring too much risk. The appeal to the government will be for the Ministry of Health to complete the concept of a clever quarantine and it has been introduced to us in the House by the end of June, as well as the need for a legal framework. It is missing in the area of clever quarantine. My colleague Petr Třešňák will be talking about this shortly. In summary, I was talking about testing, the need for an overall testing strategy for the whole country, for local outbreaks with a view to the future, I was talking about the functioning, the functionality of a clever quarantine, the OKD and Karvina mines, with the fact that, unfortunately, so far, the smart quarantine does not look very clever. And as the last thing I would like to say is that, in addition to these health coordination aspects, I would say aspects of management, we have, of course, social aspects, we have aspects of an epidemic that are existentially threatening to many people. I will discuss this in more detail at that point, two groups of people who have remained without government assistance, and I will just briefly remind them of what groups they are. In particular, it is about 150,000 people who have worked on labour agreements, work activities and insurance payments. The people who didn't pay insurance and worked on the agreements were still more than hundreds of thousands, but these, roughly 150,000 people contributed to the premiums. Likewise, there are another key aspect of the people in executions. And unfortunately, the execution will certainly not decline in the current crisis period. And third thing, so far, we've left out the support of those people who are businessmen, but they've had a little time. So the self-employed, whose dominant income was business, there was a significant slump, but they had any small time, so with the exception of teaching staff, pedagogical activities are now being left in the lurch again. So I'm just summing up which groups we think are really neglected, and we'd like to address them now, so that later the impacts aren't much deeper. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u7	Now, I have one point of fact here, so Ivo Vondrák will be speaking. Please, your two minutes, and Mr. Mr. Lukáš Bartoň will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u8	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. There's been a lot of noise. I think we need to get this right. You know, it's so easy the next day to say, you guys made a mistake that you didn't pull the number 1, 3, 7, 12, 25. And most of all, here are things that aren't true. It is not possible to start the field testing in the company based on the fact that there are two infected. We would do nothing but test all businesses across the board in the Czech Republic, and there is simply no capacity for this. So that's the first thing. The decision to make the field testing was made at the moment, and that was the week before last, when the two went up to 7, then 10, 12, 16 and then decided to test them across the board. I would like to say that more than 2,000 people have been tested in one week. I just want to say, show me where else in such a short time such quantities have been tested in the Czech Republic. There were six military teams, an ambulance organized it. Of course, I am not saying that the leadership of OKD failed, which was unable to provide the necessary distances, the separation of people who came to the test, I do not deny this, but what was done was truly exceptional. And one last thing. It said here that the smart quarantine didn't work. It worked! There are 4,600 tracking calls in the Moravian-Silesian region that track all contacts from the infected. If you look at Prague, which has the same population and the area is just a city, there are 2,200. So what I'd like to say is, if there's a smart quarantine anywhere, it's where it's supposed to be right now, and that's why all the contacts are being carefully tracked. We're watching it. And I'm not defending OKD here. I am not defending the OKD because I think it has made mistakes in its actions, they have not followed these things and, in my opinion, it needs to be corrected. And he's gonna have to make it right. Of course, the fact that mining didn't stop earlier is something that cannot be evaluated completely easily now. Here the principle of "after the war is every general" works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u9	Now I have two factual points here. So Mrs Olga Richterová will be the first to speak and Mr Marian Bojko will be the second to speak. Madam, you have two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u10	The point is, it's the only big focus, Karvina, it's kind of like a test rubbish stone we can handle. And when you run 2,000 tests there's a relatively co-ordinational challenge for the local hygiene and for the local crisis crew, it's obvious that if there were more outbreaks, it would be a really big mess. That's why I'm pointing it out. That's point one. Point two. Why are the mines so specific? There are people close together, actually air flows in such a way that the risk of infection is much higher. That's why. Because this workplace is so special and very risky in terms of the risk of transmission of the disease, since mid-March Mrs. Klusová, the pirate representative there, pointed out. She wrote not only on hygiene, she tried to communicate with the Prime Minister and with Minister Schillerová, because she, as the Ministry of Finance, actually has a state firm under her. And we've already described the result. So I'm really rejecting some accusations here about spreading the truth. I checked the data, and the thing is, when we tried to warn when the units were infected, we didn't take the type of precautions not to take miners from different mines together, from different workplaces by one bus for 40 people, or at least to separate the workplaces so they wouldn't visit. Or maybe the three-shift operation was canceled, which also helped the human contact department. So such possible measures to reduce contacts have not been introduced. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Time!]] Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u11	Now two factual points. Mr Marian Bojko and Mr Ivo Vondrák will be prepared. So, Mr. Ambassador, please, and you have two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would especially like to thank Mr. Governor Vondrák here from our region that the crisis crew is running perfectly, and I am glad that they are handling it. And Mrs. Richterová's colleague. As far as your colleague Mrs. Klusová is concerned, he is a man who absolutely does not understand mining. Every city council that gets rusty has to comment on whether it rained yesterday or today, so I'm pretty much having fun with them. And the shafts are so specific that you can't just close the shaft day after day, you can't. It can't even be done in a week because you need to vent, you need to pump. When they leave the workplace, they have to close the dams, and that takes days, sometimes weeks. So commenting on something you don't understand... I repeat once again, I thank Mr Vondrák and his team, the entire crisis crew, that they did it perfectly and that it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u13	So now the factual point, Mr Ivo Vondrák, is not yet another one, so Mr Lukáš Bartoň will be prepared. I already got another one. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u14	I'll just thank the pirát here for the advice. But I'm saying we can do it without them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u15	There. Mr Josef Hájek, Mr. Josef Hájek, will now make a point of fact, so that Mr. Lukáš Bartoň is still prepared. Please, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u16	Hello, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, there is a topic of OKD, miners, and of course it is a subject which I think, unlike the pirát here, I understand very well. I'll follow up on what fellow Bojko said here. The shaft isn't some office where I just turn off the lights, turn off the computer and go home. It is a living organism that has, for example, a hundred miles [100 km] of corridors. 100 kilometers of hallway. A lot of people here are comparing the shaft to the fact that it's some kind of subway. He gets in the subway once, he gets a ride and says, "You vida." That's the shaft. I saw the shaft. That shaft is completely different. There's water, there's methane, there's a lot of risks, a lot of dangers. And even if it doesn't work, it's got to be 100, 200 people who have to keep the mine safe. So please, Mrs. Klusová, the representative, is a man, that's a green, green person whose only goal is to shut down mining in OKD immediately. And, of course, the plot is coming. That means they're living up to the shafts. But the shafts must live with dignity, the shafts must live safely, so that we can still have ten thousand employees there today - so that these people will finish the mining profession with dignity and go into other professions, so that the region, not only the miners, but also the region, will go painlessly to the next stage, which, of course, is a necessity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u17	Now a factual point, Mrs Olga Richterová will respond. I don't have another factual one yet. Madam, please, your two minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u18	Very briefly. I think it's undignified for this House to go into personal attacks against someone who's not here. I really don't think that's possible. And the other thing. From this debate, there's a tapestry, and you can check that I have absolutely not talked about the kind of lock-up measures you've been talking about. I said measures relating to social distance, concerning the limitation of contact between shifts, between workplaces, measures related to the joint transport of 40 people on the bus, etc. That it was a measure of concrete, much milder and at the same time responsive to the specific mining environment, which is simply more appropriate to spread the infection. So much for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u19	Mr Lukáš Bartoň will now speak in the general debate and Mr Milan Brázdil will be prepared. All right, Congressman, you're almost there, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u20	Thank you. I would like to comment on the area of education. In fact, many of the reasons and the assessment of the situation have been written and online and are traceable on the website coronavirus.pirati.cz, so I will not repeat them here and I would rather shorten it to three essential parts. In fact, on 11 March schools were closed, teaching at primary, secondary and higher vocational schools was cancelled, as well as at universities. Distance learning has been started, although this teaching is not legal in primary schools, so we were not even ready for it. Which means we weren't even ready for on-line children's education. Teachers were simply thrown into an environment where suddenly they had to start caring, start searching for ways in which they would fulfill this distance teaching, and there was no methodological support. She couldn't even be, because it wasn't possible until then. If we actually learn from what happened, how will we be prepared for the second wave if there is distance teaching again and teachers will again be forced to teach distance in autumn? Here I would appeal to the government to prepare methodological guidelines and plans for schools to be able to switch to distance teaching in order to ensure technical equipment at all for schools and some students who do not have access to technology to be able to distance teaching, so that in autumn, when the Czech School Inspection in the case of the second wave, if it will, evaluate whether distance teaching is taking place so that there are not such alarming numbers as it has now evaluated when a hundred or over a hundred schools did not go into distance teaching at all and thousands of students did not attend distance teaching at all. For this reason, I will also propose, in a detailed debate, a motion for a resolution which will read as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to process and publish a comprehensive support plan for distance teaching in schools by 31 August 2020 so that this plan can be implemented from the beginning of the school year if there is a further reduction in school attendance." Another thing that happened, so we changed some laws here in a legislative emergency so that they could pass tests to suit the epidemiological situation, and at a time of crisis, I evaluate that the government, or the Ministry of Education, had a lot of approach to softening the rules, not requiring time limits, recommended not to evaluate, but only to formatively, not summarily, and tried very hard not to be the student who would be losing the situation, who would be disadvantaged. This has not been achieved in two cases and both concern uniform entrance examinations. Both of them have been mentioned here several times, and we have also drawn attention to them and tried to make amendments, including accompanying resolutions, which have not been passed here again, namely that students have not been given two dates for uniform entrance exams and have not been allowed to appeal, which would be in standard cases. These are two things that have definitely failed the Ministry of Education, and students are extremely attractive about the standard situation. So I would rather ask that the next time there are restrictions or there will be some changes, that students should not be on the level. On the contrary, in order to earn that something will be forgiven them, it will not be so hard with regard to health conditions, but that they are not the ones who lose the opportunities they have in standard situations. [[12.30 hours]] The third point, and thus the last point, is the return of children and pupils and students to schools. On 14 April, the government presented a plan for a gradual return that, if I were to evaluate positively, adequately responded to the current situation. It also took into account the adverse economic situation of some families, taking into account the limited possibility of training for some disadvantaged groups of children. However, the Ministry subsequently issued those methodological manuals, which I would no longer be so positive about. The Ministry did not provide sufficient support in coordinating preparations for the reopening of schools. Important information was given to schools and founders with delays. They often learned from press conferences before they could even read anything. So, of course, they tried to get on the website of the Ministry of Education, which fell at any time when the Minister had a press conference. There were completely no guidelines and recommendations to address risk situations, or they were too general and vague. It is often unclear whether the instructions in those manuals were binding or recommended. The goal that we want to achieve was not set here, but there was the instruction. So there have been these absurd situations where I would say a health goal - let the children go outside, but so that they do not associate with the population, so that they have as little contact as possible with the surrounding population. Well, the D.O.D. has instructed him to only move on school grounds. And now it's started to work out, well, next door, we have a forest where there's no one. Can these kids go or not? Because the order was clear: they should stay on the school property. So I don't find these measures good. There was no predictability of the decision of the Ministry of Education and the easing of the gradual entry of children into schools. We didn't really know what was gonna happen. Therefore, I would like the government to have some plans prepared for the future, scenarios that will take place on the basis of indicators of the development of the situation so that both school and parents can predict what is going to happen. I'm not saying it should be strict that it has to be fulfilled. Of course, the decision is always up to the government. But some predictableness - when the situation gets worse this way, this will follow - this should be here. I will therefore propose a second resolution, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies is asking the Government to prepare and publish by 31 August 2020 plans with scenarios on how schools will work in the event of possible further epidemiological threat, with prepared scenarios and proposed measures being duly justified and their implementation being established on the basis of epidemiological indicators, thereby allowing the founders, schools and the public to anticipate possible measures on the basis of developments in the epidemiological situation.' And in conclusion, I wish the government had left the ministry that is still here, and the ministries were beginning to communicate with each other. Because an example is treating a family member. Although it's for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, it's schools that parents ask how it's gonna be. And the Ministry of Education should give the schools instructions, even if it concerns another department, so that the information is actually solid in one place and it wasn't said: you have to ask that in another ministry, we don't have that in charge. At the same time, I'm sure I'll ask for that communication. After all, if there's something going on with the government, it can also go in writing to the schools instead of the schools learning about it from the press conference. But that's probably the government's communication. After all, in March, the Minister of Education learned that schools would close down from a press conference, which is sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u21	Now, I shall now read the series of apologies and prepare Mr Milan Brázdil. However, first, Mrs Jana Pastuchová apologises from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons, Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková apologises from 12.30 to the end for working reasons. Minister of Justice Marie Benešová apologizes until the end of the day for work reasons. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík apologizes from 11.45 until the end of the day for health reasons. And Mr Ivo Vondrák apologizes between 14.30 and 19.00 until the end of the day for working reasons. So now Mr. Milan Brázdil will be given the floor and Mr. Vít Kaňkovský will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I admit I'm a little nervous because for the first time, I'm going to perform here not for everyone, but for a large number of medical workers, rescue workers, just dispatchers. Not for everyone, but for many people who didn't just text me, they talked, but they were unionists. So I'm performing for someone who's been doing this job for almost 30 years, i.e. a rescue doctor, a paramedic, and who fell three times with a helicopter, who examined, as I said, three and a half thousand dead people, has saved a lot of people, and who now wants to describe to you how the situation on the front line is saying, how it looks, and to thank and evaluate what has happened. The integrated rescue system is, you know, the three main components - the police, the fire department, they're the files that run the state, they're state forces, they belong to the Ministry of the Interior, they've been organized and they've been well organized. Parallelly, there is the smallest, smallest component, but with the largest number of exits, it's called the medical rescue service. But it's not Czech, or, rather, it's not state, it's 14 times the original. Fourteen times established by 14 counties. How many times you don't recognize them from garbage men. These are people who are dressed differently. They've got all kinds of ambulance equipment. Not completely diametrically different, but different, different different approaches. Often it is, it is actually fourteen times the original according to who the founder is. Each region establishes it, therefore the director, nowadays they are not even doctors, they are engineers, economists and so on. And this file was distinguished. Imagine if she wasn't, she wasn't under the state, she wasn't under any ministry, so we made it. And they did great. And he can say here who wants what he wants about some distance and so on and how we're supposed to keep our distance and how everyone here is reasonable and understanding it. You know what? We did it. We had nothing in the beginning. And I want to thank them all for that. The rescue service behaved luxuriously and the hat down. It has measures, or what I want to evaluate, is thanks and, on the one hand, minor systemic correction. I think that in the future, if we came out of these experiences, it should be - I will not propose any measures - that the government consider not completing the transformation of ambulances to the extent that it would become a full integrated component, which would, of course, also have the benefits of central management, but also the benefits of social ones. So that the government doesn't have to replace those regions that weren't willing to give anything to paramedics so that the government doesn't have to do it by saying that - and for that I thank them so much, and that's what I really want to poke out. And that's, please, 7. 5. it has happened to the Health Committee that this government has decided to give a one-off reward, i.e. one-off, to health workers. And the price or the sum is big, that's a billion two hundred million crowns. And the minister got the job, he did it, he started it, then the finance secretary was supposed to find it from the items that are actually the government's budget reserve, of course that's where the money is. And look what happened. Finally, for the first time, historically, the government wants to say for the first time: paramedics, you guys are really cool, you guys did it, but it's the directors who aren't really doctors, and they say, "Is that supposed to be paramedics?" But I don't... Well, you know what, we have to do this differently. Plus, it would increase our money. Because we would, after they get 120,000 gross one-off, maybe they'll get more money, let's say, for the night service, for the holiday, and so on, and we don't have that money, or we don't want to give it to them. That's how cutting started, different pressures. [[12.40 hours]] I am so glad that the Minister has done it and that this is not and will not be at present, these 14 originals as they wanted to fight for it, and that the workers - health workers, doctors, paramedics, workers of urgent medicine, will clearly get it in one-off reward. That's my compliment. It's not a criticism. It's great what the government did. It hasn't happened yet. That's the point one. Thank you very much. And the second point is a recommendation, it's nothing else if the government doesn't think about completing the transformation anytime soon. So it wouldn't be 14 ambulances, so they could command them well and have de facto some benefits for being under one possible Ministry of the Interior. So I want to do it again - I could do it in engineering, but I wanted to be a little bit longer - I want to thank the paramedics, the government, but all the paramedics. I know you're still in the solution to who gets it, who doesn't get it. Paramedics are solved. They get 120 gross one-times from the Treasury Department. Don't worry, it won't go to THP workers or anywhere else. And I'm proud of you. I'm proud of myself. That I'm parallel to this here in the House, second term - I still go there on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays. Someone will say, on the list today, they're criticizing the professor that she's still in parallel. Well, guys, that's good because we have contact with the ground. We go there, we see it, we work -- yeah, it has to be narrowed down -- otherwise we'd lose our touch on the goal. One more time, then. You're number one!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u23	Now I've recorded one application for a de facto one here. So I call on Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková to prepare Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Madam, please have two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u24	Mr President, Madam Members, I would like to take this opportunity to add to what my honourable colleague, Mr Brázdil, has said. Thanks to the real paramedics who did the job perfectly. But I'd like to add another segment to the thank-you that we don't think of as paramedics, but they're part of it, and they're hygienists. The Regional Hygiene Stations have done a great deal of work from the start. They were the ones who informed who led the people who were able to trace the outbreak. And I think that in addition to the fact that protective equipment was secured very quickly, as probably nowhere else in the world, except that people sewed drapes at home, we did it with the Czech Red Cross, which also belongs to thanks, so the hygienists really have a lion's share in the fact that the pandemic did not spread so much. And we can talk here today about the fact that I have a drape in my hand and not at this moment on my face. Big thanks to everyone, big thanks to the citizens, that they were disciplined and they made it. I'm just asking that we continue to hold this discipline and prevent further complications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u25	I now call on Mr Vít Kaňkovský to speak and Mr Petr Třešňák will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u26	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. Let me also make a few comments on the first point of today's extraordinary meeting. If we are to talk about the first wave of coronavirus crisis in our country at this point, we can say in some respects that it is still early that we cannot assess all these aspects at this time. However, I must say that I am happy to say for myself that this has gone better than we thought in the first few moments and that we were afraid. And I'm sure it's due to all the citizens of this country, thanks for that in a number of respects to this country's government, and I think all the others that have been mentioned here today, and I will mention them too. I appreciate that the government responded quite quickly at the beginning of the crisis situation, when very serious images from Italy, from China, from some other countries, and that the speed and scope of the quarantine measures were set very quickly and I think they were also correct. I may not agree with some details, but I appreciate - I myself have found myself in some crisis situations in my life, and I must say that it is not easy if you encounter a situation in this country that no one has ever encountered to such extent. I'm gonna be a little bit more critical of those so many downgraded protective devices. The minister here was talking about how well it all worked out. Yes, in the last few weeks, the supply of protective equipment, I think, is running very well, but I am convinced that it was not quite ideal at the beginning. We know that there was a global shortage of these protective equipment throughout Europe, and it can be said that throughout the world. But by the end of January, Mr. Docent Svoboda here pointed out possible dangers. Then many of us drew attention to this in the second half of February and early March, and I think the readiness could have been a little better. We probably wouldn't have gotten much more, but we could have responded better in this regard. I would also mention that as for the supply, it wasn't always just about whether I had enough of the absolute number of protective equipment, but it was also about the distribution system. And if we're going to learn from something into the possible second wave - if it comes and of course we're afraid it can come - then we should realize that the double track that was here means that we had two ministries that were buying in parallel, distributed in parallel, and then, in cooperation with the county, it was just getting to the necessary ones, so this system of double rails turned out to be bad, inefficient, operational. And I would very much like to call on the government to prepare for those future times if there were either a second wave of covid pandemic or some other crisis situation to bring it together under one head. Because in such crisis situations, it can only work well when one head, one purchase, one distribution system, one channel is distributed and co-operated with the regions. I think that's one big lesson from that. And then some of the rumors fall out, if one of the ministry bought cheaper and the other expensive, if one of them distributed it better and so on. Then I will mention another, a little controversial matter, and this has already been discussed by my esteemed colleague Olga Richterová, and this is laboratory testing. We all know that from the experience of other states, especially those who handled the covid pandemic very well, there is a great emphasis on the system and the frequency of testing potentially infected. We have been talking very extensively here in recent weeks about the system of smart quarantine, and I must say that although the opposition MP, I welcome the system of clever quarantine, and I think it is a certain way to avoid turning off the economy in the future, we do not have to shut down this state as a whole. For this, however, we need a well-developed system of testing. And we have repeatedly pointed out, both here in plenary and at the Health Committee and also within the Central Crisis Staff, that this testing is within the capacities needed for this, and also within the distribution of the samples to those laboratories that work, that it was not well set up. And if there was a network of academic workplaces that gave it a lot of energy, a lot of money, and in the finals it had a capacity of 3.5 thousand samples tested a day, and they were getting several hundred samples out of the field, so I'm asking what's the trouble. [[12.50 hours]] Again, we repeatedly asked the Ministry of Health and other files to send the samples to these laboratories, because some hospitals and other files were unable to test, and yet they did not. So that's another lesson. We have a network of academic workplaces here, she's ready, and we need to make use of the next wave, this workplace, the workplaces, both technically and personally. Ms. Richterová was talking about a strategic testing plan. It's closely related to the principle of clever quarantine. The chairman of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka also spoke of this. We would very much like the Ministry of Health to inform us of the first few weeks of the operation of a clever quarantine. And this isn't about politics. This is about knowing objectively how it works, which of the mechanisms, which of the processes are already well-set and which are still in some way serious. So it's my call to the government: communicate with us, communicate with the public, explain how smart the quarantine works and what else its reserves are. The next item I would like to mention is the protection of the elderly. It sounded like we protected the seniors, that it was all great. Yes, I think it has managed to do very well in the end compared to some other states. Of all the studies available so far, we know that really senior categories in community communities, which are mainly senior homes, homes with special regimes, and so on, are the most threatened group. It is not only age, it is also due to the structure of their illness, a combination of a number of serious diseases and risky diseases. But here I have to say, I don't praise the government for doing it. It is primarily up to the providers of these services, their employees, who did not really have protective equipment in the first few weeks. And in this regard, the role of the regions has worked much better than the government. So if we're going to learn from something, it's about better communication between government and county, and we need to remember social services. And if it's been thanked here, I really want to thank the social services workers, who many have taken on the fate that they spent two or three weeks sleeping with their clients precisely so that this community doesn't get infected. That's what I think is a lesson for the next wave that can come. Minister Vojtěch here also spoke about how the health situation was managed. Yes, health care in the Czech Republic handled the coronavirus crisis very well. I'm sure the Ministry of Health is responsible for this, but I would also very much like to poke out the role of the regions that really had to deal with the lack of protective equipment at that first stage. And let's not kid ourselves, in a number of hospitals, we only worked because we put the masks at home, we carried them to the hospital, sterilized and used them. That means the situation wasn't that pink. And once again, I would like to thank the staff, the doctors, the nurses, but also the hospital management, because it was up to them, they had to move in that crisis situation. And it was mentioned here by my dear colleague Brázdil, really as the paramedics worked well, so the employees of hospitals worked well, but also the terrain. Again, we have a lesson for the next few years: it's about the protective devices, it's about communication between the government, the county and the individual health institutions. You can't forget the terrain either. In that first phase, the practitioners, dentists, outpatient specialists, didn't have the protective equipment. It got better later. I don't want to be recklessly critical, we all know that the aids at first weren't, that they weren't global, but if distribution got better, maybe it could have gotten to them a little sooner. Anyway, I'd like to thank the community of all the people on the front line, whether they're already mentioned paramedics, social services workers, police officers, firemen and paramedics in all kinds of professions, because it was up to them. The first wave was on them. I'm sure we could find a whole range of other professions, apologize to the ones I forgot about. But I don't just want to talk about what's already happened, because it's crucial what can happen in those subsequent months. That is what we would like to discuss with the government. We would like to ask how the government is prepared for the socio-economic impact, because we all know that the help that has so far been addressed from the government will not be enough. It will not be enough for all vulnerable groups of residents, but it will not be enough for all endangered companies, all endangered employers, and then employees. These are questions that we want to discuss with the government. We really want to know how ready we are on the medical side of the possible second wave, how we can improve the smart quarantine, but also other processes, because it won't be enough just for the smart quarantine. In what way will we replace tired workers in hygiene if we no longer involve the military? Who are we gonna refill it with? Who will eventually replace those capacities? And what are we going to do to stop turning off the economy as a whole in that possible second wave? These are all the questions I would like to hear in this debate. And then there's one more major problem, and that's the several times mentioned buying protective equipment. The government knows that in the current system of the Public Procurement Act, there is trouble, especially outside the emergency situation, to buy these aids operationally. I therefore call again on the Government to prepare a quick amendment to the Public Procurement Act to address this issue. Dear colleagues, thank you for your attention. I would like to ask the members of the Government to answer the following discussion, which will probably be in addition to the continuation of the meeting, the headings and questions mentioned by me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u27	Now I'm going to read one apology. Member Martin Jiránek apologizes between 14:30 and 18:00 due to the hearing. I will now ask for a speech from Mr. Petr Třešňák. I'm just pointing out that we have 12.56 hours, and I'm gonna have to - I'm gonna do it sensitively - interrupt you at 1:00. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to make it within the four minutes, and at worst, I would have gone one minute, which I think would be okay. Let me also begin by thanking all health care professionals, employees of social services, rescue workers, and actually everyone in the front line, although I had no intention of exhibating here today with thank yous, but my colleague Brázdil reminded me of the more acidic dimension, when the unnamed region gives its rescuers criminal notice, only for presenting uncomfortable opinions. I will also leave out the remarks made by Mr Hájek - you do not understand this, so do not comment - because I do not think such an invective really belongs here, and if so, then, through Mr President, apply it to all other Members in all discussions. Yes, I didn't work on the shaft either, I don't understand it, even though my father worked in the shaft for quite a long time. Otherwise, I wanted to start mostly on the debate about smart quarantine because I didn't want to enter it in the form of a factual comment. Mr Vondrák here spoke of accusing the inoperability of a clever quarantine, but that did not say so. On the contrary, only the appeal to be extended by other functions, which was actually heard by the Ministry. As early as March, we pointed out how technology can be used and how some Asian countries, for example, use it to suppress pandemics, even with the help of equipment that we each carry in our pockets. Some of our members not only participated in, for example, those teams at the development and start of the new CoroVent pulmonary ventilation, but also participated in the development of the eRoušek application, which the Ministry eventually took under its wings and subsequently confirmed that it would be part of the smart Quarantine 2.0. In general, smart quarantine aims to limit the spread of the disease between humans and the basis are various methods of tracing the infected contact in order to isolate those who could, but may, for example, become infected. The advantage is thus significantly less impact on normal life. The launch of this clever quarantine took quite a long time, but it turns out that it may be one of the fundamental pillars for the future fight against a possible second wave or a completely different pandemic. But that's only assuming that the smart quarantine is completed and functioning properly. Therefore, the appeal to work also preventively, i.e. not only to locate contacts, but also as a possible control of compliance with quarantine, possibly warning users against risk areas. And it can also make it easier for the health workers themselves. As I mentioned, the Ministry has promised something like this in the end, but the material under the name Smart Quarantine 2.0 and the description of functions actually resembles such a clever quarantine 1.5, although it may be a move forward, while neighbouring Slovakia has already launched an application last week that actually meets many of the requirements of the architecture. I can show her, but I don't think there's time for me to go into it in detail. [[13.00 hours]] In this context, I will mention another point that we have repeatedly pointed out, namely cooperation with other countries of the European Union, especially those neighbouring ones. If the crisis was to teach us anything else, it is definitely cooperation, not only within one nation, but also internationally. Unfortunately, this has not happened in many cases, and so each country has a little bit of a pat on its own turf. And, of course, when I talk about solutions that are, in principle, based on some way of tracking a citizen, we must not forget what we must never give up and from what we must not give up unless we want to wake up to a completely different continent with a different approach to human rights. Therefore, such solutions must fully respect the privacy of the citizen and protect his personal data from abuse. Why am I mentioning all this? - And I'm almost done. - Over the past two months, we have passed many laws in a legislative emergency in the context of the Coronavirus crisis, but perhaps not once have we dealt with these modern forms of measures and their support in legislation. In addition to the fact that we are submitting a resolution on this subject, which will probably still be read when there will be more time for that next time, I will repeat the appeal from Tuesday's Health Committee, so that the Ministry will include legislative support for smart quarantine, including its control and competence of individual institutions in the Public Health Act. Thank you, I've kept that minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-28-ps2017-050-01-001-001.u29	You see, I was alone with the pirát, so maybe you'll be nice to me sometime. So I'm going to interrupt today's meeting right now, but I'm going to give the information one more time. First of all, at 2:30 p.m., interpelations begin. And as for this extraordinary meeting, I'll just repeat that I'm interrupting it until Wednesday, June 4, 9:00 a.m., sorry, until Thursday, June 4, 9:00 a.m. Then, if this is not negotiated, at 11 o'clock, the legionnaire will be the point, and if he does make it, then an extraordinary meeting will continue. So I'm interrupting the lunch hour, have a good time, and I'll see you back here at 2:30.
