ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-002-100.u1	100. Government bill on measures for the transition of the Czech Republic to low-carbon energy and on the amendment of Act No. 165/2000 Sb., on supported sources of energy, as amended /house print 966/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, to whom I am giving the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-002-100.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we can also call the Act on the transition to low-carbon energy a nuclear law and it is a law that should, among other things, show the way in which we will continue to build a core or to prepare a new nuclear block in Dukovany. You are certainly following this key project, I dare say, not just a government project, but it is a key project of the Czech Republic, which has taken a big turn in the last year, because only in the last 13-14 months we have managed to create not only a timetable for building a new nuclear block No. 5 in Dukovany, but we have prepared a financing model, we have prepared an investor model, we have prepared a supply model, we have concluded key contracts with ČEZ between state and state. The Ministry of Industry and Trade, and ČEZ companies, and we have a new law that should be another stone in the mosaic of this challenging project. At the same time, we are starting to negotiate notification, or we are launching the notification process in the framework of first prenotification, then notification with the European Commission, which should be completed at the end of next year. CEZ started negotiations with potential suppliers in parallel or at this time. [[17.50 hours]] The bill is proposed by the Ministry of Industry and Trade and, in principle, it must address market failures in the case of the construction of new nuclear units identified by the European Commission itself. Rather, the market situation has deteriorated and, de facto, there are currently no market conditions for investments in any new sources of base load, or without emission sources, which are therefore not implemented without public aid, which guarantee the return on investment. The draft law therefore introduces the institute of the electricity purchase contract, so called. an off-take contract, between the state represented by the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the investor. Dukovany II is an authorised investor in this case. In view of the upcoming tender, the new source, and as I have already mentioned, the notification negotiations with the European Commission on the compatibility of aid with the internal market rules in the European Union are therefore more general in some aspects, leaving flexibility for future contractual settlement between the State and the investor, or ČEZ, respectively. Dukovany II. However, the purchasing price mechanism is based on the principle of the energy law, which we know well within the supported energy sources, where we base on economically justified costs and some reasonable profit in the same way as I have already said, as with renewable energy sources, and also includes control of overcompensation. The model of funding for the transition to low-carbon energy is based on the financing of the aid under the Act also on the promotion of renewable resources, through the so-called "Return Sources'. regulated component of electricity price, possibly state budget. Because, as we know, we spend about 47 billion on renewable energy sources. Crowns, 29 billion. Crowns, respectively. 27 billion. CZK is spent by the state through the budget, the rest is paid by consumers or consumers, i.e. natural persons or companies. However, and it is important to say this, we assume that, in the context of the rise in the price of power electricity, the financing of the buy-out contract should not be negative or significantly greater impact on consumers or on the state budget. To put it simply, we are based on the fact that, on the basis of the price of resources in particular, I mean not energy sources, but sources of money, the return will be calculated by Dukovany II, because it will play an absolutely dominant and key role in this. So the entry price of valuable investment, the price of resources, the reasonable profit, given whether this is to be calculated for twenty years, thirty years or forty years, will fall out of the purchase price, which will be realized by state organisations under the Ministry of Industry and Trade. We are currently moving somewhere between 50 and 60 euros per megawatt hour, but so far it is, of course, preliminary, because we are based on some indication of how much the new nuclear block could cost. And, of course, we are also based on the price of funding, and one of those who should be the source for this funding, or who would lend money, would be the state, up to 70 percent. 30 per cent will be deposited by investors, respectively. investor in this case. From this is calculated so-called. the average weighted cost of capital, so-called The WACC, and then the ransom price comes out. We're going to fix that price, which actually means we're going to know how the price is going to move forward. And then there are two options. Either the price will move, it will be higher. In that case, we mean in the market, in which case we'll make a profit, and that regulated electricity price could be slightly lower, obviously for this source, which is some 10 percent. Or it will be the other way around, which we don't expect, but we also have to work with this option, and then it would go to the expense of the state budget or the consumer. But given that these will be relatively small amounts - in this case even if the price were to move somewhere at EUR 20, 30, which, in our view, is very, very unrealistic, it will be an annual amount that will have to be paid in the order of CZK 150, 200, which, for that is the annual amount, is essentially under discernment in 2036. In other words, this model will guarantee a cheaper price for electricity - from this source of course, it is only always necessary to deliver. In a worse case, the cost of consumers in the order of tens or low hundreds per year, and it is an option which, as I have already said, is not expected. On the basis of the Government's resolution, Section 4 on the financing of the construction of a low-carbon electricity plant was also incorporated into the bill by providing the exact return financial assistance that I have just mentioned. This is a key law for the preparation of a whole new nuclear source and for ensuring the return of the entire project, for its financing. Without this law, its implementation would not be possible at the time. I wanted to thank all the members of the core committee for their very constructive negotiations. I think, after a long time, we have a big project here, a project on which there is basically agreement. I'm not saying we agree with all the political parties on everything. But the fact that we want to conquer the core, the fact that this core should stand in Dukovany, the fact that this core will have a performance of 1,200 megawatts, the fact that this core will have some time schedule, starting with what we're doing now, when we kick the ground in 2029, ends with about 2036 being done, so I think the report is good. I also thank you for the helpfulness of all political parties within our preliminary, gentlemen's agreement quotation marks that we should be able to handle this law by the end of the year. Finally, let me say that the core within the EU is in a situation not oppressed, as it sometimes seems, difficult in a situation. However, some countries are quite confident in promoting their nuclear resources. Approximately 11 countries are specifically pro-nuclear-oriented. [[18.00 hours]] I say this because at the moment you may have noticed that the relatively neutral Netherlands, the Netherlands, which has been looking for a long time so that it will not continue to build the core, virtually. it will dampen it, in our opinion it came through the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Economy with a revolutionary message, last week when it said it was ready to build ten new nuclear blocks. The reasoning is simple, clear and clear: we are unable - I quote what the Holanďan people have said - to achieve the European Commission's climate objectives. I think that this too is a confirmation that our path of core building makes sense and that it is a road that is essential if we want to maintain energy self-sufficiency in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-002-100.u3	Thank you. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Petr Dolínek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-002-100.u4	Mr President, Mr Vice Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a pleasant evening. Although we do not get to the point until 6:00 p.m., I think that this is a very crucial point for meeting not only today or this month's meeting, but for the entire session of Parliament for four years. We are talking about a very strategic investment which will clearly determine the direction of finance of the largest semi-state or partly state-owned firm in the Czech Republic and at the same time determine the future of energy self-sufficiency, as the Vice Prime Minister said, in the coming years in the Czech Republic. We need to realise that we have had a number of energy laws in Parliament over the last few months. This law came last from the Vice Prime Minister, and the fact that we are discussing it first shows precisely the importance of not actually untangling it, whether we want to or do not want to support the construction of nuclear resources by law, so without it, we are not even able to identify the other segments in the field of state energy policy. It should be noted that this law builds on the policy of the state that Prime Minister Sobotka has already designated, which has subsequently been confirmed by the current cabinet, and thus shows that this is not only the result of several months of negotiations, but it is a few months that have prepared the law on the basis of political agreements in recent years across the political spectrum. Before I speak further, I would like to thank the opposition here that, in this case, as the Vice Prime Minister has finished, I would have begun, it would have really been a factor in all important steps and helped us to talk here today in a factual way about where to go, how to go and under what conditions to direct investment in energy so that we can be self-sufficient. It is important to note that the draft law, which is extremely important, as I mentioned, for the whole energy sector in the Czech Republic, is crucial for several reasons, either because of the ambitious intentions of the European Union, which are aimed at carbon neutrality, or because of domestic plans for the gradual cessation of coal mining, the control of coal power plants and, in principle, as much as possible the conformity of electricity production with social demand, which is a demand that is aimed at least harming the environment and, at the same time, maintaining the availability, price availability of electricity on the market, not only for entrepreneurs, but also for end customers. It is a fact that Czech energy is basically export today. This has been said here, and I would like to reiterate that, according to all forecasts, we are exportable by 2025, then we will see, we will be neutral and from 2030 the Czech Republic will be in a role where we have never been used to in the last 30 years, and that is the role that we should pay for obtaining electricity for the Czech Republic. It's a very disadvantage for us. We must realise that the Czech Republic is one of the countries that are pro-production. We are not just standing on services, we are really standing on production, which is why it is important that Czech companies can afford to be competitive. And competitiveness is also based on the availability of electricity and also on its availability, not only on existence and availability. If the EU really manages to bridge the decision to accelerate the transition to low-carbon energy, our country will become an electricity importer even faster and will have even worse consequences for us. I would just like to remind you what we are talking about here, that in this context it would be good to say how actually Prime Minister Sobotka and then Prime Minister Babiš - which is why I constantly mention both of them, because this is really the result of many years of work - were able to prepare the timetable, and Prime Minister Babiš presented it quite clearly last November. He put in the target terms, which are controllable and are clear. In 2021, there may be a territorial decision. I would also refer to yesterday's debate, where fellow Member Birke and others talked about speeding up infrastructure and construction, where it has just been criticised that these resources are there, and it is right that they are there so that 2021 can be met. The construction tender should take place in 2021, by the end of 2022 a contractor should be selected, construction should start in 2029, and if everything succeeds - and I think that by working early and preparing the law, and not in other countries where it was not so well prepared - investment should be completed in 2036. It is a big challenge, and I guess - we don't have to talk about it today - we're going to talk about examples from abroad in the next few days, where unfortunately everything hasn't been achieved. But what the government is doing right now shows how to reach deadlines so that they are manageable, so that they are credible and at the same time that the construction is not expensive. The gradualness of individual steps is absolutely logical. But there is one significant item missing from this list. That list just lacks the law we're talking about today. Therefore, I would like to ask that we really hear the words of the Vice Prime Minister and that we can approve the law by the end of this year so that the Senate can discuss it, and actually the first item for 2020, the approval of the law, to include the key first point, and then the four others that I have mentioned. I'll make some more arguments about why we should talk about this. I do not want to appoint colleagues from the opposition, but I know that some mention that there is constant notification in the European Union, whether we should wait for the notification to be before the law, if we do not happen to have at all - I mean, it is a necessary law (?) - the arguments are very clear. First, only legislation that has been effective since the beginning of 2021 sets up a legally economic environment for a given year and can only respond to important legislative changes in advance at corporate level. This means, of course, every investor who goes into such a big deal in billions, in hundreds of billions, needs to have a certain legal environment. It must also be said that the government's pre-notification phase of the necessary approval of public support for the construction of a new nuclear source by the European Commission can only continue as a matter of relevance. I would also like to point out, I do not know if the Vice Prime Minister stressed this enough, that the law already contains the results of the pre-consultation, so there really were pre-consultations, on what basis, possibly, the parameters of how public support will take place and so on. This means that it is not work on the green meadow, it is the result of the months of negotiations, where we already know that we are in the constraints that the European Commission should accept. And that's very important. It is also important to know that the financial plans and budget plans of potential operators are set for calendar years, and therefore, of course, the sooner the potential investor can count on it, the sooner he can prepare his financial plans, the short-term, medium-term and long-term. And the investment is really long-term. We also have to say that the potential operator of the new nuclear source must immediately include financing the expenditure of the preparations for construction or ordering a new nuclear source in its financial plan. And again, if someone approves a financial plan without Dukovan, it's nonsense. We need all those who count on it, the relevant players, to count on 2021 in their budgets. The potential operator will also see this, respectively. the investor and the operator that the government's timetable, as the Vice Prime Minister helped set it up on the basis of a government resolution from the past and on the basis of the government's strategic plans, is respected. We need to be a partner that is relevant to everyone, and that will show once again that we are really trying to keep what the government has taken. And the last thing is that such spending is to be credible, acceptable, and acceptable by users, voters, those who then consume the result. And once again, the adoption of the law will allow that playground to be clear, readable and transparent. [[18.10 hours]] We can talk about the details given in the law, but I would like to stress that we have a first reading today. That's why I think it's time to say yes, we'll go in that direction, yes, we'll adopt a clear standard that will clearly set the field. I would also like to stress that we will adopt a standard which will not tell any future candidate in the tender how much the investor is willing to build. The worst thing would be - and again, I predict a debate that could take place and unfortunately is also going on next to the law, if we don't have calculation formulas for how to determine what the purchase price will be. We say, and the government, clearly not. It is necessary to make it clear that this law does not tell anyone how much to value the construction, but it is to say in what environment, and the price of the construction is really to depend on the competitive dialogue, virtually. a tender that makes the state. I say that the main reasons why the draft law on the Czech Republic's transition to low-carbon energy needs to be adopted relatively quickly are given. It's a good thing the House was able to respond. I want to thank all the club presidents again for speeding up their work. Whoever moves quickly, acts twice. And I would say here that I would like to propose that the time limits be reduced to 30 days. However, I am aware, as I said at the beginning of my rapporteur's speech, that this is one of the core standards. I therefore expect either to confirm my proposal for 30 days in the next few minutes, which I would possibly make, or possibly be relativized. Finally, I would like to thank the President of the Economic Committee, who has prepared a scenario on how to discuss this standard quickly, but I expect him to enter into a debate and, if necessary, to say whether what I have outlined would be possible at all within the technical possibilities of the Chamber of Deputies, which is now acting in a difficult regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-002-100.u5	Thank you. I open a general debate in which Members Patrik Třešňák, Jaroslav Holík and Jan Lipavský are enrolled. I ask Mr Petr Třešňák to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-002-100.u6	Have a nice evening. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I wanted to speak very briefly at first reading, so I will try to do so, even if the extensive introduction, in particular, by Mr Dolínek, was so comprehensive. Perhaps few in this House doubt the possibilities and enormous potential of nuclear energy in the decarbonisation of the Czech economy, even thanks to the local technical know-how, in natural conditions and other aspects, thanks to which the core should have a place in the Czech Republic's energy mix. And even though the government has shown some effort to further development, as I mentioned during the approval of the programme, such a parallel legislative standard, because the Act on Supported Resources is already here, and even its amendment is also here at first reading on the agenda, not included, and I appreciate, as my colleague Dolínek mentioned, the opposition's participation in the standing committee on the construction of new nuclear resources, but there are still many questions and comments that we, as some opposition representatives, have presented in this committee at its very meeting, especially in concerns about whether the proposed concept by the government is not too complicated and does not bring additional unnecessary risks to the project. Let me recap quickly. I will start with this historical genesis, because in 2014 the tender was abolished for two blocks in the Temelín locality and one of the reasons stated mainly in the media was the financing and absence of state guarantees. And the proposed law was supposed to be one of the tools to address funding and some form of public support for the project, not this time already in the Temelín locality, but in the Dukovany locality. The question is why public support. If we are talking about the large nuclear blocks in this context, that is to say over 1000 megawatts, their construction is both highly organized and economically demanding, and the real return ranges from 16 to 20 years. This is from the point of view of many economists looking for immediate return and quick money outside their standard thinking about the benefits of such projects. Although I recognise that many comments from such economists are quite valid, the price of money itself in such a long time of construction is certainly not a negligible factor, but perhaps the most important thing that we are talking about in terms of public support is the price for two things, namely decarbonisation, i.e. meeting the CO2 emission reduction targets and the cost of energy security of the state. In fact, many discussions over the topic of energy often turn from core to natural gas. Now I'm deliberately going to back up the renewables, since we didn't include the Supported Resources Act on the program. Of course, the construction of the steam-gas power plant takes a fraction of the time and costs a fraction of the investment costs. However, the two fundamental objectives remain unchanged. It's still an emission source, and it still needs a continuous fuel supply. And it is at that fuel base that we can then have the debate, I recognise, partly philosophically, over the meaning of the term energy security itself. And now I mean it in the general sense, not just the core, that is, whether the state actually wants to ensure energy security and fulfil the energy concept, which in the finals is a bit of an investor's role, or whether it doesn't even want to address the source structure in the network and leave the energy purely to private entities. And that actually has its other subvariants. This means supporting financially those clean producers, as has been happening for about 15 years with renewable sources, and there are a lot of controversy and criticisms about it, or whether to really leave the whole energy instead of subsidies fully to the market and only penalize polluters. Otherwise, coal power plants such as coal would continue to grow here. in neighbouring Poland or also in Germany. This may sound a little beyond what we are talking about and how it is now set up throughout the European Union, but it is as logical and simple as possible. Moreover, we have had the half-market tool for such a turnover of the entire energy concept for a long time and it is the emission permit and the EU ETS market. And how do we treat him? We are undermining it, inventing other compensatory mechanisms and other subsidies, and especially where the EU ETS system has a negative impact on the economy and on citizens. And that's really understandable on the one hand, but it's also completely unconventional. As a result, in this over-regulated environment, we have x grant and compensation mechanisms and we are actually getting into a very interesting and complex spiral. Therefore, let us really think about whether the construction of a nuclear power plant should therefore also be a fundamental strategic issue for the Czech Republic, and therefore we must treat this with greater care. That is why I have a question about the Minister why we are inventing a new Czech complicated, if not thorny way, when this could be based on the ground plan of the Act on supported sources of energy, or - and now it is a bit of a few levels - or it could actually have been according to the pirate proposal in a 100% state firm, e.g. by buying the existing company Dukovany II or by a really simple model, so-called. contract for difference. Although I know that the proposed law is partly inspired by it, it goes a little beyond that and is unnecessarily complex. And why am I mentioning all this? Last week, the European Court of Justice ruled that such a form of aid is admissible and is within the competence of the Member States. It was a judgment that Austria sued the Great Britain to support Hinkley Point C. For this reason, too, this precedent can be taken into account and the British model can be copied into a dot, because we already know, thanks to this very judgment, that it is without further risks and possible complications even in the case of the European Commission's notification process. A colleague named Dolínek mentioned that the law might not be necessary, that it would certainly sound from the opposition. Yes, in the event of that contract for difference, the law wouldn't necessarily be. And perhaps another question for Minister Havlíček, because it was also heard from Mr Dolínek's mouth, how or at what stage are negotiations with the European Commission now in the framework of the prenotification process, because this is quite important information, which is not actually mentioned in the explanatory statement to the law. Otherwise, of course, there are many other questions as to how the tender, although I am already going beyond that law, remains open to all suppliers, but taking into account those fundamental strategic security issues, i.e. whether the company will not be chosen from a country where it is common to use the link between business and politics to various power pressures. [[18.20 hours]] Other question marks are, for example, above the specified level of power. So whether this is technically justified enough, the 1,200 MW, which is actually handicaping, if not even excluding some suppliers from the tender. Or if I remove myself from the competition itself back to the proposed law, which limits the performance even at the bottom, i.e. at the limit of 100 MW, which implies the question of whether the government does not, therefore, count on the need to address other sources in the future, such as small modular reactors and so on. Of course, this would also be related to the question of how the government wants to support research into small modular reactors. I could still talk about it for a long minute, but I'm really gonna cut it short and leave it to my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-002-100.u7	Thank you. With priority rights, President Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-002-100.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak as chairman of the Economic Committee, which will be the guarantee committee for this law, and also as a member of the Permanent Government Committee on Nuclear Energy. I think both my colleagues, both the Vice Prime Minister and the rapporteur, have already described the energy situation of the Czech Republic. I'm just gonna repeat about three sentences. It doesn't look optimistic in the future. Today we are pure exporters, in the future, even if we build these two blocks, we will be energy importers, so of course we will pay for it. And we're still thinking about shutting down some coal power plants. The energy from coal in our country is 50 percent of the energy mix, and of course this new nuclear plant that we are going to build will replace those that end their lifespan with their time. That means we're probably not going to increase it by building these new nuclear facilities. I therefore stress how important these new nuclear installations are for the Czech Republic. If we're talking about gas power plants that some people think could replace, for example, new nuclear sources or anything else, I mean, their carbon footprint is almost the same as that of coal power plants. That means we're not going to be able to help each other out with our environment. As far as this law is concerned, I myself believe that we should approve this law as soon as possible. I support new nuclear sources. It is extremely important for our energy mix, our economy, our economy. And I just want to say that under this law, the notification process with the European Union will begin. And we need to get this notification process started as soon as possible, even though I'm very skeptical of him. Very skeptical because I know how the notification process took place at the Hungarian nuclear power plant Paks. This European Union permit lasted more than three years, and it was the Maďar who had this nuclear power plant in their accession contract when they joined the European Union. Of course, we didn't have anything like new nuclear resources there, so I'm afraid there won't be any power, or there won't be any sense of anyone giving us permission. But we'll see. For this reason, we need this notification process to start as soon as possible, because it will be very long. I acknowledge what the rapporteur, Mr Dolínek, has said that he would like to shorten the deadline between the hearing, between first and second reading, to 30 days. We would probably discuss this on the Economic Committee, if we finish this, next Wednesday at 13:00. And I am asking the rapporteur, through the President, to reduce the deadline to 30 days in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-002-100.u9	Thank you. I have three Members enrolled in the general debate. Please note that at 6:30 p.m., we will interrupt this point and discuss a fixed point. Mr Vojtěch Pikal has yet to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-002-100.u10	I just noticed the deadline. We've already called for Wednesday next week... Of course, we don't know how long this extraordinary proper meeting will last. So... [[Voices from the diaper that lunch is at 1:00 p.m.]] There's lunch at 1:00. Well, we'll see. I'm just warning you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-002-100.u11	Member Jaroslav Holík. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-002-100.u12	Mr President, honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I had some speeches prepared here, but I must say that both the rapporteur and Mr Fiala took the wind a little bit from my sails. But I don't think it's a bad thing, because even if I repeat something, I don't think I'm gonna mess anything up. Ladies and gentlemen, we all want to live more comfortably. And in order to live comfortably, we need electricity. But how are we to cover the increased needs of the population when the Czech Republic does not have enough ecological natural resources? May I? [[He asks the President whether he can speak because the time is near to discussing another point.]] Thanks. The potential of our rivers is very weak, with a maximum of three percent. And if we wanted to use wind power or solar power, we'd get ten, maybe 15 percent tops. And renewables are bound to the fact that we usually get that energy when we don't really need it that much. And our storage facilities, which are the Long Stretch and Dukovany water tanks, are currently absolutely inadequate. So what do we have left? We have an atom left, we have biomass, gas, and coal. According to the European Commission Regulation by 2021, all major sources of electricity will have to meet terrible emission limits for mercury, dust, sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and so on. In the future, the Czech Republic will have to close down most of the coal power plants. When that happens, electricity exports will drop to zero and we will import the electricity. As my colleague Fiala has already said here, the combustion of biomass and gas also creates greenhouse gases. So what do we have left? We have an atom left. Our two Temelín and Dukovany power plants are currently producing more than one third of electricity. It should be half by 2040. I repeat again - it should be. But for this target, we have to build new blocks, because in Dukovany, we're running out of one and two. There's a project for building a fifth block to replace these two blocks, maybe there's some extra energy. But I said date 2035. Today we are in 2020 - and the good preparation of the project is about 20 years. So we're already doing some homework here five minutes past 12:00. I would probably also return to Temelín, where projects were prepared for completion, but these plans for the completion of Temelín failed due to unclear guarantees. So if they have new blocks in 15, 20 years tops, we have to do it as soon as possible. Examples of some European countries, such as Holland, show that the road to nuclear energy is real. I know, a number of environmentalists are defending the construction of nuclear energy here. But I keep saying, I can see the real way, because most of these wannabe ecologists use electronics. Yes, you say well, electronics reduces energy consumption. But we do not realize that the production of a device and its ecological disposal is also energy-intensive. And for entertainment, I'll say one word. When I was talking to an environmental activist and I said, "Please, where do you want to get power to new machines, where do you want to get energy to run electric cars?" He said to me, "Well, it's in the drawer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-002-100.u13	Thank you. Mr. and Chairman of the ČSSD club Jan Chvojka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-002-100.u14	Thank you for the floor. Have a nice evening. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, now at 6:30 p.m., a fixed point will come up, and I think that if it lasted more than half an hour, that means over an hour of the 19th, it would be a shame that we didn't finish this point, which is basically before the end. This means that I would ask that we vote that the Chamber of Deputies is acting and, on a case-by-case basis, the Chamber of Deputies votes not on all proposals, please, but only on this point after 7 p.m. until 21 p.m. I think it'll be five or ten minutes tops, but it needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-058-06-002-100.u15	Thank you. There has been a procedural proposal, which I will immediately vote on. The point is that we are going to vote that the Chamber of Deputies will act and decide on a point that we are currently discussing, that is, point No. 100, House press 966, after 19 o'clock until 21 o'clock. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting order number 262, 95 Members registered, for 64, against 3. The motion was accepted. At this point, we will be discussing a fixed point.
