ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u1	15. Government bill on certain measures to mitigate the impact of SARS CoV-2 on persons involved in legal proceedings, victims of criminal offences and legal persons, and on the amendment of insolvency law and enforcement order /German press 807/ - shortened conduct Before discussing this government proposal, which has been submitted to us for a short hearing, we should have, in accordance with Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 5 assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law are in the accelerated procedure. So I am opening up a debate on this, and I am asking if anyone is applying to it. If this is not the case, I am once again ending the debate on this issue and we will be voting. I'll call my colleagues to the O.R. in case anybody wants to make sure he doesn't miss it. So the motion for a resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's draft law on certain measures to mitigate the effects of SARS CoV-2 on persons involved in legal proceedings, victims of criminal offences and legal persons, and on the amendment of insolvency law and enforcement order in a shortened hearing.' [[23.00 hours]] I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 186, 96 Members and Members shall be elected, for 90, against one. I note that the resolution has been adopted. So we'll continue the briefing. I note that there is still an agreement that we will not use factual remarks. So I am now opening this point and the proposal tabled will be presented by the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a government proposal for a law on certain measures to mitigate the impact of the Coronavirus on persons involved in legal proceedings, victims injured, legal persons and the amendment of insolvency law and enforcement order. The Ministry of Justice has drawn up this proposal following this current epidemic situation and, as a result, the government has also declared 12. 3. the emergency state and urgently try to solve problems falling within the Gesture of the Justice Department and to respond to these.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u3	Madam Secretary, I'm gonna cut you off and ask your colleagues in the room for some peace. Alternatively, we have a long debate, so there is no need to be present unless you are specifically interested. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u4	I would like to inform you that the bill was prepared with leading Czech experts in selected areas, it also passed a professional opponent and draws inspiration from abroad. We also addressed the College of Insolvency Judges, so there were also rich consultations. This proposal aims at four basic areas and suggests these solutions. First of all, it is a lack of time in court proceedings and administrative proceedings before the Ministry of Justice. In view of the mandatory quarantine or curfew, it is possible that some participants or other persons have missed the deadline laid down by law for carrying out the acts. Therefore, the proposal extends the use of existing institutes to waive the time limits for further deadlines, which cannot be excused today. For example, it is an extraordinary appeal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u5	Madam Secretary, I will interrupt you again and ask my colleagues for more peace in the hall. There aren't many of us here, I think we can handle it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u6	Another area of problems is the rights and obligations of legal entities, where we have also stopped. Here it is proposed to simplify the decision-making of legal entities using technical means or decisions of per rollam, the possibility of automatic extension or renewal of the term of office of members of the elected body which has elapsed during the duration of the emergency measures, with the consent of the person concerned. And extend the deadline for the convening of the general meeting or the member meeting of the cooperative to discuss the proper accounts. The next topic is changes in insolvency law. These changes are motivated mainly by the efforts to help our entrepreneurs whose business may be temporarily threatened as a result of this health crisis. These entrepreneurs did not get into an impaired economic situation by their own actions, but because of the existing measures. And it is also aimed at helping debtors in debt relief who may have problems with their income decline or loss. These measures are aimed at helping entrepreneurs. This is a delay in the debtor's obligation to file an insolvency claim in the event of bankruptcy six months after the termination of the emergency measure. Furthermore, the creditor's proposal submitted by 31 August 2020 will not be taken into account. [[23.10 hours]] It is also the introduction of an extraordinary moratorium institute that offers entrepreneurs a special protection regime preventively before and after the insolvency proposal has been filed, for which it protects them from bankruptcy decisions and allows them to operate their business. Furthermore, it is possible to temporarily interrupt the implementation of the approved reorganisation plan within six months of the end of the emergency measure, not later than the end of 2020, i.e. until 31 December. For borrowers in debt, which started after a big amendment effective from June 2019, the situation is also solved without legislative adjustments. They may, for example, benefit from the suspension or reduction of instalments, etc. The rules for debt relief initiated before that date are more rigid. Some legislative amendments are therefore proposed for them. For example, measures relating to payment according to the payment schedule, where the court does not withdraw the debt if the debtor does not pay from the monthly instalment due to this medical situation. The exemption from debts in old debts will be possible even if the debtor repays less than 30 per cent as a result of the coronavirus situation. In view of further developments, it is possible to expect future increased pressure on insolvency courts. It is therefore proposed to temporarily simplify service in insolvency cases, thereby administratively facilitating insolvency courts. In the context of discussions on the ground of the Sub-Committee on Enforcement, Insolvency and Debtion and the Sub-Committee on Consumer Protection and subsequently on the Constitutional Legal Committee, a large-scale amendment was adopted on the draft law, with which we agree, and I must state that the Ministry of Justice was involved in this amendment. In fact, the original proposal I proposed contained a change in the order of execution, the content of which was the stopping of resultsless executions. In agreement with the Sub-Committee on Enforcement and Insolvency on 2 April, it was decided that this amendment would be withdrawn from the proposal and replaced with other measures in executions which are precisely the content of the amendment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. I think I have to agree at this point that the original proposal was basically outside the legislative emergency, and I have to say that, basically, those who criticized it are right, and I assume that it will be discussed in the 545 press, in the order of execution, at the proper meeting. On my part, I think that's all it takes to introduce this law. I ask for his support, for he will help all those in need who are waiting for such a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u7	Thank you, too. And I note that the constitutionally-legal committee, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the President's decision, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 807/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of this committee, Mr Marek Výborný, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of this proposal in the committee and justify any amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is symbolic, because if I remember correctly last year when we were discussing the amendment to the insolvency law, it was also in the late hours of the night, and from my point of view it is still one of the most important press chambers that we have adopted here over the two years and a piece. And I think that even today's government proposal under House press 807, which responds to the crisis situation that we are in today, that is, the lex covid justice, is also very important, in my opinion, and is one of the more important prints. I don't want to do the order we're discussing today. I would like to start by saying that the law is important precisely because it responds to what awaits us in the coming days, weeks, our society, because really, as a result of the fact that today, according to the survey, it is evident that many people have lost their income from one day to the next, they are no longer able to fulfill their obligations, so here, let's say, maybe a debt pandemic, or simply falling into debt traps for people who couldn't imagine it even a month ago, two of them, or even admit that they should have these problems. In fact, the middle class is becoming dramatically threatened here. And these are the people who have property today. And actually find the measures that would somehow create a trampoline, a pillow, so that we don't lose these people, in quotes, in the sense that they end up in debt traps, but for example. Those companies that have now become insolvent may have continued their business after the crisis has subsided. These are all the measures in that law or in that bill. I would like to thank the Minister, the Ministry of Justice, her team, because I really - I may have to sigh here, unlike other ministries, as we have witnessed here today since morning and yesterday during the hearing, so here the cooperation is absolutely exemplary. And it also came from the Minister's mouth now in the opening report. I can only confirm it. We discussed the law promptly last week on the subcommittee on the issue of enforcement, insolvency and debt relief. It was almost four hours, a very constructive discussion with the representatives. And so will the Constitutional and Legal Committee on Monday. And the result has been introduced here in a way, I will not repeat it, introduced to the Minister. In fact, as far as the different time limits are concerned within the various types of legal proceedings, there was no dispute in those proceedings. As far as insolvency law is concerned, it is in principle clear that the Ministry has also made it clear that it has been drawn up in cooperation with people from practice and from justice, after consultation with the presidents of insolvency sections at regional courts. So there are key measures. I'd probably poke two of them out here. First, it is a moratorium that is supposed to protect entrepreneurs, businessmen, companies, so that insolvency proposals cannot be imposed on them by creditors, and that even they do not have to make an insolvency proposal by law, and that, indeed, after the crisis has subsided, they can continue their business as smoothly as possible. It is also a question of keeping jobs, etc. Everyone, as we are here, we know this is very important. Then there's something going on here, maybe a little revolutionary, and that's breaking the 30 percent threshold in debt for those who are legally in the process before the insolvency amendment 2019. This is once again a measure that has a significant social character, because really those who do their duties carefully today, so now they could lose their income from one day to the next, and it could be those who are about to get, virtually. they're not gonna get 30 percent of the debt they're owed on that line, and that means they're gonna have to be denied debt. So I think this is also the right measure. [[23.20 hours]] Where we actually got into the biggest discussion with representatives of the Ministry of Justice, it was precisely the area of execution. I am, and I have to say it, again with a number of these measures, I have raised my eyebrows a little today in the sense that these are really measures that correspond to a state of legislative emergency, or whether we are trying to use or abuse the situation here. But here we have actually agreed that this measure to stop futile executions, and I say for myself, it is an important measure, but it is not a measure that we should take in a state of legislative emergency. And all I can do here is take a turn for non-members of the subcommittee. We have already set a timetable for the House press meeting 545, which we have discussed, and if the House's running is going to get into some standard mode, we could, I hope, have the House press 545 negotiated by the summer holidays, and to a number of those measures that we may have tended to insert into this government amendment, we will be in the House press 545. So much for a hearing. So I will also like to put the resolution of the constitutionally-legal committee here as rapporteur, and I will now say something about the amendments from the committee as rapporteur, and then I will return to my own amendments in the general debate. At its 57th meeting on 6 April 2020, the Constitutional Legal Committee discussed the Government's proposal for a law on certain measures to mitigate the effects, etc., I think that, Mr President, I do not have to quote the whole thing, and after the justification of Deputy Minister of Justice Mgr Michal Franěk, the report adopted this resolution: firstly, the constitutionally-legal committee proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament that a general debate be held on the bill, we will have to put it to a vote. It also proposes to Parliament's Chamber of Deputies that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill. Thirdly, it proposes that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies close its negotiations no later than 24.00 on 8 April 2020. I do not know how to deal with this resolution here. I think it's zero because we voted after 24 o'clock. Fourthly, it recommends that the Chamber of Deputies approve the proposal and recommends that it adopt these amendments and additions to this resolution, which I will now probably present after the procedural vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u9	Thank you. I can see the suggestions. As far as the proposal for a general debate is concerned, this is a normal procedure. If no one is suggesting that we not lead it, then I would say that we will simply lead it and there is no need to vote at this point. In that case, I am opening a general debate and I have here with the priority right of Vice-President Okamura. But the rapporteur wants more - the rapporteur still has proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u10	If you don't mind, Mr Vice-President, I will present what the constitutionally-legal committee has decided to do. That's the role of the rapporteur I think is right. As rapporteur for this press, it is my duty in the reporting report to present a resolution which, in addition to formal procedural matters, also contains factual changes, virtually. Thus, a factual amendment, which was prepared in my cooperation, then Patrik Nacher's colleagues, Kateřina Valachová, Lukáš Kolařík and Jan Farský, apparently across the Chamber of Deputies, and this proposal, these points also received support in the context of the constitutionally-legal committee. What exactly is involved is that you know what you will then vote on on individual points. First, I will try very briefly - until the 30th, important measure. By 30 June 2020, this amendment is forbidden. Mobile execution, i.e. execution of decisions on the sale of movable items, as well as auctions, i.e. sale of real estate. Again, it is meant to be protection, immediate protection of those who get into trouble in the context of enforcement proceedings. We have replaced the originally proposed section 24, 25 by the Ministry of Justice. That means abolishing those executions that are in vain and where no performance has been recovered for three years. It is not that we object to this in substance, but we believe that this is to be part of the House's 545 press. That's the deal with the Justice Department. So this is the first measure - ban, virtually. restriction up to 30. 6th mobiliar executions and auctions. Another measure concerns, and this is point 4 of the resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, this concerns the insolvency law. The proposed launch in § 389 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) an insolvency law consisting of the existence of business debts effectively implies the equalisation of the entry conditions of natural persons into debt relief and entrepreneurs of traders. This is an important adjustment to the entry into the debt relief process. It is a change in the insolvency law, which means that tradesmen would no longer have to justify or justify the creditor's position that they do not agree, virtually. that he agrees with the admission of the CFI to debt relief. We're going to compare the terms for individuals and businessmen. We also consider this to be important in the context that, unfortunately, businessmen and entrepreneurs will be more involved in the bankruptcy and insolvency process than they have been so far. Another measure which forms part of the resolution adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Committee is the protection of severance payments and the protection of the tax bonus. Measures that we also consider to be very important and crucial in a situation where many employees will be losing their jobs or are already losing their jobs today, and the severance pay today under the applicable law is unfortunately subject to execution as well as tax bonus. The tax bonus scheme will include those who have a maintenance obligation towards families, parents, and there is a need to protect both the tax bonus and the severance payment and to put them in those protected items under the enforcement procedure. Another measure approved by the Constitutional and Legal Committee is an increase in the amount of principal, when it is possible to declare an auction for the property which is held as permanent residence of the debtor, from 30 thousand to 100 thousand crowns. Again, the scalding that is supposed to lead to people losing a roof over their heads for a debt that is relatively low, 30,000. I say this very briefly. This is described in detail in the reasoning of this amendment. These are therefore the measures approved by the Constitutional and Legal Committee. I will then return to the other amendments that are part of this press in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u11	Well, thank you, too. I would like to remind you of the committee's resolution that we are due to close by 24 o'clock, so I hope that we will all be involved in this, even though I do not see it really at this time. I apologize to Vice-President Okamur, who was with priority rights. Please, this is your moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, it is said that an extraordinary time calls for extraordinary action, but the fact is that an extraordinary time of extraordinary action also allows. As a result, we are finally talking about a radical reduction in the execution of debt traps, which the SPD has long sought. I would like to remind you that we have had proposals in the House for several months from the SPD pen that would benefit both the state and debtors and creditors. First of all, it's a proposal to nationalize executors. More precisely, a return to a state where the executors enforced a commission by the court, when executions were enforced by the court of delegation and payment by judicial officials. [[23.30 hours]] In the House there is also a proposal by the SPD, which concludes the new order of repayment of debts, i.e. the principal, so that the creditor gets his money and at the same time the debtor gets rid of the interest-bearing debt, and then the judgments and fees to the executioners. Today it's the other way around. Today we pay first opinions and fees, and then the principal, which is the problem. At the same time, we propose to cancel interest on interest. In today's abominable practice, people often pay interest and interest rates on interest, which have already overpaid the original debt in total, but the principal of the debt remains and the debt does not fall and cannot get rid of the execution. This is a terrible situation. So it's really remarkable that this simple and logical proposal that the SPD here proposes to first pay the principal, that is, the original debt, and then the judgments and charges and the cancellation of interest interest, that it simply cannot go through in this House for several years and that this proposal is blocked. This is really incredible, and I must say that then the question arises about who the other political parties in the House are really digging for. Whether it's the citizens or the bailiffs or the loan sharks. Because here, of course, I would also recall another SPD proposal, which I have been pushing through and lying here for several years, and that is the ceiling of interest on the so-called RPSN - annual percentage interest rates on consumer loans. This is true in most EU countries. That means - and the House here doesn't want to accept it, which is also by putting interest on it, so that - we essentially cancel interest on loan sharks - we actually help people not fall into debt traps. And here, the House just doesn't want to accept it. So we're going to fight the SPD to just accept it because we're on the side of those citizens. I could continue with the examples of proposals and changes for a long time. We have, of course, another proposal to enact the so-called local jurisdiction of the executors, which would prevent the business of debt. He's here at second reading, but now it's stuck, and it's been going on for a while. By the way, I proposed this proposal here in the last parliamentary term and I was rejected in the last parliamentary term. So that's a good suggestion, too, but it's not moving around. We should bear in mind that debt traps need to be radically resolved, because everyone is making money on this. Moreover, I do not know of the only country in the world where thieves and usury have worked around executions and loans at a level such as in the Czech Republic in the last 30 years. And believe me, we've had international analyses done on this subject by the Parliamentary Institute. We should also deal with other debts stemming from loan shark interest and from a poorly set system from the past. Even a little different, personally, I would be in favour of paying off the principal and forgiving all the judgments. Most borrowers would lose the overwhelming part of their debt. Institutions under state control, such as health insurance companies, social security administrations or financial authorities, could also join and at least forgive usury penalties. I'm in favour of the principle of debt, but let's try not to steal from it. In this context, I would like to remind you of the appalling situation, as the state currently parasites one fifth, 21% of VAT on executions, which are charged by the executors in addition. And I, when I asked -- because in the SPD, we're proposing that the state stop parasiticating on those executions and don't overcharge the fifth, the VAT, so we're proposing to cancel the VAT, give it zero VAT. But wonder to the world, it has returned to me information that if the bailiffs are not nationalized - which, however, is suggested by the SPD here all the time, to nationalize the executors, and we do not find any support here - the European Union's rules do not allow the private executors to forgive VAT. Or, if I simply say so, because of the European Union, because of the rules of the European Union, it is not possible to forgive VAT of 21 per cent for executors. And how did I figure that out? When I asked about this at the meeting with Minister Schillerová 14 days ago, at the meeting between the opposition and the government, I raised this question, so the Minister said it, and it heard us more, answering my question. So, because of the European Union, executions are going to cost 21 percent. This really is an incredible situation, and that is another reason for us to step forward so that we can make our own rules. So, on the one hand, the government doesn't want to support our proposal to nationalize executors, which would make them cheaper. Those bailiffs couldn't charge 21 percent of the VAT and it would get cheaper. On the other hand, you do not want to allow us a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union, which - we counted it a moment ago - we have proposed it 13 times in this House, including the last term, 13 times we have proposed it here and 13 times you have rejected this point in the House. So basically now he's paying for it, among other things - we're talking about people in debt traps, we're talking about executions, we're talking about insolvencys. So basically, you guys were actually maneuvering other parties, with this attitude of yours, citizens who are basically really in a total trap, and legislative, but they're both so weird because you don't want to let them have the reins. So I'm saying again that behind the SPD, I'm reminding you that in the House, we're already dealing with these proposals of ours that are basically dealing with helping people in debt traps, really systemically. Today, in this emergency situation we're discussing, these are solutions that, of course, are for discussion. We will support all proposals that would help people in debt traps, executions and insolvencys. But the really system solution that we want to set up, we can't get to that here even after a relatively long time of work in the House. I have to say that I am a little sorry, or I am very sorry that the Ministry of Justice, although we have talked about this with the Minister, about our proposals, 14 days ago, so I was a little bit expecting, at least I was hoping, I was hoping that at least one of these proposals that I have discussed here will be incorporated now in the context of this legislative emergency, within this point. And it's not working. So again, these are basically changes that aren't really the really deep changes so that we can really relieve those people in debt traps. Of course, the next topic is also basically the forgiveness of all those small executions that cannot be enforced, but that is another topic, and it is a topic that will definitely be discussed here, and we will also talk about it. So for us, I'm saying that we hope that the other parties finally have our proposals, which have been here in the House for several months, that you will support them, that you will reach into your conscience, because the situation of hundreds of thousands of people is very serious. And it's not just about those people who are in executions, but it's about their families. And by the way, here I would like to point out that now that the state is getting big, and we've approved an increase in the deficit to CZK 200 billion in this year's budget, the state should also try to generate some revenue on the other hand. And by making those about a few hundred thousand people, 300 people (?) who have executions, often work in the gray economy, because they often work black, so that in some way they can basically avoid the monstrous, hideous system, so even the state does not receive that income from these citizens. They're skilled citizens. And that state should also consider the balance to make the state receive social security payments, health insurance and income tax. And we should try to get those people who are actually forced to live in that gray economy because of the state's incompetence and the inability of existing governments, so they can get back into the normal economy and into the normal social life so they don't have to hide. And the state would actually make a fortune on it. That is why I wanted to ask you to think about the long-term SPD proposals that we have been trying to promote here for several years, because helping people in debt traps and executions has been one of the major SPD program themes for several years. And so that we really -- there's this meeting, from that 21st, there will be a proper meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and there will be a government proposal on the agenda again, which is supposed to be something -- but to really reach out to those deeper solutions to help those people at last. Because I'm warning you, we have a year and a half before the election, there's not much time left. The legislative process in the House lasts about a year. The House, the Senate, the President's signature. And basically, if we don't agree to these proposals this spring that would fundamentally help people in debt traps, proposals from the SPD pen, and it's just the cosmetic government proposals, we can't help these people at least two and a half years from now. Because before the House reunites, next fall of the election, the legislative process before it gets together, so if this spring, we don't help people in debt traps and you don't accept some of these laws, you won't help us with it - because we only have 20 votes, the SPD - you automatically condemn those people that they will suffer for at least two to three years again in these debt traps. And I must say that even our proposal to nationalise executors, I think it is appropriate, because it is not an isolated proposal, and it also works in some countries of the European Union. So thank you for your attention and I hope that we will have the courage to encourage those deeper changes so that we can help hundreds of thousands of citizens and their families that we are proposing here for the SPD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u13	Thank you and Mr Kubíček with a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u14	Thank you for the floor. As usual, I propose a shortening of the time in the general and detailed debate for each Member once to five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u15	Thank you. Thus, a reduction of speaking time to five minutes in both debates. I've called my colleagues to the O.R. I don't think there's 66 of us here at the moment so I can vote, so I'm gonna sign you off so we have an update. Please sign up with your cards again. When we reach that number, we can vote on reducing speaking time. Or I will have to interrupt the meeting, or Mr Kubíček will have to withdraw his proposal. We'll see how it goes. Members are still coming, I welcome them. We have a proposal to shorten speaking time to five minutes in both debates. When there are enough of us, we can vote. It still doesn't look like there's enough of us. The MP's on his way to the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u16	I'll be constructive, I guess waiting for the MPs would take longer than leaving it. I appeal that the Members will not delay this significantly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u17	I don't know. The Member withdraws, and I would continue and, if necessary, I will give a motivational stopwatch and I will not stop. Please, Mr Feri, who is the first to be logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u18	Shouldn't we stop the negotiations, Mr Vice-President? [[President: Do you think there must be 66 of us here at this time?]] You tell me, I don't know. Shall we continue?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u19	I think we can continue. Or does the House require 66 Members present in the Chamber, or 67, so that we can proceed? I believe our colleagues may be following us. [[Again votes from the diaper, MP Benda off the microphone.]] I think so, too. I'd keep going. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u20	I take Marek's word for a binding legal interpretation, through Mr President, I will continue. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear members of the government present, I will try to keep the five-minute time that is running out there, albeit indicative. This bill concerns the executions, insolvencys and the running of time limits. The course of time was basically smooth. But execution and insolvency, whenever discussed in the House, confronted us with the problem that these are not things of type, that you have subject A and subject B, some two conflicting interests, and you have to balance them. It's not like the rents we've been talking about. Subject A, subject B, maybe stand on it. There's a lot more of these interests. There's a debtor, a creditor, mandatory, legitimate, if you will. There's an interest in someone who's processing the whole thing, which means an executor, an insolvency administrator, for example. There are some insolvency courts, enforcement courts. There's the interests of small creditors, big creditors, that sort of thing. And among them is the need to find a very strict balance. What Vice-President Okamura mentioned here through the President is an example of how this should not be done. I've been checking because I'm trying to make decisions based on data about the enforcement of law before the private bailiffs were here. That's before 2001. First of all, there's no data. Not in the execution courts, not in the executors, of course. But yet somehow I reconstructed it from the memories of those who at that time, for example, had claims or administered them, lawyers. The enforcement was zero to two percent. I'm 1996. I don't remember. But back in the '90s it was said within the legal community: Who paid debts was an idiot - pardon me, I apologize to the ladies present. Because it just wasn't necessary. That's why the bailiffs are here. It's just a full introduction. As part of the search for the desired balance, we always tried to balance the extension pressure in the right part of the hall. But now I think there's a need to make a change. Now we really need to help those who fall into that debt trap, that is, middle class, and that is why we were in the process of adopting those adjustments, and that is why we are also in favour of this law, very conciliatory. And I thank the Ministry that it managed to prepare the law quite well in such a short time. But what I warn about is making systemic changes in non-systemic times. Minister Havlíček mentioned this today. This means that we make changes throughout the system, that is, as is set up, for example, insolvency, how long and how much time, when emotions are there, when there is simply a completely different economic situation, which can change very dramatically. We should only make those decisions to the extent necessary. Therefore, we will not support those proposals that change the system on a march and that do not seek a balance that, for example, ignores the fact that the system must somehow be administered, that it is not possible to devour the justice system, that money cannot be collected, as some here mention to the wind, that the executors... So you can't take money from those who have to manage those claims. What Vice-President Okamura is right about through the President is VAT. That would really make the system easier. It's for some longer legislative debate, but unfortunately I can't confirm in the rest. And one particular thing from the amendments. I warn against interfering with the late interest adjustment, even if it has been corrected, and I know that the amendment has changed. This means at least the legal amount of interest on late payments is maintained, but it is prohibited to apply sanctions in such a way as to impose a broad interpretation that will lead to a single one. In those previous shows, I always stick to the same thing. There's a recording of people being sued. If penalties are prohibited, such as a contractual penalty, such a contractual penalty may take different forms. It may have a penalty character but may also have a compensatory character in terms of compensation for damage. Will this provision apply? Will this contractual penalty be applicable? Well, who decides? We don't. We can answer what we think, but the binding interpretation will be provided by the court. And there I fear that there will be a great problem in this provision, and it will lead to a great deal of litigation and a great deal of disillusionment. This means that I would recommend rejecting this proposal and correcting, for example, only the interest. Our parliamentary club will support this proposal. (?) We thank and come up with our own amendments, which I will present in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u21	Thank you for keeping the time reserved. The debate is now being held by a Member of the Výborný. I'll also give you a motivational stopwatch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u22	Thank you for the floor. I will no longer comment on the words of Vice-President Okamura, but I look forward to working with you on the subcommittee because the press 545 is really in session and I will be happy for every contribution. If there were representatives of the SPD, they would know that, for example, the prioritization of the principal, that means turning those things around, was already in discussion within this press. However, it is legislatively so complex that it was not able to bring the Ministry of Justice into such a form that we could present it in a state of legislative emergency. We will deal with this matter within the framework of the House's 545 press. [[23.50 hours]] I would like to present two further amendments, which I will then apply to in the context of a detailed debate. The one is small, originally part of the proposal presented on the Constitutional and Legal Committee. We took it out of it and in cooperation with colleague Tomáš Kohoutek, Patrik Nacher, Kateřina Valachová, Lukáš Kolařík and Jan Farskýý we present it separately. The point is that we want to improve the situation of the COVID-19 crisis as far as possible by reducing the sanctions that may be required of the debtor - but I stress, by 30. 6. Those things are really limited by the crisis situation. It is not that it is not possible to enforce any sanctions there, but it will only be covered, up to the amount of interest in the legal amount, simply into legal interest. It will not be possible for other contractual fines to be imposed there and so forth. So it's supposed to be one of those protective measures. And the second thing, and I think it's very radical, but we're in an emergency situation, an emergency situation sometimes requires some extraordinary measures. And perhaps it would be a good idea if Vice-President Okamura listened because I believe he will support this proposal, and that is a sort of stop to initiate enforcement proceedings - again limited in time until 30. 6. I am aware that this is a radical measure. However, in a situation where not tens, hundreds, but thousands, not only natural persons, but also entrepreneurs, businessmen, middle class, are really at risk here. It said well here, these are really people at risk of the current situation, who couldn't even imagine it until a month ago. So we believe it would be appropriate to establish a sort of moratorium here to initiate executions by 30. 6. I want to stress that this is not an absolute moratorium. In this proposal, as we put it together with colleagues Marek Benda and again the four others across the Chamber of Deputies, we exclude the executions which aim to enforce maintenance, as well as compensation for intentional crimes. So it's not supposed to be absolute. We are aware that maintenance is a priority. However, it is a measure which can be quite specific, it is a typical state of legislative emergency, namely to help those who fall into the problems in the coming weeks. I would like you to support these proposals, along with the great amendment of the constitutionally-legal committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u23	Thank you, too. And now, Mrs Valachová in the debate, Mr Nacher will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u24	The last few weeks have been very difficult for the Czech Republic. Many people are losing their full income. Many people even lose their jobs. And it is natural that we come as a government with a reduction in the impact on the people, towards the workers. I'd split it into two groups. The first group, of course, are people who have had problems today or before, dealt with debts in various ways, many who owe slavery. Many have taken on debts during the recent economic crisis in 2009, 2010 and because of high accessories and various unfair practices, they have come into a situation where they really cannot pay off their debts. I would like to remind you that during the recent economic crisis in 2009, 2010 many people were in an impossible situation and the impossibility of paying off their debts because employers did not pay wages at the time. Nearly 30 percent of these people have incurred debts by not being able to pay rent as a result of unpaid wages. Not an insignificant part of such debtors were people, and it was especially the north of Moravia and the north of Bohemia, who suffered greatly, who, as a result of secondary insolvency, were once again in an impossible situation. This is the first group we want to target to keep their life situation from getting any worse. Therefore, I thank the Minister of Justice for remembering and forgiving 30 per cent of the obligation to pay the debt already in the ongoing debt waivers, which are not yet covered by the quotes, the benefits we approved last year. I really think that's very effective. And I myself have dozens of e-mails, dozens of concrete life stories that show that this particular measure will help the Secretary of State. As for our efforts, I thank my colleague Nacher, Výborný, Kolářík and Farský for his cooperation. In the long term, we are trying to improve the situation in the area of execution and debt relief. And I am glad that, together with the Minister of Justice, we have agreed on a number of extraordinary changes for the next few weeks or months, which means a ban on auctions, a ban on mobile executions. And I would especially like to ask you to support the amendment, which increases several times the one-off amount that people receive from the bank in the situation of the billing, before they unblock this account within a month, because very often it happens in a situation where there are inconvenient or unforgivable amounts, there is a deducted wage there. And it is unfair if people who work or have any other similar income remain completely without resources. So please support the amendment, which, in addition to me, was supported by the group of colleagues that I mentioned, but also by colleague Hrnčíř of the SPD and also by colleague Dominik Feri of the TOP 09. Finally, I would like to say that, at the same time, when discussing this bill, we have reached agreement with the Minister of Justice that some things are systemic, it needs to be deeper, so that it really helps people to work things out. Typically, I would like to mention stopping the so-called futile, ineffective executions. And now we have to work together as quickly as possible in the next two months to find a way to get a number of people out of a situation where they haven't been able to pay a crown of creditors for years, but they feed on various charges of an execution system that leads nowhere. We don't want executions for executions. We want an honest payment of debts to creditors, a fair payment of debts to creditors. But we don't want to owe slavery. And we won't allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u25	Thank you. And I beg Mr Nacher, who is now in the debate. Mr Blažek will prepare himself, whom I have also seen here somewhere. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-08-ps2017-044-02-018-015.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, it's almost midnight. I admit I caught a second breath because I'm used to working here with Professor Svoboda until seven in the morning. However, I promised Mrs Hyťhová I'd have her allowance in eight minutes, so I'll try to hold him. Firstly, I would like to say that we have been here all day approving various changes and support in this extraordinary situation for people who could practically, or at least theoretically, create different reserves. Now, at midnight, we're actually in the middle of a phase where we're talking about the future of people who couldn't make reserves from the definition of things. They couldn't, because if they made them, the bailiff, the insolvency administrator, the creditor and all that. This means that our measures must be proportionate to this disproportion that has occurred here and to this extraordinary situation. We have proposed several amendments that could be divided into two groups to make it clear. These are the disposable ones that will be valid until 30. 6. if we approve this, this is a temporary ban on Mobiliar executions, auctions for real estate, a temporary ban on requiring interest on late payment beyond the legal amount, or a temporary ban on the commencement of execution until 30 June. Then there are measures that we've been calculating with for a long time and which were about to happen and which at this point, like some of the previous laws, will, let's say, prevent us from solving this ex post when the problem arises. I mean, the exclusion of the tax bonus from the execution, an adjustment to the severance collection, which, of course, works for me today, is that if a person gets a three-month severance grant, he's left with just one unforgivable minimum, one unforgivable amount, instead of leaving him with as many unforgivable sums as the severance package is designed for how many months. As well as increasing the limit on real estate auctions from 30 to 100,000, because now you can expect a greater strain on the debtors, and therefore a greater appetite to start selling real estate. As well as the positive is definitely the entry and the possibility of entering the tradesmen into debt relief under the same conditions as the natural persons.
