ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u1	39. Government bill on waste / House print 676/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposed bill will be introduced by the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. And I'm going to report that Mr. Ivan Bartoš, who told me before the vote, so on the screen record, has been voting with a replacement card number 18 since the beginning of this afternoon's program. Let's go back. Under the authority of the Government, the proposed bill will be introduced by the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please, Minister, take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is, I think, also in my interest, that I should not hold back now with a long opening word in the second reading, because I think that this debate has certainly been very strong in the various parliamentary committees, and it will undoubtedly still be. I would just like to very much appreciate the discussion that took place in the three committees - the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantees, on the Economic Committee and also on the Committee on Public Administration. And I would like to say that we, as the Ministry of the Environment, have provisionally given our consent to a number of amendments that have fallen there. It is clear that, in the meantime, other amendments have been read. And I would like to say that I am not surprised at the number of amendments, too, because when you look at their substance, you will find that they are against each other in a number of cases. For some, the ban on landfilling in 2030 is too fast, for some it is too slow. For someone the fee is too low, for someone it is too high. For some, the sorting discount is too strict, too gentle for others. So it's not exactly simple - and I think it's a great euphemism - to find a match between these opinions. I still believe we'll find the match eventually. After all, I firmly believe that in the end we will find it at least in some final vote. But I think the debate, or I'm convinced that the debate that took place in the committees was very interesting, and that it was definitely... I would like to thank all the petitioners for this, although we could not agree with some of the amendments. Meanwhile, a number of other negotiations have taken place with the main partners, i.e. with the Union of Towns and Municipalities, the Confederation of Industry, the Chamber of Commerce, and we are ready to discuss certain compromises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u3	We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Economic Committee and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 676/1 to 8. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Jan Schiller, now take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee and of any possible amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u4	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I must say, then, that I do not have a resolution that is quite long from the Committee on the Environment. And if we can, would I be able to read it in a minute? Or I don't have to load it...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u5	One more time, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u6	I don't think we'll be reading the resolution of the Committee on the Environment until third reading?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u7	Yeah, pretty much. But now, just let us know the report on the hearing. I'm sure you've got it on you. [[Messenger. I don't have that.]] Oh, wait a minute. I'll give it to you. Come on, if you like. I'll give it to him, just a second. So it's an environmental committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u8	Thank you. I'm sorry. So I would read the resolution of the Environment Committee. So after the justification of Deputy Minister of the Environment Berenika Peštová, Mr Jan Schiller's report and the debate of the Committee on the Environment of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve amendments adopted: 1. In Article 9, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The following shall be inserted after the words "in accordance with paragraph 5 of this Article: 4" shall be inserted by the words "and the goods manufactured in the equipment defined in point 11 of Annex No 4 to this Act. 2. In Article 18, the following sentence is added at the end of paragraph 2: "The prohibition referred to in the first sentence shall not apply to waste caused by the municipality.". 3. In Article 21, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 the words "or landfill" shall be inserted after the word "use" and the number 1 shall be replaced by the number 2. [[15.00 hours]] 4. In Article 31, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The text "and three' is added after the text in paragraph 2. 5. In Article 36 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) (a) "higher" is replaced by "lower" and "or" by "a." 6. In Article 67, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 is 2. The sludge which has not been treated shall be classified as other waste. The untreated sludge must be treated in the light of the health risks it poses. Persons involved in the transport of untreated sludge must fulfil their obligations under Sections 78 and 79 as if they were hazardous waste. Anyone handling sludge must ensure that sludge is labelled in a manner and to the extent specified by the Ministry's decree. The designation of sludge shall always include an indication of whether or not the sludge is treated and, in the case of treated sludge, details of the treatment of sludge. 7. In accordance with Article 106 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The (c) the word "a" shall be replaced by a comma and at the end of the letter. (d) the period is replaced by "a" and the following points are added: (e) which sounds - uh, it's very long: (e) hazardous waste prevention (?) the removal or remediation of ecological loads resulting from contamination of the rock environment of groundwater or surface waters which have been treated with hazardous substances, if such contamination occurred by 31 December 2005 at the latest or if the source of such contamination is not known or no longer exists in the case of a partial charge for the storage of remedial wastes. 8. At the end of § 107, the following sentence is added: The rate for the disposal of waste for the partial basis of the charge for the storage of remediation waste is CZK 1000. 9. In Article 110, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The following sentence is added: The income from the partial charge for the storage of remedial waste becomes the income of the municipality in whose territory the landfill is located. 10. Paragraph 111 to 115, including the heading, reads: § 111 General provisions... I'm sorry, I don't know if I'm gonna read this whole thing because it's so long.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u9	I don't think there's a need to read all this, but I don't want to interfere with your interpretation of the proposal discussion on your committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u10	I think that we will certainly be going back to the interpretation and it is also part of the amendments that will definitely be heard here, so we would repeat ourselves here several times. If you don't mind, I will go to the very end: she is instructing the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Thirdly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the results of the discussion of this proposal at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, empowers the Committee's rapporteur to make appropriate technical adjustments in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies. I will then sign up, I am also enrolled in the general debate, where I will introduce you to my amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u11	Thank you. Now I ask that the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Ivan Adamec, and subsequently the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Jan Schiller, take the floor gradually. Please inform us about the discussion of the proposal in the committees and possible amendments. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u12	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, colleagues, I would like to begin by thanking the House's Organising Committee for allowing us to discuss the second reading of the draft waste law in the normal regime, because, at the time we were supposed to discuss it, there was a meeting of the Committee on the Environment in parallel, and because it is a law that affects all the people of the Czech Republic economically, so we wanted the professional public to be present, and because unlike the Committee on the Environment, which had a technical tool for being on the web live, it was not possible for our committee at the same time, so thank you very much for pushing the deadline. We discussed it on June 10th. The motion for a resolution is very simple. There has been a single change, and that is the shift of the end of the landfill from 2029 to 2027, which may have surprised even the petitioner of the amendment, but that is the only amendment that has passed in this first law from the waste package in the Economic Committee. The resolution is very simple. There is one amendment, respectively. Paragraph 40 (1) (a) of the EEA Agreement applies to: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 number 2029 is replaced by number 2027. Then there is authorisation and mandate for the chairman of the committee to pass on this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. I have to say, paradoxically, the subject looks like the package is mainly environmental, but I have already pointed out here at first reading that it is not that it is an economic package, because it will touch everyone's population, and the change that awaits us, which I think is necessary, because we have committed ourselves to something, and I think it is necessary to free ourselves from the traditional fight of landfills versus incinerator, it is a slightly different subject at the moment, and that there have certainly been discussions about, I would say, motivational elements for the municipalities to separate, but on the other hand, we have simply stated that although we have prepared the package for the vote, it is here on my taste of a lot of amendments that will still come at second reading today, in the package all, not only in this first law. I think that such a complex bill should probably be prepared in a slightly different way in the coalition. I don't want to say any better, because, of course, that's never an estimate to be fair again, to be what passes through here, and some consensus here comes at third reading, it's just that we're voting something, it's got to be said that that's how it's going to be. If it's for the best, that's not what I'm gonna be able to tell you right now. Personally, there's one thing that bothers me about the package, and that's the uncertainty of the target. We say we're going to separate like wonders, which is okay, eventually the municipalities are already doing it, and if we encourage them, it's going to get even better. But what's the recycling going to look like? And here I see a big problem because I see a big unknown at the end of the process. Personally, I would like to warn you that we will be in a hurry to ban landfills very quickly. I think time and practice will show that, unfortunately, we're not quite ready for this, and if anyone thinks that date is motivational, I don't think so. I think the Ministry of the Environment has well chosen the 2030 deadline because Europe says 2035 and is very well aware of how difficult this process will be. So I just want to say it's an economic package. It's gonna cost us a lot of money. Of course, estimates are very airy today. I don't want to argue that this is the right number, but I think it's about 30 billion. It will cost us all extra in the next transition period, and I think it is necessary to do everything to make the quality of the process better and better. Finally, I think this is not the last package to regulate this waste disposal and recycling methodology. I think we're gonna have to get back to it anyway. The Economic Committee recommends for approval with the amendment that I have mentioned here. For me, that's all at the moment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u13	I would now ask Mr Jan Schiller to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and to justify any amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u14	Thank you. I'd take the liberty of perhaps answering my colleague now. There are a lot of amendments, but when you look at them, it's basically three things - the end of landfilling or the end of landfilling, the funding, and then there's another thing, and that's the calorific value of dry matter. They're all kind of covering up for themselves a little bit, and they're a lot alike, so even if there's maybe 45 of them in there right now, it's not that bad. It really only focused on a few points. Everyone's worried about something, we know about it, and we've talked about it in all the committees, that waste is really business, and there's a combination of where the landfillers are on the one hand, on the other hand, those who want to use energy waste, and on the last hand, those who want to recycle. [[15.10 hours]] I think we need to give this law right now, because when that time was set up in 2024, I think those companies should have been in place by now. They could have prepared for this, but unfortunately nothing is ready, and perhaps the resources for the energy recovery of the waste are not yet. They had enough time to prepare, but these companies need a signal. I think that we are giving them this new law, and not only by it, a signal for further development, for example in the economy, in the fact that new recycling companies can be created, new companies can be created for the energy use of waste. So I think really, really, for me, I think it's necessary that we just approve this law as soon as possible so those companies can start it up. Of course, they will also be municipalities and everyone will wait for the outcome - some of them will, of course, touch it, but we will get to that - where we were looking for tools to make it really not fatal for those municipalities, that really will be expensive. And it's about the fact that the main reason is that we really turn away from landfilling, and then the question is whether we're going to recycle more or use more energy waste, that's in each of us's opinion, which one of us is probably promoting in some way. But I think we really should move forward like this. That's probably what it was. I believe, but I am not quite sure that a year has been added to the Economic Committee, or 2028 has been approved. I don't know if 2027, but I thought 2028, shutting down the landfill. That is an amendment. But it's possible, it's possible that... I've memorized 2028, but just to realize that all the support tools are set up until 2030, including the one - we're going to talk about here - including the sorting discount, which will actually be set up so that the municipalities can keep up and make it very motivating. So let's hope and see. But I say, there are several amendments, from 2024 even until 2035 somebody proposed there, so there is a large scale. I, in order not to delay, will read the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, where I am also the rapporteur. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development of the 37th Meeting of 16 April 2020 on the Government Bill on Waste, House Press 676. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 37th meeting following the reasoning of Mrs Ing's draft. Veronika Peštová, PHD, Deputy Minister of the Environment, following Mr Jan Schiller's report, adopted a resolution following the debate, I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve the House's 676/0 press in the submitted text, II. empowers the Committee's rapporteurs to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the resolution; and III. Instructs the President of the Committee to send the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u15	I am now opening up a general debate in which I have a number of Members of Parliament, so the first to speak is Mr Elfmark. And I'll just read two apologies before you get there. So Mr Martin Kolovratník apologizes from 15 o'clock to the end of the day for health reasons and at the same time apologises tomorrow on 18 June throughout the day for health reasons. Furthermore, Mr Jan Pošvář apologizes today from 15 a.m. to the end of the day for health reasons. Ambassador, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u16	Thank you for the floor. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to confirm in advance what the Minister said that we have four Parliamentary press, which are very important, are very technical, and I would even say that they are quite technical. The European Commission, in turn the European Union is forcing us into certain transpositions, and what things we should implement in our legislation. If we talk about what is needed to get there, then what is mandatory there, we have managed to get there, but the European Union tells us that we have to have some goals, that we have to meet certain objectives within certain years. I think that we could achieve these goals a little more ambitious than the Ministry is proposing, and I will comment on the way I imagine it later, as I will represent my amendments. We have such a very simple moto - the best waste is the one that does not arise at all. We can still find out that this legislation is very complex, if we look at how many amendments have been tabled. A fellow Member named Adamec also said so. A total of almost 100 amendments have been tabled, and we, for the Pirates, put them together to all four House prints, almost 30. It's also been said in a certain way, I get it when we're here with legislation, or when I took it over for the club two years ago, I couldn't even realize how big the business was. I had no idea what all this was all about. The pressures of the landfillers, the pressures of the incinerators, the pressures of the energyists, the communities, the cities - all these people have some interests in this. And I've just always stopped by, what a role an ordinary person, an ordinary citizen, plays in these laws, and I was wondering, when he's the beginning of the chain, he buys the consumer goods, he generates the garbage, where his interests are concerned. We introduced a very simple thing about a year ago here in the Chamber of Deputies, and that's a quality waste sorting, you see it all in the halls. I wonder if people have noticed the improvement that we haven't got overcrowded bins here, etc. And these are all the little things that start from the bottom. If we want to get the circulation economy of the Czech Republic into the 21st century, we should be more ambitious. Personally, I think the Ministry has done a very good job, and I have to commend it for that, but there are elements that I will introduce further and which I think could have been more ambitious. I will have a slightly longer comment on this House's press, and then I will also present my 16 amendments to this press. Waste that does not end up in landfills, in energy recovery or worst in nature, in oceans, in soil is very often made up of usable material. We're throwing away what could serve as a raw material instead of so-called virgin raw materials. And I think we can agree that it's wrong, and we all see that it's wrong. Such an approach to the 21st century simply does not belong. The future is in recycling and maximum use of what we have. The need to preserve the environment, and therefore the need to address the waste situation, which we are developing more and more, is now being reflected in the legislation of advanced states. It is one of the reasons for the emergence of new European legislation, directives to lead to the creation of so-called 'European legislation'. circular economy, circular economy, simply a system where instead of a line of raw materials, product and waste we will have so-called. Closed circle, raw material cycle. Implementation of this European legislation is also the reason for the amendment of Czech laws, so called. the circulation package, i.e. the laws that we now have ahead of us. The final form that we will give to the laws will decide whether the Czech Republic will embark on a journey towards a circular future or, as I say, we will still be a garbage dumpster in Europe, which may sometimes seem. Personally, I have been working intensively on this issue for six years and, as a Member, I have spent hundreds of hours of discussions with experts in this area, and, as the Minister will certainly confirm, we have also held two very large seminars, which have been visited, essentially the capacity has been fulfilled, there have been experts from all sides, and I think that we have certainly discussed a lot of topics there and maybe the Ministry has inspired some interpretations. We created the pirát specially for this House press, or rather for the whole circulation package, as well as a special web about the economy.eu. I am trying to contribute to improving circular laws with my amendments, which I will be talking about in a moment. Their form is the result of close cooperation with experts from our working group, with experts with whom I worked and who contributed their suggestions, suggestions and comments. They're people moving in different places around waste and circulatory economies. They were representatives of non-profit organizations, associations of waste and circulatory economies, companies that process waste, collective systems and also authorized companies. [[15.20 hours]] Both the public and the public should be able to participate in the legislation that directly concerns them. A fellow Member named Adamec has already mentioned this. As a member of the Committee on the Environment, I regretted the fact that the committee's discussions were not public because of the measures in relation to the pandemic of coronavirus. But the chair of our committee, colleague Dana Balcarová, has at least advocated that the committee's meetings be streamed online, for which I personally thank her very much, and at least a little bit of the opportunity for the public not to be passive, but at least in this way she could get to know what the committee and what the package of the circular economy contains. I was also in favour of postponeing the committee's discussions, like the Economic Committee, until public participation in the club's meetings was allowed. [[Committee]] Unfortunately, some colleagues on the committee did not have the same opinion as I did with my colleague, and therefore both meetings of the committee were held in an emergency or emergency state. Justification that legislation needs to be discussed or even approved as quickly as possible and therefore avoid possible sanctions from the European Commission on the basis of non-compliance with the transposition process, which is to end with us 5. 7. 2020 I have decided to verify this information with the Czech Republic's state representation bodies for the European Union in Brussels and also with the local authorities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic, the Department of Community Law. On the whole, I want to say that the obligation of the Czech Republic to implement the law of the European Union results from its membership of the European Union. In the case of directives, the obligation to implement properly, in addition to the full and timely transposition into national law and its subsequent application, is included in the communication by the European Commission of the measures taken by the European Commission, no later than within the time limit laid down in the specific directive. If the commitment is not fulfilled, the European Commission shall initiate a so-called formal notice in which the Member State concerned informs it that it has not been provided with information on the national legislation implementing the directive in question and shall provide it with approximately two months to remedy it. However, if a higher power intervenes in the matter, which COVID-19 can be regarded as a higher power, as a possible liberating reason for failure to implement obligations can be accepted in general terms. All experts from the above-mentioned institutions say that we are still in a time reserve on the basis of the events of today that are still in place to adopt such an important circulation package, which is completely in order if the normal legislative process for adopting European Union directives on this matter were to take place until the end of this year 2020. This was my finding, and it is in some way a response to committee discussions and resolutions that were adopted there, that I did not think it was necessary at all. I think we could have done this by the end of the year without adopting such a resolution. If I look at the current House press 676, which specifically concerns waste, the Waste Act is a key press that takes the form of our waste management. His amendment contains several topics whose final concept determines the Czech Republic's approach to circular economy. These topics are often publically discussed. The strongest issue - and we can probably agree on it with the Minister - is the landfill and all that has to do with it. According to the European Commission or the Directive, a maximum of 10 per cent or less of the total amount of municipal waste generated must be landfilled in 2035. In the Czech Republic we currently dump about 46 percent of municipal waste. This is well above the European Union's average. Furthermore, we must recycle 55 percent of municipal waste by 2025. By 2035 this number is 65 percent. Unfortunately, at present we will only recycle 37 percent and this is below the average of the European Union's states. The current amendment to the waste law should therefore aim to meet these objectives, and I am therefore the promoter and also support the cessation of landfilling in 2024. But I will comment on that later on in the defence of the amendments. Many municipalities and other waste management entities have tried to arrange for this. According to my information, they have transposed their waste management, and perhaps even a colleague of Mr Adamec would confirm that so-called waste management plans were created, which, even this year in some cities and municipalities, which took this responsibility, counted. One such waste plan was dealt with directly by me as a municipal politician. For this reason, this term is postponed to 2030 in the amendment to the Act. This is wrong, in my opinion, because the displacement of landfills for another six years also prolongs the negative effects of landfills on our environment. Moreover, this term does not give us enough room to make arrangements to achieve European objectives in time if there are any problems, because we will only have five years there. So, on the one hand, I understand that cities and municipalities want, there's some consensus for 2030, but we'll have five years to do it. It'll only be five years for everything to work. I therefore seek, by my amendments and by the support of my fellow Members' amendments, to maintain the original term, or to use the compromise term. Amendments to the deadline for landfilling, as has already been said, have gathered more in the committees. Specifically, it is the dates of 2024, 2727, 2028 and 2030 and even 2035. And my colleague tells me, even 2029. The difference of several years may not seem so significant at first glance, but we need to realise that landfills are not just an unsightly pile of waste, but they carry significant risks to the environment, and I think that, among other things, these four House prints are here. First of all, there is the so-called landfill gas made up of most of methane. And methane is a gas with a large greenhouse effect. Twenty times the CO2 effect, which also contains landfill gas. So it is easy to say that landfills thus contribute to climate change. If we do not limit landfilling, we will prolong the time when a large amount of greenhouse gases will be leaking into the atmosphere. Landfills also threaten to contaminate ground water and soil in case of poor technological security. Every year there are several hundred landfill fires that threaten the environment with toxic waste, after-fighting water is also contaminated, and no matter how much this extinguishing costs us finance. The rough estimate is that it's up to billions of crowns. I think these reasons too should be sufficient for us to try to reduce landfilling as soon as possible. Adding to this that usable waste that ends in landfills means unnecessary waste of raw materials, and the obligations arising from European legislation, I think there is no doubt that our efforts to end landfills should be maximum and should be a priority. That is why I was unpleasantly surprised that none of the proposals for the former end of landfill was supported by the Committee on the Environment. What I don't understand at all is that in the Committee on the Environment, where we who are interested in the environment sit, we will not support any proposal, while Mr Dolínek's proposal on the Economic Committee is supported, which ends in landfilling 2028. I don't get it. I thought we should be on that committee right now. I don't understand. The amendments differ, in addition to the proposed year, also by leaving, editing or releasing the so-called calorific value parameter. This parameter, on which there is a difference of opinion between the professional public, is set in the Act as follows: Since 2030, waste resulting from processing must not be stored in the landfill separately (?) concentrated waste and waste treatment outputs with a calorific value in the dry matter of more than 6,5 megajoule per kilogram. Here is the question of how the calorific value will be verified in the dry matter. Some experts also consider the calorific value in the dry matter to be a parameter that should be replaced by the calorific value of the normal sample. In view of the risks of landfills described above, in addition to the rapid disposal of landfills, I also support the monitoring of functional landfills, maximum technical security, and the waste received from them has been carefully recorded. The landfills are also linked to the newly set landfill fees. The Minister also mentioned that this is one of the factors that is being addressed and where a consensus has been reached. [[15.30 hours]] After careful consideration of the information available, I support its size as stated in the law. That is why, at the beginning, I said that I believe that the Ministry's negotiations were difficult, and in this particular case, I personally support what the law proposes. Fees should be levied for all waste received and it is not possible for us to see waste disposal as technical security, although there is no security. The amount of material used as technical security of the landfill, which is derived from the fee, is no reason to increase according to my opinion. We have a 25-percent increase in the law instead of the original 20, which is why I propose my amendment to return to 20 percent. In relation to the fees, I must remember the amendment tabled by Mr Staněk, which would in fact have caused a retroactive exemption from the fees to be paid, but unfortunately they were not. It's related to the so-called by the case of Čáslav. I guess most of us know her, and I don't have to comment on her anymore. According to the amendment, municipalities should be motivated to reduce landfilling and increase recycling so-called. Sorting discount, which is another factor that Minister Brabec here remembered. In my opinion, domestic and community composting, which is the ideal way of processing biodegradable waste, should also be included in this discount. It is used directly at the point of origin, which is the ideal condition. Moreover, no further transport is necessary, there is no transport burden, additional processing, technology, energy requirements, etc. Any citizen can compose de facto, it doesn't cost him anything, and it gets a home fertilizer. Therefore composting needs to be encouraged. However, the sorting discount is so far set in the law that domestic composting is not counted, and for municipalities that fail to reach the required sorting levels, it can act demotivatively, and therefore, in some way, I propose a change in its calculation. The diversion from landfilling is one thing, but the transfer of waste to recycling is another. To increase recycling, it is not enough just to set the targets to be achieved. And unfortunately, that's what the new law does. In order to increase recycling, we need to improve sorting, support the market for recyclable products and, above all, increase recycling capacity, which we lack in the Czech Republic. In the law we find the setting of sorting and recycling targets, but the real support for recycling is contained only very sporadically. A massive increase in recycling capacity and investment in recycling, treatment lines and so on, if I have the right information, we are not planning. However, with regard to the planned investments that I have discovered and I know they will be, there is a plan to build or expand at least six so-called. ZEVO, a facility for energy recovery of waste. This is specifically about Brno, Mělník - in Mělník there was even a referendum against it - Most, Malešice, České Budějovice, Opatovice, which are supposed to increase capacity not recycling, but the energy use of waste from the current 770 thousand tonnes per year to about 1.650 miles. tonnes per year. In addition, we can add existing and planned multifuel boilers to so-called. TAP with a capacity of about 180 thousand. tonnes. In 2018, we produced approximately 5,8 miles in the Czech Republic according to official data of the Ministry of Environment. tonnes of municipal waste, of which 2.8 million. tonnes of mixed municipal waste. If we manage to reduce this quantity by 50 per cent according to the European action plan for the circular economy, we are at 1.4 million. tonnes of mixed municipal waste. If we based on data on waste production not from the Ministry of the Environment, but from the Czech Statistical Office, these figures will be even lower. The reason is that in the Czech Republic we still have a continuing problem of double data on waste. The data reported by the Ministry of Environment differ. According to my information, they show more waste from data from the CSU. Given that we are reporting data for the Czech Republic to the EU and may also be based on various subjects in planning their waste management plans, and these are the figures that I mentioned a moment ago when the new ZEVO was created, I consider this to be a real problem that needs to be resolved by the Ministry at last. According to my information, the Ministry of the Environment is supposed to address this issue and, on the basis of my proposed resolution approved by the Committee on the Environment, the representatives of the Ministry of Environment have committed themselves to informing us by the end of this year of the situation and of the steps taken to remedy this problem. I think we can agree specifically on the double data that it would be a good idea for us to really fix them as soon as possible so that the system is uniform. If we go back to the mixed municipal waste produced, even if we send this entire amount of waste to energy use, some of it will be able to continue to be landfilled, namely 10 percent of the municipal waste, what this quantity and parameters will be in the case of the Czech Republic, will be seen according to the final form of the Waste Act. The planned capacity of ZEVO will not be fulfilled anyway. And here's my concern: if we have any data that we don't know is 100%, they draw from them, for example. companies that want to build Zevo right now, what happens if capacity is not filled? Then what happens if they need to secure the garbage in some way? One of my amendments is currently addressing the ban on the introduction of waste into the Czech Republic. So I'm afraid that recycled waste, which we will have to stop dumping under the new waste law, will be primarily transferred to these very facilities. Energy use is certainly better than landfilling, I certainly do not deny it. However, the upcoming ZEVO will be necessary constant so-called. feeding, which means that after their setting and investment - roughly my information is that one such facility is based on two to three billion crowns - their operators will need a constant supply of waste for their operation. And that's where there's a problem with the shipment of waste. I do not like this situation because, in my view, the maximum recyclable raw materials should have been recycled, and now there is a risk that energy will also be used for waste that could be used without problems in material use. For this reason, I submit a second reading amendment misleading the so-called combustion charge. This fee is lower than for landfilling, but it should aim to ensure that combustion is not the first and easiest way to get rid of waste after increasing landfill fees, after the ban on landfilling. I also submit a proposal to prevent imports of waste from abroad from energy use into the Czech Republic. Recycling should also be maximised by the use of new technologies, including chemical recycling technology. Therefore, I also propose to include in the law a method of chemical recycling by dissolution, so-called. Sollysis. This method allows material recycling to be otherwise difficult to recyclable and output materials are also suitable in quality for use in contact with food. I consider this particularly important and necessary. The way in which recycling could be supported was also dealt with by the expert group RecHelp, which the Minister certainly knows. I may not have been a member of this group, but I would like to appreciate her work here from this place, and I would like to remember just briefly the 11 points that this group has dealt with, and what their output was. Firstly, the reduction in VAT to recycled products and selected recyclings. Secondly, a reduction in the taxation of work in the recycling industry. The State's commitment to prefer a certain percentage in public procurement was proposed by 15 per cent of recycled products. Tax advantage for recycling under income tax. Support for recycling under subsidy programmes. The integration of the use of recycled materials and recyclates into technical standards. Define effective tools to motivate packaging and products manufacturers themselves, define ecodesign and ecomodulation. Preparation of standards for secondary plastics. Preparation of educational and educational material for the possibility of application of secondary raw materials of specific cases. The need to register the creation and use of secondary raw materials and, lastly, the taxation of primary raw materials. [[15.40 hours]] I have studied these four House prints quite thoroughly, and I do not know how many of these eleven things were incorporated there to support recycling - perhaps one, two, perhaps no more. It is a pity that the Ministry of the Environment did not deal with these points and thus the promotion of recycling is de facto lacking in the law. The diversion from the landfills is not enough, and we all know, and I believe the Minister knows that we need to deal mainly with recycling. Now, my fellow Members, I would like to present to you my amendments concerning what I mentioned at the outset, but there is much, much more. These were just the largest friction areas that even colleagues here remembered. My first amendment deals with the so-called pulp. The amendment proposes to supplement the list of waste recovery facilities which may be operated without the authorisation of the operation of the plant and the plant for the production of recycled pulp, for the production of paper, cardboard or for further material use in industry or outside energy use. The reason for submitting the amendment is to remedy the absence of other major plants working in the manufacture of products and waste, as defined in point 1 of Annex No. 4 government amendments to the Waste Act. This exhaustive list therefore includes plants used for the production of recycled pulp. The nature of the equipment used for pulp production is similar in relation to the environment to the nature of the equipment for paper or paperboard production. In addition, compared to paper and cardboard production, it has the advantage that there is no environmental burden in the treatment of recycled paper, as is the case in the production of paper or paperboard, since the pulp production is carried out by pulp pulp pulping with the so-called dry method. My second amendment concerns business waste. That is what I am also serving with my colleague, Chairman of the Committee, Dana Balcarová. The amendment addresses the collection of business waste in such a way that it is left to the voluntary participation of entrepreneurs. They can either participate voluntarily in the municipal system and arrange for the collection of trade waste on the basis of a written contract with the relevant municipality, or they must arrange for the disposal of the waste to the beneficiary. From the conclusions of the monitoring of sorted waste containers, specifically I have obtained data from Prague 6, it follows that the waste containers covered by the municipal system are also widely used by entrepreneurs to dispose of waste from their activities. However, entrepreneurs cannot use the municipal system to this extent unless they agree otherwise with the municipality. However, practical experience with the voluntary involvement of entrepreneurs in the municipal system shows that this option is used only minimally in practice and can therefore be stated that this institute has failed at all. Therefore, I propose to introduce the possibility for the municipality to lay down, by a generally binding decree, rules for the compulsory involvement of entrepreneurs in the municipal system. With regard to local conditions and the capacity of the municipal system, the municipality will choose the optimal option of compulsory involvement of entrepreneurs in the municipal system. The municipality may also set out in a generally binding decree a circle of entrepreneurs to which compulsory involvement in the municipal system will apply. It is proposed that municipalities should be able to exempt entrepreneurs from compulsory participation in the municipal system in the event of proof that an entrepreneur has provided for the transfer of all waste produced by a contract with another person entitled to take over the waste. The businessman would simply step out of the municipal system, it would not be mandatory. However, if the municipality intends to take even more account of the environmental aspects of waste management, it may tighten the condition for the withdrawal of entrepreneurs from the municipal system in a generally binding decree. In such a case, an entrepreneur must demonstrate that he is to ensure the management of all municipal waste, which is a guide, in a way that is superior to the treatment of municipal waste in the municipal system of the relevant municipality in the waste management hierarchy. The other amendment concerns the so-called anti-dumping duties. Supplementing to § 9 para. For the purpose of this Regulation, the following definitions apply: [[product in]] In accordance with the Government's draft Waste Act, the protected tyres are produced in a waste tyre treatment plant used exclusively for the renewal of the worn part of the tyres by the cold or hot treatment method listed in point 11 of Annex No. 4 of this Act, for which no permit is required for the operation of equipment and which normally manufactures final products which are subject to strict requirements of both national and European level and, of course, of the customers themselves, because they directly affect the safety of operation and the efficiency of loading and passenger mass transport. The protectors are subject to approval by the service each year and their use in the carriage of vehicles is strictly regulated by UNEC Regulation, which is the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe. The termination of the waste regime is therefore clearly clear from the very purpose of this installation and to process for each of the tyres accompanying documentation is, in my opinion, an unnecessary administrative requirement, and that is what my amendment addresses. The next amendment that I propose with my colleague Balcarová is the record of landfills. In this amendment, I propose that landfill operators must keep an interim record of the waste received in the system on the basis of the weighing of all waste received, made available in a way that allows remote access to inspection and regional authorities. On-line access to continuous waste records will help in the trend of waste flow settlement in the Czech Republic and will enable more effective control activities of the competent control authorities. Another thing that concerns a similar matter is the amendment to monitor landfills. At present, it is difficult to ensure that only waste to be accepted at the landfill is accepted. While it is possible to check the ongoing waste management record, it is often documented, for example, with a weekly delay from the inspection. Therefore, only waste that is stored in the landfill during the inspection can be controlled. It is therefore appropriate to lay down stricter conditions for the monitoring of landfill sites. I therefore propose mandatory surveillance of landfills. Records captured by the camera system must be kept for 30 days and made available at all times to the Czech Environmental Inspection in a way that allows remote access. Monitoring of storage by cameras is mandatory, for example, in neighboring Poland. Moreover, many storage sites are already monitored by cameras. That's what we've been researching. Other problems with landfills are environmental accidents. Two critical aspects are fires and damage to the sealing layers of the landfill and the subsequent threat to the bottom waters in the vicinity of the landfills. The prevention of fires would significantly help the mandatory introduction of thermocouples connected to the Fire Rescue Corps. Fires could thus be captured at an early stage of formation and extinguished before they could cause more serious damage to the environment. The use of so-called thermocouples has long been recommended by representatives of the Fire Rescue Corps. In the field of sealing layer quality control, and thus the prevention of leakage of pollutants into the bottom waters, it would be beneficial to tighten electronic leakage monitoring of sealing film, in the sense that leakage checks would be carried out at regular intervals. My next amendment addresses the so-called waste regime. In the absence of environmental threats, re-use is the best way to prevent waste generation. If the law, as proposed, were interpreted strictly, then all repairs, checks and so on would fall within the definition of re-use preparation. For example, a demanding administration would need to be carried out in repair companies, and this could make the process of repairing, especially in smaller entities, quite difficult. In the case of cleaning repairs and so on, where the environment is not at risk, I personally see no reason for this activity to be carried out under the waste regime in the waste facility. It is now common practice, for example, that boxes are used again for sending new consignments. In the current legislative setting, this cannot be done legally outside the waste regime. [[15.50 hours]] The next amendment that I propose with my colleague, Dana Balcarová, concerns composting. The municipalities are obliged to achieve a high level of sorting of municipal waste. However, municipalities must not be motivated to sort waste even at the cost of illogical steps. Such illogical and non-ecological steps could be the interference of domestic and community composting and the attempt to sort out until then on the site of composted waste. In order to avoid these efforts and municipalities continue to support domestic and community composting, domestic composting must be counted among waste sorted. In a similar way, domestic composting is already counted among the sorted municipal waste already in Austria. I was thinking about the committee there, that it's only in one precinct, so I wouldn't really take an example of that. But it's also good practice in Italy. And it is from this model that we have taken an example. The Italian model can be derived from the creation of the methodology itself. The Ministry or the municipalities themselves will set the conditions by decree, which will regulate domestic composting. Compassionate citizens voluntarily register their composter, which with its parameters will be based on a decree in their village. The municipality then shows the amount of composite biowaste on its territory based on the calculation of the average volume of compost that is produced in the composter according to its size and the number of citizens using it for each registered composter. Another amendment addresses my already mentioned imports of waste. Imports of waste from abroad to the Czech Republic for incineration in the incinerators of ZEVO are not permitted in the long term. Section 47 (1) (a) However, 4 imports of waste for energy recovery in the municipal waste incinerator allow. This threatens the purposeful import of waste into the Czech Republic and associated problems. The proposed amendment repeals the exemption from the prohibition on imports of waste and repeals imports of waste for energy recovery in the municipal waste incinerator. I've already had a debate on this, and it's the numbers. The point is, if we have ZEVO and they're above capacity, they're going to need capacity, they're not going to have it around where the capacity will come from, and so on. I'm afraid it's from abroad. Therefore, this amendment. The other amendment that I am proposing with my colleague, Balcarová, concerns so-called sollolysis. In order to meet the ambitious climate European objectives, but in particular the targets for recycling, much more waste plastic waste needs to be recycled. Technologies such as pyrolysis, plasma and sollysis are considered so-called chemical recycling technologies within the material recycling category and appropriately complement the so-called mechanical recycling technologies. It is the production of new PET bottles from used PET bottles, manufacture of plastic fences or roof tiles from recycling etc. Chemical recycling technology helps solve a problem where many plastics are difficult to recyclable or non-recyclable today and end up in landfills or in incinerators. In the Czech Republic, solutions and processing capacities for so-called chemical recycling technologies are already prepared, such as pyrolysis, plasma and solvolysis technologies of plastic or other materials and can also be municipal waste. The law in Annex 2 contains chemical recycling using pyrolysis and plasma. In order to maintain technological neutrality, it is still necessary to include the solstice technology, so-called dissolution with the products used as the original raw material. She was just missing. Chemical recycling can fill the gap in the recycling loop of plastics, save valuable resources and contribute to the creation of a low-carbon circular economy. Chemical recycling processes are able to process contaminated or mixed plastic waste which cannot be recycled by mechanical recycling or dissolution, which would otherwise end up in combustion or landfill. These technologies allow the use of plastic waste as raw material for the production of new chemicals and plastics, the quality of which is the same as in the production from the original sources, which allows their use in demanding applications such as contact with food and food packaging. Another advantage is the possibility of using chemical recycling to capture and separate problematic impurities, so-called substances of extreme concern, which can be present in plastic at the end of life. Another amendment that we are proposing with my colleague Balcarová concerns the so-called combustion fee. The extension of the landfill fee is also recommended by both the OECD and the European Commission to the Czech Republic for the energy recovery fee. The European Union is promoting the waste incineration charge as one of the major economic instruments supporting the achievement of the objectives of the circular economy. According to the Waste Framework Directive, the Member States of the European Union must ensure 65 per cent of the rate of actual recycling of municipal waste and, according to the action plan for the circulatory economy, the European Commission plans to reduce the production of mixed municipal waste in half. And economic instruments should contribute to this. Moreover, the European Commission added ZEVO to the list of unsustainable activities alongside coal and nuclear projects and refused any support. There are seven countries in the European Union that have already introduced fees for the incineration and energy use of waste. They are Belgium, Denmark, Spain, Portugal, France, the Netherlands or Austria. The amount of fees in these States is between around EUR 7 to 20 per tonne and the introduction of the combustion fee is listed as a recommended economic instrument directly in Annex IVa to the Transposed Waste Directive 2018/851. Therefore, I propose to introduce this fee in the Czech Republic at the time of the end of the landfill of usable waste. It should serve to ensure that recyclable waste is primarily recycled. I will now get to several amendments concerning landfilling. Since I have signed the amendment tabled by Mrs Pekarová Adamová, I have tabled an amendment which addresses the ban on landfilling to 2024 with the calorific value parameter. In the Czech Republic, up to 2.5 million tonnes of mixed municipal waste in secured landfills will end annually without any previous treatment. However, the Czech Republic has long failed to comply with Articles 5 and 6a of the landfill directive. As a corrective measure of this condition, in 2014, the ban on landfilling has been imposed on legislation since 2024. The draft Waste Act now proposes to postpone the ban on landfilling until 2030. However, from one tonne of untreated mixed municipal waste, 100 to 300 cubic metres of landfill gas containing methane will be produced, 30 to 80 per cent of which will escape into the surrounding area and participate in climate change. To dump waste without any adjustment by 2030 means to create 1.7 to 5.2 billion cubic meters of landfill gas. It escapes from the surrounding area, just to imagine, 0.5 to 4.2 billion cubic meters, i.e. about 10 million tons of CO2 equivalent. Therefore, I propose to maintain the original term and to put an end to the landfill of usable waste in 2024. Given that as the Ministry of the Environment tried to communicate and tried to find a compromise, I also communicated with experts and asked how it was set up in the past, how the communications were going, what agreements were there. And we generally agreed that 2027 was mentioned in the past. It was a year that was proposed to representatives of cities and municipalities. And it was also a year that they tolerated back then. Therefore, my next amendment addresses the ban on landfilling by 2027, also with the calorific value parameter. This amendment is identical to the one I commented on a moment ago, but it is different from the year proposed. I realise that some entities are not yet prepared for the term 2024 and it is possible that the original term will no longer have support. Therefore, as I said a moment ago, I propose this compromise year. [[16.00 hours]] Since I designed 2027 with a calorific value parameter, but I support 2024 myself without a calorific value parameter, the Ministry also had to understand that my changers are all possible variants to try to do something to limit landfilling before the proposed and probably possibly approved 2030. Therefore, my next amendment addresses the ban on landfilling by 2027 only without the calorific value parameter. What it is, I've already commented before. Another amendment is addressed by the so-called technical security of the landfill. The maximum amount of waste stored as material for the technical security of landfills which are exempted from the landfill charge has increased by 5% in the government bill compared to the current law in force. And as I said at the outset, I do not think there is any reason for us to have 25 per cent there, and therefore my amendment returns 20 per cent of technical security without charge. When we look at the final report on the impact assessment of regulation, it shows that the share of technical security of landfills ranged between 16,4 and 27.1 % between 2009 and 2017 and the amount of TZS was below 20 % in 2009, and between 2015 and 2017. That's why I don't see why we should increase to 25 percent. My next amendment, and at this point, the last one I am presenting to this House press, is so-called. an amendment dealing with a sorting discount. I am proposing this amendment with my fellow Member Mrs Krutáková and with my fellow Member Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Like Mr Schiller's amendment, this proposal simplifies the process of charging waste storage charges to landfills and should motivate municipalities to increase the sorting of municipal waste. Government proposal so-called Sorting discounts may not be sufficiently incentive for many municipalities. Municipalities that fail to reach the required sorting levels will always pay the full rate for the storage of usable waste into the landfill. Therefore, if the municipality finds that it is not able to reach the specified levels, it has no incentive to significantly improve waste sorting on its territory. Moreover, in particular, smaller communities that prevent the formation of biowaste by feeding or domestic and community composting have a problem without counting biowaste at all to achieve high levels of sorting. Therefore, I propose that the discount should be based on the production of mixed municipal waste and bulky waste converted per capita. The great advantage of the amendment is easier control than in the case of a government proposal and other amendments. The Government's proposal and other amendments motivate municipalities to try to count on sorted components of municipal waste and materials that are unfortunately not waste. The problem with other amendments is also the counting of domestic composting, which is not actually possible to check and would have to be solved by estimation or gross calculation. On the contrary, this amendment motivates municipalities to find the least expensive ways to divert biodegradable landfill waste. These include the prevention of waste generation, such as feeding, domestic and community composting or mulching of grasses. The great advantage of the amendment is that the discount is derived from the production of mixed municipal waste and bulky waste, that it also applies to municipalities which transfer most of their mixed municipal waste and bulky waste to waste recovery facilities. According to this amendment, all municipalities will have the incentive to reduce the production of mixed municipal and bulk waste. It is important that the motivation for a higher level of waste sorting applies to all municipalities if the whole Czech Republic is to achieve European recycling targets. Another reason why the discount should depend on the production of mixed municipal waste and bulky waste is the European Commission's proposed goal of reducing the production of mixed municipal waste by 2030 in half, as I mentioned at the outset. The total quantity of waste covered by the discount in the calendar year shall be calculated as a multiple of the population of the municipality and the amount of waste per capita shown in the table for each calendar year in which the fee period occurs. Colleagues, colleagues, these were all my amendments to the House of Press 676. Thank you for your attention and I will then sign up for them in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u17	Thank you, too. I will first introduce the House to note cards, but there are two applications for factual comments. Mr Adamec and Mr Holík. Before Mr Adamec gets to the microphone, I will introduce the House with note cards. Mrs Malá apologizes to us between 15 a.m. and 19.45, i.e. until the end of the day, due to illness, Mr Lipavskýý apologizes from today's meeting from 17 a.m. to the end of the session for work reasons, Mr Zlesák apologises between 16.30 and 19 p.m. due to illness and Mr Jaroslav Dvořák apologises from today until 19. 6. due to illness. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u18	Thank you, Mr President. If I make it, I'll sign off on the general debate. I would like to correct the words of the rapporteur Schiller, because the citizen and the municipality cannot choose where the waste will go, the aim is 65 percent recycling in the terms that we have set. And I'm a little upset about the conflicting logic I've heard from my colleague Elfmark. Of course, I know we're not ready for the recycling, we don't have quality new, modern sorting lines, it's in the beginnings. But on the other hand, saying we're gonna kill those dumps right now seems illogical to me. By the way, I recommend looking at some high-quality modern landfill, visiting it, because then it could not be said that the methane is leaking into the air because it is a high-quality energy source and it is used, by the way, used to drive cogeneration units etc., to produce electricity. So you need to say it all. As far as the incinerators are concerned, yes, it will be driven to the incinerators, I understand. On the other hand, our percentage of waste disposal in the incinerators is still even lower than the rest of the world, so here I see room for the incinerators. And, of course, when the incinerator starts, it needs to be fed. That's right. On the other hand, the target is not incinerators. Maybe settle the environment with the incinerators. But the target is 65 percent recycling, I point out. And that's why it doesn't add up from what I hear here. And here was the question of what the citizen wanted at the beginning. Well, I'll tell you what a citizen wants. Citizen wants quality, efficient and especially cheap service, so let's act accordingly!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u19	Thank you, and with another factual remark, Mr Holík is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u20	Mr President, Minister, I have listened very carefully to my colleague Elfmark's report. I have 99 percent to agree with that. I listened very carefully to the 11 motivational programs. I'm missing one. We should reeducate the current generation and raise a new generation so that this generation is ready to use recycling resources. I'll explain it with my own experience. My daughter lived in England for a few years. When she came back, we were buying envelopes and cards before Christmas. And I was surprised: Why, please, are you reaching for a brown ugly envelope that is more expensive? - She looked at me like I was stupid and said, 'Cause it's from recycled material. And that's how we should think. You have mentioned here, my colleague, through the President, the anti-dumping. I am fully in favour, protects mainly the freight tires. But from each tyre, it's cut from about 5 to 10 kilos of crushing. Do we have processing for them? [[16.10 hours]] And then one last thing, I already mentioned it. We need to motivate people. I myself live in a village, pay 500 kroner per person automatically, take out a kilo of waste, or take out 50 kilos. If he doesn't do this -- obviously I'm gonna drive it, I'm living alone a mile and a half from downtown, I'm gonna take it there, but a second person, why would I do that? I'll give you $500 one way or another, and what would I sort it out for? So we should do something here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u21	Thank you. Those were all factual points at the moment. We are also apologized for today's meeting by Mr Jan Volný between 15 and 19 o'clock, also due to illness. And now Mrs Krutáková is in the debate, Mr Adamec will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, honourable Members. I certainly won't be as long or as long as my colleague Elfmark. I think that a lot of what he said I can agree with, and that is why I will immediately proceed to introduce you to my four amendments that I am making to the Government's Waste Bill. The first two amendments concern the calorific value, which has also been mentioned here, and the second two then the landfill fee and so-called. sorting discounts. The first amendment, which is in the system under number 5767, concerns calorific value, as I have already mentioned. The proposed draft law prohibits the disposal of waste on landfills whose calorific value in the dry matter is higher than 6.5 megajoule per kilogram, since it considers these wastes to be usable, but it does not know the EU legislation and makes the draft law significantly more stringent because the calorific value parameter is set at a flat and pointless low value. I therefore propose to amend this issue in order not to prevent the operation of the necessary equipment for further sorting and treatment, for example, of municipal waste. The second amendment merely replaces the words "calorific value in dry matter" for the term "calorific value in normal sample" and we remain at 6.5 megajoule per kilogram. In detail, the two amendments are described in the explanatory memorandum, which is part of the document. As regards the other two documents, the other two amendments, these are proposals concerning the sorting discount and the amount of the landfill fee. These are both two terms, which have been resonating a lot lately, which are discussed a lot and which are also the subject of negotiations in particular for municipalities, whether it is the Union of Towns and Communities or the Association of Local Authorities. There has been agreement in certain values or in the proposals for a sorting discount, however, as I may have had the opportunity to get acquainted with the text in the magazine Industrial Ecology today, so as regards the amount of the landfill fee, unfortunately there is also some disproportion in opinions between municipalities, cities and, on the other hand, between the Chamber of Economics and the Confederation of Industry. I think there will definitely be a lot of discussion around this level of landfill fee. The House document 5751 discusses, as I said before, the amount of the sorting discount and the fee rate. In response to the current situation with regard to the pandemic of coronavirus, which also affected waste management, namely municipal waste management in municipalities, I propose a shift in the calculation of the sorting discount in relation to the fee period of 2023.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u23	I understand you, Madame, and I will invite your colleagues who are discussing something to do so outside the O.R. If there's a minor turnout, there's more to it than that. Please try to continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u24	Thank you. I also propose a change in the rate of the landfill charge, taking into account the level of sorting achieved, so that municipalities have certain capping levels, thus not completely lost the right to a discount while being further motivated to increase the rate of sorting municipal waste. I propose to provide for a more moderate increase in the rate of landfill fee for recovered waste for each year, so that instead of the target amount of CZK 1,850 in 2030, which is proposed by the Ministry of the Environment, the amount was CZK 1,450, because even lower rates of charges will still be sufficiently increased and will meet the desired purpose, i.e. the diversion of waste from landfill, without unnecessary burden on agents or municipalities and citizens. The amendment under number 5750 is again devoted to the sorting discount mechanism and is based on the so-called Slovak model. The percentages of sorting discounts are designed to be too high for our municipalities. In 2021, for example, this is already 55 percent of the separately concentrated components from the total amount of municipal waste, in 2022 already 60, or an increase by 5 percent year on year. For such a high percentage, and therefore even for a sorting discount, the municipalities in the Czech Republic can hardly reach. Now not even the winner in waste sorting, the city of Jihlava, can reach it. Another serious problem with the solution contained in the law is the possibility of corruption risk, as the main motivation of the municipalities is that the annual results of sorting, as they say, should come out well, since it can be reflected in the cost for the next year by several million increases in the whole system, when the municipality is missing, for example, one percent to achieve the goal. Moreover, the provision, which is only to be transitional, actually addresses the adjustment for a relatively long period of time, i.e. a fee period up to 2029. My amendment is therefore comprehensive and regulates more issues concerning this key economic instrument. All my amendments are recorded in the system with detailed reasons and I will then sign up for them in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u25	I, too, thank you, and Mr Adamec is next in the general debate, Mr Schiller will be prepared. Before Mr Adamec reaches the microphone, I will once again introduce the House with a note. Mr Kobza apologizes to us today between 16.30 and 23.45 hours due to a doctor's visit. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u26	Yes, thank you. Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, I have already said a lot here and maybe I would repeat here why I think we should not move forward that year to end the landfills. And even knowing that maybe as a village that has a landfill in its territory, so I know its operation, I know how it's technically secured, I know how it takes place there, but I do, and here I am stressing it, and here again I am saying that this bill is no longer, a long time ago, that is prehistoric, not a fight between incinerators and landfills. We all know that the garbage dumps are gonna end, the landfillers know it, and now they're just gonna turn their business into something else. We also know that the capacity of the incinerators is some in the Czech Republic, that it is necessary to raise the percentage, and then, of course, let's talk about whether we want to support more recycling, and we should do it according to the European proposal, if the incinerator doesn't burden itself with some combustion charge when I call it that. But I think it's about to show the time that right now is really not ready for the transformation. Let's face it. We cannot say in one breath that we simply want to speed up the closure of the landfills, on the other hand we say that the Czech Republic is not prepared for this in anything. There's no incinerators, there's no incinerators, there's no logistics, we're actually missing modern lines that can separate. It also needs to be said that how many times the material that goes to recycling, so today it's not like they're going to pay for it like it was before, but that you're going to pay hard for it, and in the end, I think this way of thinking that we're saying on the one hand, "it's a big problem," on the other hand, we're talking about ecology, the environment, and then we're going to get the funding. And I think that speeding up is just gonna be a problem, because it's gonna cost us more money as a result. All of them. That's my concern I'm talking about. [[16.20 hours]] I understand, of course, that we are simply a modern advanced state in an advanced Europe, that we have some environmental responsibilities, we have them to ourselves, to us who are currently living here on this planet in this state, we have them to those future generations. I understand everything, but it's all meant to be connected. And I just don't see the continuity here at this point. And I understand why the Ministry, in agreement with those professional candidates or those who are in these fields, came to the date 2030. I confess that I was personally surprised by the proposal of my colleague Dolínek, who passed on the Economic Committee. That's where I assumed it shouldn't just go through for these reasons. And when we talk about it, let's motivate the citizens. Well, it's nice, we're growing a new generation, we're gonna tell them how to behave. But you know, I have this feeling that a lot of people like to talk about ecology until they have to reach into their wallet and pay for it. That's the way it always is, and it has to be paid. Let's face it. And here's a way to make it hurt as little as possible. At least that's how I feel. But if we don't do that, it's just gonna be wrong. I will make an amendment in a detailed debate which concerns, I would say, perhaps little things. It's for a colleague of Stanjura who uploaded it into the system, and it's an exemption from the tax on the remediation of old environmental burdens. It is not normal for the state to pay, because the original owner no longer exists, it is not traceable, there are also fees for landfilling during the disposal of ecological loads. I think that the proposal is reasonable and actually it will release funds to the State Environmental Fund, which would actually end up in those charges, to something completely different, which will be significantly more beneficial to the environment. So I'm saying again, we all know that the way it's set here is right in the global. But I say, and I always say that the devil is always hidden in the details. And even good intentions, and I have no doubt about them, the good intentions - just the way to hell is paved with good intentions. And I think we're really supposed to do this one step at a time, and we're not supposed to say here on the one hand: we're not ready for this, but he's gonna be the gallows guy, so everybody's gonna try. Well, they won't, so it won't. And on the other hand, we're saying that it needs to be shut down and just put a stop to the landfill. Plus, at a time when the capacity of the incinerators isn't enough, if I say it very simply. And for recycling, I beg you, very carefully. But otherwise, the target is the recycling of the 65 percent in 2035 or how it is in the bill's proposal. So these are things that just don't work out, and here you have to think about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u27	Thank you. There are two factual points. The first is Mr Dolínek, then Mr Elfmark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u28	Thank you. I think it is a good thing that Mr. and Mayor Adamec have quite clearly described why he is going to do so and why he is going to do so. It's probably very good that the discussion is open like this. In other laws, the discussion is often not open. We're talking in signs, and here we go on the essence, and I think it's very good for the decision-making. Because when he decides, it'll be clear what we've gone in, which direction, and it's also a rather important decision for ten years. However, to be fair, I'll say what I said on the committee. And I am glad that it was finally approved, and surprisingly, then, on the Economic Committee. I was pleasantly surprised, too. I said that, in my opinion, the Ministry of the Environment is not ambitious enough, that the ban on landfilling should be given earlier, and that those mayors for whom I have an understanding should, on the contrary, have come up with an amendment. And I understand that the Ministry has come up with a compromise that has negotiated with waste makers, with landfills, with municipalities, and has already come up with something like that in good faith. But to me, that's bad news for the public. The report was supposed to be - we came up with an expert opinion, keeping the original term as close as possible. And we here in the House could - and then the Minister could consider it after the discussion and the government could, whether they would support it or not, the mayor's arguments about why it should move forward. And that was the reason that I said there and which, I dare say, most of the members of the committee finally acknowledged and supported the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u29	Thank you. Now, Mr Elfmark, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u30	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to respond to Mr Adamec's colleague through Mr President. About the gas in the dump. We all know that they are gassed in some way, but it must also be said that this is not always a 100% success. You didn't say that here. And as far as I'm concerned, sometimes it's 20 percent, sometimes 50, sometimes 70. And that's the 10 million tons I've been remembering. And in order to have this discussion, I will immediately forward to my colleague Adamc a technical letter where this is being discussed so that he knows exactly what it is. But I wanted to ask all Members who are also long-term mayors, it doesn't matter if they are big cities or municipalities, but why, when the ban on landfilling was announced in 2014 in 10 years, in 2024, why now everyone is fighting so vehemently to extend it for another six years. I haven't gotten this information from anyone yet. Is there anyone who can repeat this thing or answer me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u31	Thank you. At this point, I have no further factual points. So, please, Mr Schiller, Mrs Balcarová will be ready in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u32	Thank you for the floor. Well, I have a lot of notes, but I guess I'll get back to them in the end. And I think I'd like to answer your question now, Mr. Elfmark. It's very simple why the communities want it. First of all, they don't have another option, they don't know what to do with the garbage, that's one thing. And the other thing is money. Because really those municipalities, if they have landfills on their territory, they're obviously getting money out of it. That's why. And remember that 2028 and 2030 are still a compromise. We're still between 2020, 2024 and 2020, 2035, what was loaded, so we definitely found a compromise. I will read five amendments to which I will sign up in a detailed debate, but I will introduce here, or I will focus on one that I, colleague Eva Fialová, colleague Adam Kalous, colleague Marie Pěnčíková and colleague Ondřej Babka. And that's the sorting discount. She's the sorting discount, or the amendment is set to such basic things, and that's simplicity. Today we have heard from Mr Stanjura, in essence, that we should focus on reducing bureaucracy and simply trying to save ourselves. And it is this amendment that solves this. It is good for another thing to be said, and that the sorting discount, as presented here, she is not eligible, she is motivational. That means if you're getting out here and you're saying that some communities can't reach it, then they have to try to reach it. That is why this amendment is set in a completely different way from the original government. I'll only introduce you to a piece. Perhaps you can read the rest in a detailed report. I just want to pretend that my colleagues and I worked with the Ministry of Environment on this, which was incredibly helpful to us and provided us with all the professional assistance, all the data. We even consulted the Ministry of Finance and the Union of the City and the municipality, and they agreed to this amendment and it can be said that they gave it the green light. According to the current law, it has an obligation to levy a fee from the originators and to pay it to the recipients of the landfill operator. The problem with the current levy collection is that landfill operators bear no financial responsibility in the event that they do not collect a fee from the originators, and such situations are becoming increasingly frequent. At present, it is not clear whether or not the unselected fee can be charged to the originators from which it was collected. However, the proposed method of charging is very complex and brings unnecessary burden to waste agents, landfill operators and administrative authorities. According to the impact assessment, the set method will require 67 new employees at the State Environmental Fund, 28 new customs officials and 3 new CENIA workers. Total wage costs are expected to reach almost 70 million crowns a year. In this respect, it seems to be the most appropriate to maintain the current approach, where the fee is levied and paid by the landfill operator. That's probably the basis of what was there. And if we look at the sorting discount, it was appropriate to set up an obligation for the landfill operator to pay the fee even if it was not collected from the producer. This amendment is based on the fact that it is not necessary to increase the charge on waste that must be placed on the landfill because it is not available to them under the current conditions of appropriate recovery. The proposal allows the municipality to deposit in each calendar year part of the waste that would normally be included in the partial charge for recovered waste - in the vast majority of the mixed municipal waste and bulky municipal waste - for the current amount of the charge, i.e. CZK 500 per tonne, up to the quantity specified in Annex No. 12. At the full rate for the storage of usable waste, usable waste shall be charged from the time the quantities referred to in Annex 12 are exceeded. [[16.30 hours]] In short, just this amendment, I will not read it whole, but it is, just briefly, I will introduce you to it - all municipalities, all of them, all of them into one, will actually have a limit in 2020/2021 up to 200 kg per person, they will pay 500 CZK per tonne, and if they exceed these 200 kg per person, then they will pay 800 CZK per tonne. That means it's motivational that it depends on the community and the citizens of the community, how much they're going to recycle, how much they're going to fill the black trash cans. If they can just keep up for six months, they'll have six months, someone can hold up for a whole year. And it really depends on the municipalities. The system is set by reducing this limit by 10 kg each year, so in 2021 it's going to be 200 kg, 2020 - 190 kg, 180 kg, 170 and this is how it's set up until 2030. That's why we can actually say it's slow so those communities can prepare for it so everyone else can prepare, so we're actually all counting on the 2030 deadline. That's why if we lower it, we'd have to adjust the sorting discount, it would have to count everything. Perhaps it would be more expensive at a time when what actually happened to us now, I think the burden of even municipalities paying more for waste would be incredible, so I think that if we really go down the milder path, we're gonna help them. Even if we go to meet the targets, we'll help them. Then there's another situation where really those communities are going to have citizens who have biodegradable waste or what you want to do with composting, but it's hard to measure, so it's just that it doesn't count, because the compost - it's an amazing thing, we've been to some of the seminars here, but there's also some things missing that nobody wants the compost eventually, even though we're going to support it beautifully in those cities. In smaller towns, I think it's gonna be a problem. But that'll be in the next possible notes I have here about recycling, VAT, ZEV. Maybe one more thing, I've already said it on all the committees I've been to. We use the word "incinerator" here - and perhaps for citizens to do it too - to use the word "incinerator." She's not really an incinerator. 'Cause then, as usual, the activists are gonna come in and say, "You're gonna burn this place, it's gonna stink in here." So just don't. It is indeed a resource for the energy recovery of waste. There's no incinerator that we could run through the waste chimney without any use. So if someone's in the incinerator sounds here, they're probably thinking of the very source of energy waste recovery.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u33	Thank you. And next up, Mrs Balcarová is enrolled in the debate and Mr Kott will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u34	Well, thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my predecessor for making a nice recording of me with the incinerators, because when I say the incinerator, I mean the incinerator. I really mean it. To think that if we burn the waste, we get energy that didn't cost anything, that's really very naive, because the production of the materials cost more energy than we get by burning it. If we're gonna make a PET bottle, we're gonna make it, it's gonna cost us more energy than we get by burning it. This means that the energy recovery of waste is a nice name. Likewise, it is very nice to say that the energy from waste - when it is said this way, it just sounds very attractive, it seems that it is simply something that is trendy and that will help us both with lack of energy or with the solution of energy, and we will get rid of waste in fact. But it is rather a solution that is not modern, it is not supported either from the point of view of the OECD or from the point of view of the European Commission, which, on the contrary, want to introduce quite high fees, or they propose that waste incineration fees be introduced, and they understand the introduction of those charges as a very good economic tool to actually withdraw from the incineration. We, as an environmental committee, were visiting Scandinavian countries, which are known to be very ecological and environmental, but as far as incinerators are concerned, we saw the implications of dealing with municipal waste with an exhibition of incinerators. To this day, these countries have great problems in some locations with having an incinerator that needs to have something that can burn, that is, waste, and they are actually putting a lot of pressure on them to have the waste, not to recycle it, because it needs the waste to be able to burn, and it can actually produce and pay for the acquisition investment, so that the investment is actually effective for it to come back. And I don't think that's quite a happy approach. And if we want to build incinerators in the Czech Republic, which will then solve the problem and will need feeding for their furnaces, then whoever proposes this should realize that in the future they are having a rather big problem. Our aim should mainly be to achieve recycling targets and move in that direction ambitiously. I am very glad that waste legislation finally came to our Committee on the Environment, and we were looking forward to it, that a circular economy, or a circular economy, will finally be set up. Some of my previous speakers here said that this is mainly an economic matter, it is an economic matter, and I completely agree with that. It's a lot about the economy, it's about production, because we're actually interested in the raw materials for production. This is the goal of this whole concept of circular economy - saving raw materials. This needs to be realized that we are concerned with the raw materials that are scarce. Europe will face a raw material crisis in the future, because the raw materials will simply run out. If we learn to use them to the maximum possible extent and good faith, then we have a great chance of simply reducing the shortage, but we will recycle at the maximum. I was going to say that I'm definitely against new incinerators being built. At this point, we have about four incinerators burning 18 percent of the municipal waste. I think it's a pretty big number and we should really try to go the way of maximum recycling. And the second thing I'd like to focus on is a ban on landfilling in 2024. I will therefore support, or I have applied to the amendments by František Elfmark and Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u35	Thank you. And with a factual remark, Mr Schiller will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u36	Well, thank you. I just have to return the tape like, unfortunately. I don't think we're ever gonna understand what the energy recovery of waste is and what the incinerator is. I'll take it from practice. I'm from Most. We, you might say, have district heating of three cities where we drown with coal. We're all pushing, and it's right that we're going to drift away from coal. And maybe I personally see the use of the energy waste just by replacing the coal. And I don't see anything wrong with it. We're all saying it's so wrong to burn it, but it's definitely better for me to use the garbage energy than bury it in the ground. And if I don't have a recycling tip, and I don't know what else to make out of that material, and it gives me energy, it's not bad for me, and I'm just gonna keep those people's comforts warm, warm water and electricity on the basis of getting rid of the waste. And the technology isn't built like there's really gonna be black smoke up there, and I don't know what it's all about. It's just that it's modern technology that you can say from the incinerator -- and you've probably also seen that there's actually pure steam coming out of the incinerator, and I don't know why we couldn't use it. So I don't see anything wrong with it, but I understand that we may never understand each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u37	Well, thank you. And Mr Válek will now respond with a point of fact. Then I see Mrs Balcarová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u38	I'm terribly sorry, because I haven't spoken in two days, I have withdrawal. [[Fun and laughter in the hall.]] But I have a question. That's an extremely interesting debate, I don't understand it at all, but I'm taking notes amazing. I have two questions. Question and comment. The first question: When the landfills are cancelled, where the building rubble or gravel will be exported, or these things that are exported to the landfills, cannot be burned, cannot be completely recycled, so only if it is somehow thought out? That's my question. I'm sorry, I don't want to upset anyone. And then there's an evil remark. I really like the sorting out that's out there. But then I did what I did to see what was inside. So there's the same thing in everyone. The fact that there's only plastic in one of them, in one piece of paper. I don't know. Try to look at the ones in front of us, the ones in there, the ones in there. It's not like there's something sorted out, it's a deep mistake. It looks like it from the outside, it's completely different inside. One thing is what it looks like from the outside, and the other thing is the reality from the inside. By which I greet my daughter because our baskets are glued, and when I throw in the wrong basket, it's such a soda, you can't imagine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u39	Thank you. Now, Mrs Balcarová, with a point of fact. Then I received a report from the Minister, with priority rights, I suppose. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to point out that I am certainly not against heating plants closing because we are drifting away from coal, but I think that burning waste is not the only way to go. That there are ways that are more efficient and more sustainable. I admit that now technology is such that really from the chimneys of heat plants or the chimneys of incinerators there is no poisonous gas or fumes, but my point is what goes in. And there's materials or raw materials that can be used differently and that someone sees only as waste. I guess I'd just end my act. My point really is that when an incinerator is built, how long it has to work to pay for the investments that are invested in it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u41	Thank you. Now Minister Brabec from the position of plaintiff. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u42	Thank you. I, too, am older, I have many comments, but I will only respond very quickly to my colleague, Mr President, by your means. First of all, a ban on landfilling doesn't mean that landfills end completely. Germany has been banned from landfilling since 2009 and, of course, things that are not biodegradable, in some way energy-enabled or recyclable are being dumped further. That means the ashes, the slag will, of course, continue to dump. Secondly, the very building waste, I have to say, it does not, of course, count to the communal, it is many times more than the communal and there is a great demand for it, because the building waste is becoming increasingly a very valuable raw material, which can now be recycled very well, asphalt, various concrete things that are then made into mixtures. That's just an explanation. Then your sigh, thank you for it, because I have noticed the same thing, and I must say in my own ranks that when we compare the quality of sorting in the Chamber of Deputies with the classic quality of sorting in color containers, we have to lose hard at points like the House and we have to think about each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u43	Thank you for the challenge. Now, if no one else claims to react from the point of view, then Mr Kott is entered in the general debate. Mr. Babka will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to introduce you to my two amendments to this press. The first one concerns the use of sewage sludge on agricultural land. Such a small justification. According to Article 68 (2) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) The Member State concerned shall inform the Commission and the other Member States of the measures taken to comply with this Decision. This is not an obligation in the current Waste Act. The reasoned report to the House press number 676, without further explanation, merely states that it is a novelty, the introduction of the approval of the sludge use programme by the ÚKZÚZ. In my opinion, however, it should be noted that this novelty will make the treatment of sludge from sewage treatment plants very difficult in practice. In particular, there will be a significant burden on the applicant for the approval of the sludge application programme. The whole system would also cease to be flexible as a result of this new administrative procedure and fail to respond in real time to changes essential to the processing of programmes. In doing so, it should be stressed that the issue of sludge management is dealt with in the draft law by a number of obligations from the phase of sludge treatment to the detailed obligations and prohibitions in the use of sludge on agricultural land. The importance of the newly introduced approval programme for the use of sludge in the ÚKZÚZ is thus not clear. That is why we are proposing to delete all this with this amendment on waste. I would just like to add that the research is currently underway at the ÚKZÚZ, from next year there will be research at the ÈZÚ in Prague on the use of sewage sludge and no one is interested in putting unsuitable cleaning sludge on agricultural land and putting only cleaning sludges that meet the requirements on agricultural land, and somewhere it is the only organic matter that gets into that soil. So much lighting or justification for my first amendment. The second amendment concerns old environmental burdens. The justification here is a little bit longer. This amendment proposes that the Waste Act exempts the charges for dumping waste in landfill cases where such waste comes from the old remediation of environmental burdens. The exemption should cover wastes resulting from the remediation and disposal of such contaminants, in particular rocks and groundwater or surface waters that occurred prior to the privatisation process. It is from the funds that went to the state when the National Property Fund was abolished that the Czech Republic is paying for the remediation of environmental burdens caused by the activities of national enterprises. The proposed adjustment is inspired by a similar anchoring of the exemption of groundwater collection charges in order to reduce their pollution. The motivation for adopting the proposed legislation is in particular a public interest in improving the quality of the environment, protecting the quality of groundwater and surface waters and improving the quality of life not only in the localities concerned. The proposed legislation aims to remove from the State, municipalities and regions the artificially created burden of the past in paying the charges for the storage of waste caused by the sanities of the old environmental burdens which these entities are legally obliged to remove. The State is obliged to remove the old environmental burdens arising from the premises of former national enterprises. The total amount of the State's contractual guarantees to eliminate the environmental burdens which the State is obliged to remove and whose removal is provided by the Ministry of Finance amounts to over 100 billion. Crowns. However, this amount allocated to the removal of old environmental burdens cannot cover all the costs of eliminating these burdens and if most of the costs are paid to the municipalities in whose territory the landfill is located and to the State Fund for the Environment. It is precisely the abolition of charges for the storage of waste from old environmental burdens that will reduce the cost of public budgets to eliminate the inefficient redistribution of money within these budgets. Otherwise, the State would have to cover part of the costs of remediing old environmental burdens. The purpose of the waste storage charge is to reduce the amount of waste stored in the landfill while increasing the volume of waste used. The existence and level of the fee should lead the originator and other persons dealing with the waste to prevent it from being either born or used primarily and not being landfilled. However, the purpose of remediation is to relieve certain sites of environmental burdens. In remediation, the formation of waste is absolutely inevitable and is necessary as a result of the elimination of this contamination. Therefore, cases where the regulatory function of the charge is inefficient in relation to environmental protection, counterproductive and environmental harms more than it benefits should be exempted from the charge. The adoption of the proposed legislation will reduce the cost of removing old environmental burdens, which should result in more efficient and faster disposal of old environmental burdens and thus more environmental protection. The proposed legislation is in the interests of all state institutions, all municipalities, regions and all citizens, as the old environmental burdens can be located in the territory of any region and any municipality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u45	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Babka, Mr Munzar will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u46	Hello, thank you for your word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the proposed draft waste law is to create legal prerequisites for a significant diversion of waste flows to landfills in favour of other ways of waste management that are more environmentally friendly and respect the economic value that waste continues to have. Significant changes are brought about by the law in the area of the waste disposal charge, the operation of waste management facilities, waste collection, waste trading and the solution to the problem of black landfills. Allow me to justify the amendment of the law recorded under file number 5569, which I co-submit with MEP Eva Fialová, Adam Kalous and Marie Pěnčíková and Jan Schiller, who mentioned him here for a short time. The amendment brings about a change and simplification of the waste collection charge. In the current form of the law in force, the absence of financial responsibility for landfill operators for not collecting a charge from waste agents. The government amendment seeks to respond to the problematic situation by imposing a direct fee obligation on the originator, but the proposed method of charging is very complex for administrative and control activities both on the private sector and on the state apparatus. In this respect, it is appropriate to leave the obligation to pay a fee by the landfill operator, even if it is not collected from the producer at all. The result will be the prevention of waste collection into a landfill from a waste producer who has not paid a fee for the waste stored. At the same time, the proposed amendment alleviates the effects of an increase in the waste storage charge on municipalities and thus indirectly on their residents. The discount on waste storage will be set by 2021 to 200 kg of waste per person and every year will be gradually reduced by 10 kg until 2029. This will give municipalities time to improve waste management and to introduce a more sophisticated system for the sorting of municipal waste. The government proposal sets a sorting discount for 2025 to 65 per cent of recovered waste and gradually increases it to 75 per cent in 2027. The amendment for 2025 reduces the percentage threshold compared to the original proposal by 5 percentage points to 60 per cent and in 2029 the need to sort out at least 70 per cent of the waste. This is the highly motivational nature of the amendment and the possibility of reaching a sorting discount will be given to all municipalities. I beg you in this way to support this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u47	I also thank you, and now I ask Mr Munzar, Mr Výborný will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow Members, Minister, I would like to address my amendment to one subject, which goes beyond the main topic that is being discussed here, which is landfilling and terms and costs, etc., although landfills also concern black landfills. I think it's a bit of an understatement, although it's also a very important topic and a very complex topic. However, I have already performed here at first reading, the Minister will certainly remember this, and I expressed my doubts about the model proposed by the Ministry of the Environment, and this is in particular the transfer of full responsibility for black landfills to landowners. From my point of view, the amendment seeks to make the land owner responsible for other people's activities, and landowners will be punished several times for negative phenomena that they have not caused themselves. And what really seems to me behind the edge, and that is what my amendment points at, is that the municipal authority of the municipality with extended scope will be able to impose on the owner of the land to secure, at its own expense, the location of the illegally concentrated waste against the next shipment of waste, which is § 14 para. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) (a) under the threat of sanctions. The minister here at first reading said that it is according to the principle that ownership obliges, this proposal. And I believe that ownership is committed, but property should not be punished either. It is, Minister, imagine if your car had been stolen, the thief would have committed a traffic offence, but you would have been fined for not securing the car enough, so the thieves could steal it and commit a misdemeanor for you. So it would actually be your fault. And it seems absurd to me, too, and I think you do, too, but you're proposing exactly the same principle about black landfills. I, after a long time considering how to formulate my amendment, have finally limited myself to abolishing only this greatest absurdity, only to this one paragraph, and to violating the property rights of landowners, precisely that they can be ordered to secure the site against shipments of waste at their own expense and the associated sanctions. Minister, take this as a helpful step from me, because I also had some doubts about other imposed obligations, but my amendment does not concern those other imposed obligations, even if it could be discussed, because today, according to the municipal law, a person who owns or uses the land must keep such a clean and clean, if it affects the appearance of the municipality. I believe, Minister, that legal obligations must be real and must be enforceable. I just don't know how we're gonna get the landowner to secure a place against a garbage truck. Many black landfills are created in the woods, formed in the fields, formed along the roads. To secure such land means de facto to fence it. I think it really isn't real, and so we would actually get into an absurd situation that the land owner would have a duty he can't fulfill, and because he can't fulfill it, he would get sanctions. So with such a solution, there are either high costs involved, or it's virtually unrealistic. And the state in this way, which it invented, effectively transfers its obligation to protect the environment, among other things, through the detection of waste agents illegally storing such waste outside reserved sites and facilities to private individuals and landowners. All of this in circumstances where other persons who, contrary to the law, had already illegally placed waste in the property right of the owner of the property, made it a black landfill and thus restricted its right of use. And the landowner would actually be punished several times for something he didn't do himself. I believe that the imposition of such an unrealistic obligation to secure the land against the introduction of additional waste goes far beyond the limits of proportionality, which must govern any State intervention in the rights of private individuals, whether through law or by law. So my amendment is on its way to abolishing this one paragraph, and that is securing a place against the introduction of another waste under the threat of sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u49	Thank you. The next one is entered in the debate, Mr Výborný and then, at this point, last, Mrs Fialová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u50	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to present a series of amendments prepared by colleagues Marian Jurečka and Jan Čižinský. I'd like to imagine them very briefly here. It's small things, but with any significant impact. The first of those amendments, which I will then apply to in the context of a detailed debate, proposes that the waste transporter be required to have a vehicle fitted with a weight which will allow him to consider the waste sorted during his loading. It comes from experience that many of those with vehicles often serve several municipalities, smaller municipalities at the same time and then recalculate the actual quantity according to some quotient and does not correspond to the fact from which the municipality was exported how much of the waste. We already know that a number of these vehicles are equipped with weight, so it wouldn't be some enormous financial cost, and the transporter could quite accurately charge the sums for the sorting discount depending on how much it actually takes out of that village. So that's one amendment. In the next amendment, we propose that the text be supplemented by an explicit indication that the information from the register is also entitled to be requested by the authorities of the self-government. We conclude that municipalities and regions are motivated to have information on hazardous waste on their territory, so that they can possibly evaluate and eliminate risks or respond adequately to them in some way. In this draft law there is a possible interpretation contradiction, if the information is to be received only by the authorities of municipalities and regions in the delegation. By this small amendment, we are clearly saying that all public authorities are entitled to the information from the register and may require it. That's another one. [[17,00 hours]] A further amendment complements a new paragraph which allows municipalities, if necessary, to identify all waste agents within their territory for specific types of waste by one carrier. The point is more or less to avoid some uncoordinated waste collection. Again some municipalities, cities have experience that on the cadastral of the village, cities move more carriers, which, of course, when taken into account, it increases the emissions of cars. It is also a kind of protection of the population from the increased risk of increased road transport of trucks, etc. So the point is to really identify a specific company that will be the one carrier that will pick up the waste from the particular cadaster. The next amendment proposes to supplement the text with the State Environmental Fund, which should be linked by the amendment to the use of the funds it receives from this charge only for the purposes of the waste agenda. The aim is that the funds obtained are bound only for the waste agenda and cannot be used by the SFŽP for other purposes set out in the Act. Actually, it's kind of the principle of purpose binding the funds raised. It's a similar principle that applies to emission allowances today. We propose to include him in the Waste Act. Another amendment, proposing that the obligation of the landfill operator be laid down, this is already a matter of landfilling, of having secured funds not only for the first but also for the second phase of the landfill operation. So, more or less, what we're trying to do here is to sort of eliminate the risks that the liquidation of any damage will then be recovered from the funds of municipalities, cities, public administrations, etc. Therefore, we would consider it reasonable that funds be guaranteed not only for the first but also for the second phase. Another amendment proposes that biological waste be included in the sorting discount, which the inhabitants of the municipality will dispose of on their own land, whether by mulching, composting, etc. The aim is for municipalities to be motivated to support the disposal of biological waste by the population themselves. To avoid unnecessary collection of this biological waste at any cost only to ensure that municipalities reach the conditions for a sorting discount. In our view, this is a measure that is really intended to help us not to collect biological waste just to reach the sorting discount itself. I would like to stress that this measure or this proposal is based on the practice that has been adopted in the Federal Republic of Germany and in Austria, it works well there, and we therefore consider it reasonable and submit it in the form of this amendment. And then there are the last two amendments. The first one proposes to delete - concerning similar things - the first one proposes to delete part of the text which allows cross-border shipments of waste to the Czech Republic in order to dispose of it in the Czech Republic in incinerators. The goal is only to prevent waste produced from abroad being imported for disposal in the Czech Republic. In the event that this change is not accepted, of course, there is a risk that new incinerators will be built after the adoption of the law for import and disposal of waste from abroad, which is probably not ideal not only for the environment in the Czech Republic but also for the citizens of the Czech Republic itself. It should be stressed here that the proposed amendment in this amendment complies with European regulations, in particular Directive 2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which allows Member States to take measures to prohibit such transport in whole or in part. And the last amendment proposes, in the same case, to delete the part of the text that restricts the ban on the introduction of waste into the Czech Republic for the purpose of energy recovery to energy use in the municipal waste incinerator, because of course there are other plants that can benefit from this waste, e.g. cement plants and more. And here again what has already been said is in accordance with European regulations, notabene here is probably good to note that the concept that appears in this paragraph, the municipal waste incinerator, is not used anywhere else in this law, and no facility known as municipal waste in the finals is really just a municipal waste incinerator, but an incinerator of many other types of waste. So the concept itself is already taking the potential risk of interpretational problems, what it is, a municipal waste incinerator. It would therefore be appropriate to address this in this way and this amendment. So many presentations of a series of amendments from colleagues from the KDU-ČSL. In a detailed debate, I will then just apply very briefly to them under individual figures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u51	Thank you and please Mrs Fialová, who is at this time the last one entered in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u52	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for the floor. I listened carefully to the whole debate and all the previous speakers, and I decided to get off at the end and sum up some things really out of practice, because there were totally useless things falling, hard to apply. I'll go one step at a time. I would like to comment on Mr Elfmark through Mr President. He paused over the fact that there are a large number of amendments, and also said that waste management is a great business. So I'm giving him the answer why. And he can think about some of his words about talking to x experts, for example, in terms of calorific value, that it should be made of a normal sample. Do you know how easy it is to adjust the sample? On a regular water pour, and will no longer satisfy your calorific value. I wonder what kind of experts they were and what group they belonged to. It was therefore fixed in the dry matter because it is one of the cleanest, most common procedures to prove whether the waste is still usable and whether it is usable precisely for energy use or for further recycling. I also have to agree with Mr Adamec here and support him towards Mr Elfmark. How do you want to deal, if you want to ban landfilling, you want to ban combustion, give combustion fees when we have equipment ready to process and recycle waste? We need to give room for these companies to come into existence, and we can continue to talk about it in what way. But suddenly forbidding everything and saying that everything is wrong, and not having a solution to it, it's not entirely fair to companies, to citizens and to our entire republic. And as for biowaste and the sorting discount itself, we talked about it on the Environment Committee, where the Ministry promised to create a methodology to include biowaste in the sorting discount. That is also the answer to Mr Výborný, who also mentioned this. It fell on the Environment Committee and it seems fair to me to mention this, because the Ministry has promised this. If I address my colleague Crutacks through Mr President, once again we will talk about the calorific value, where one of the amendments increases the calorific value of the so-called 'calorific value'. residual waste. We said we wanted to be ambitious, and we didn't want it to end up in the dumps. But if we increase the calorific value of the residual waste that falls off the sorting lines as so-called. discarding or residual waste that contains a lot of waste that's still recyclable, we just don't have the endings that want to do it, and we're going to increase the calorific value, and where is it going to end up meeting the parameters? These are things that go completely against the ability, where we talk here, which way we want to go. [[17.10 hours]] Furthermore, setting the landfill fee at 1,200. Where did we lose it? And that's another answer to why communities aren't ready. Because when 2024, there was also an amendment to give an economic component and to increase landfill fees in a large way. But unfortunately, he wasn't accepted. So if there is no financial motivation, it is purely logical in all the municipalities that they go the simplest way and choose the cheapest option because they are responsible to their citizens and have to behave with proper care. And if I go back to the last one that practically hit me the most, these are amendments from KDU-ČSL workshop. And I know that Mr Výborný has almost nothing to do with this, but I have discussed this very intensively with my colleague Čižinský on our committee and I have warned him about it, but yet the proposals have appeared here, it will concern carriers and the determination of one carrier, a carrier who will weigh waste. I understand the beneficial effect that is here, but the Waste Act is not only about municipal waste, it is about all the waste that comes from companies. For example, we transport waste - I will talk about solvents, special hazardous chemicals - in special packaging, which subsequently return to companies. And you set in this amendment an obligation to have a weight for all types of waste, which cannot practically be achieved. We transport in tanks, we transport in other things. I understand the purpose of this, the separation of municipal waste in individual municipalities, but this amendment cannot be written that way. And another so that the village can determine one carrier. Do you know how many waste types we have that are being transported and how many companies you have in your territory that produce waste and are the source of waste? And what do they carry them in? You're going to tender as a community for all kinds of ADR codes? For the transport of acids, for the transport of solvents, for the transport of flammable substances? So where's the competition? Will you order private entities to choose only your chosen manufacturer? So where's the competition and the choice? That was for me. And I hope that at the third reading some pointless proposals will not really be supported. And I apologize for this comment, but indeed some amendments are absolutely useless in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u53	Thank you. Mr Elfmark will still respond in the general debate with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u54	Thank you for your word. Just three notes I took here. First of all, as far as Zevo is concerned, I never once said in my speech that they would not and should not be incinerators. I'm just remembering the issue of numbers. Ten incinerators with supposedly planned projects, 2 million tons of waste per year. I was just saying that, of course, if we say it, the incinerators are going to be built, and they're going to have to be built, but all I'm talking about here is that they don't rise above capacity. I never once said that no incinerator was supposed to come out or anything like that. As far as the calorific value parameter is concerned, it is important to point out that even the experts I worked with, which I'm commenting on in a moment, that's the third point, they didn't have a clear view of this thing. There were a lot of these opinions, and basically what they were leaning towards and what the Ministry of the Environment may have been leaning towards is probably based on some political decision, if I say so. As for the expert group, I mentioned here that there were representatives of both non-profit organizations and there were representatives of incinerators, representatives of landfillers, there were also representatives of the Czech Association of Circulation Economy, Waste Economy and so on. And they gave me their views on the various amendments. Again, the amendment I tabled is a purely political decision. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u55	Thank you. And from the point of view, Mrs Pekarová was still reporting to me in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u56	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to comment very briefly on one of the amendments tabled, which my colleagues and I are putting forward. It is specifically with Mrs Balcarová and Mr Elfmark. But the amendments, which I am a co-president of, are even more, but since the reasons from colleagues have already been made in detail here, I will comment in particular on the one which I consider to be very important. So it's the one that solves the landfill. The Government's proposal for a new Waste Act shifts the end of the landfill of usable waste from 2024 to 2030. The Czech Republic is no longer meeting the requirements of the European Union Directive on landfills, which since 1999 requires only treated waste to be landfilled and only a minimum of biodegradable waste. Since there has been no significant increase in sorting and recycling since the ban on landfilling in the current law, there is too little time left until 2024 to meet the current ban on landfilling. In particular, it is not possible to build capacity for the energy use of mixed municipal waste. However, there is no reason to delay the ban on landfilling recyclable and biodegradable waste. Thanks to the proposed amendment, at least 10 million tonnes of municipal waste will not end up in landfills between 2024 and 2030. Part of the waste that will end up as treated waste in landfills will have a 20-fold lower toxicity than the unmixed municipal waste. Thanks to this amendment, if you support it at third reading, it will escape into the air by 2 billion cubic metres of landfill gas less, i.e. about 10 million tons of carbon, which, by the way, is more over the whole period from 2024 to 2030 than the entire air transport in the Czech Republic will produce during that period. The proposal will make it possible to make better use of the waste that we are dumping unnecessarily and will significantly relieve the environment not only in the vicinity of the current landfills. Let us simply and simply be more ambitious with the disposal of waste by burying it under the ground. Let us do so only in the most urgent cases, but we do not have to do so in these specific cases, which address our amendment. Therefore, I am also reporting to a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u57	Thank you. Mr Zahradník will respond with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u58	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would just like to comment on, say, the terminological dispute that Mrs Balcarová, or colleague Elfmark, has raised here between the concept of incineration and the concept of energy recovery of waste. The methodology with which the environmental report of the Czech Republic is processed distinguishes both the combustion method and the energy recovery method in the waste management category. While energy recovery is applied to around 12 percent of waste, combustion at almost zero percent. But there are two different ways, and there are two different things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u59	Thank you. And that was the last application at the moment in the general debate, so if no one else is reporting to the general debate, I am ending it at this time. I ask if there is interest in the final words after the general debate. It's not like that. I believe that there has been no proposal that we should vote on at the moment, so I am opening the debate in detail. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must be justified. There are nine applications. First Mrs Krutáková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u60	Thank you for the floor. I would therefore like to subscribe to the amendments made as House document 5767, 5810, 5751, 5750 and to the joint amendment under number 5778. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u61	Thank you. I believe that the proposals were duly justified in the debate. And please Mr Schiller, with further proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u62	Thank you. I would also like to sign up for amendments, namely 5566, 5567, 5568, joint amendment 5569 and last 5599. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u63	Thank you. Mr Kott.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would therefore like to sign up for two amendments. The first is House document 5708 and the second 5709. I have given both of them detailed reasons in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u65	Thank you. Mr. Babka is next. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u66	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for the joint amendment under number 5569. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u67	Thank you. Now, Mrs Pěnčíková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u68	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which you have in the system under number 5766, including the justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u69	Thank you. Mr. Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u70	Hello again. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is conducted in the system under number 5328. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u71	Thank you. Mr. Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u72	Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to sign up for an amendment with the designation 5811. It is the amendment of Zbyněk Stanjura, which concerns, as did colleague Kott, but I am not sure whether the proposals are identical, and it is actually the exemption of charges for landfills for old environmental burdens, so that the Ministry chooses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u73	Thank you. If necessary, it shall be arranged by the Committee. And now, Mr. Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u74	Thank you for the floor. If I may, I would like to sign up for the amendments that I raised in the general debate. These are amendments by colleagues Marian Jurečka and Jan Čižinský, and in the system they are under numbers 5791, 5792, 5793, 5794, 5795, 5796 and then two amendments under number 5805 respectively. alternative version of the amendment, where appropriate, under number 5809. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u75	Thank you. Now, Mrs Pekarová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u76	Thank you for the floor. I hereby declare the amendment under number 5782, which I have already justified in the general debate, and I present it together with my fellow Members Elfmark and Mrs Balcarová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u77	Thank you. And now I have received a report from Mr Elfmark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u78	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for this House document under the numbers 5647, 5648, 5649, 5650, 5651, 5652, 5653, 5654, 5655, 5656, 5657, 5659, 5740, 5753, 5774, 5778 and my colleague Pekarová Adamová 5782. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-17-ps2017-049-09-008-039.u79	Thank you, too. And I don't have any more applications for a detailed debate at the moment. So if no one else wants to sign up for any amendments, then I am ending the debate in detail. I ask if there is an interest in the final words after a detailed debate by the appellant or rapporteur. It's not like that. I believe that there have been no proposals that we should vote on at this time, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Thank you all for your participation and we will move on to the next point in today's negotiations. The next item is point number
