ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-005-191.u1	191. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on the prevention of double taxation in the field of income taxes and on the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance, signed in Biškek on 9 April 2019 /German press 487/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-005-191.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I present a treaty to prevent double taxation with Kyrgyzstan, which was signed on 9 April 2019 in Bishkek. The foreign policy of the Czech Republic is certainly aimed at developing mutually beneficial economic relations with other countries of the world, so the conclusion of this international tax treaty follows the intention to limit the tax burden on business entities when excluding unintended international double taxation. There is currently a non-contractual relationship between the Czech Republic and Kyrgyzstan in the mutual tax relations, and the existence of a double taxation treaty is undoubtedly necessary for the functioning of tax relations and the development of relations between the two states. Kyrgyzstan represents the last country of the former Soviet Union, with which the Czech Republic does not yet have a treaty to prevent double taxation. The Double Taxation Treaty, which is currently being proposed in relations between the Czech Republic and Kyrgyzstan, was prepared on the basis of OECD and UN model models, which, of course, responds to the internal tax rules of both countries. The contract contains all so-called minimum standards resulting from the BEPS project. This tax agreement is very important for our business entities. The bilateral relations between the Czech Republic and Kyrgyzstan are good, but the current volume of trade cooperation in absolute numbers is becoming more modest. In recent years, the trend has clearly changed and there has been an increase in contacts between the business sectors of both countries, which, together with other measures, creates a prerequisite for the growth of mutual trade in the coming years. For example, an agreement on cooperation between the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Economy of the Kyrgyz Republic can be mentioned in April 2019. Kyrgyzstan is one of the countries of Central Asia and offers Czech investors many opportunities for investment, such as in the light industry, food industry, e.g. technology of beer production, agricultural plants, sewage treatment plants, hydro power plants, transport equipment and, last but not least, tourism. Due to relatively low imports from Kyrgyzstan, the balance of trade between them is significantly in favour of our country. The total turnover of trade more than doubled in 2017 compared to the previous year to a value exceeding USD 16 million, slightly above USD 11 million in 2018. It is active in Kyrgyzstan, for example. Czech company Regulus, which supplied the heating system to the construction of the highest yurt in the world. Finally, the text of the contract fully reflects developments and trends in the international tax area. This tax agreement will enable the coordination of the activities of the tax authorities of both states to limit possible tax evasion and, last but not least, will enable the relevant exchange of information. So I beg you to take note of these facts, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-005-191.u3	Thank you. Mrs Monika Červíčková is the rapporteur for first reading. Madam rapporteur, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-005-191.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Minister has actually presented the contract in very detail, I have no choice but to supply basic information rather than technical information. This agreement was given a favourable opinion from the Government, not only in view of the fact that the negotiation of a double taxation treaty does not require changes in the Czech legal order and does not affect the obligations of other international treaties by which the Czech Republic is bound. This contract has already been discussed by the Senate of the Czech Republic, its guarantee committee, and has also given a favourable opinion. I therefore propose ordering this House press, this treaty, to discuss the foreign committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-005-191.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I have no application for the debate, and I do not see anyone reporting for the debate, so I am ending the debate. There is no interest in final words either. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed that this Treaty be dealt with by the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see another suggestion. We will therefore vote on the commandment to the Foreign Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 316, registered 140, for 113, against no one. I note that the proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. I end the first reading of this proposal. Apologies: Mrs Helena Válková apologises for today's meeting from 11.30 pm for work reasons. He's present, so the apology is no longer valid at the moment. Mr Pavel Jelínek apologizes from 11.30 am to the end for health reasons. The next point is the number.
