ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-010-044.u1	44. Government bill amending Act No. 119/2002 Coll., on Firearms and Firearms (Gunarms Act), as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /house print 92/ - first reading So, under the authority of the government, Jan Hamáček, Vice-President of the Government and Interior Minister, will present the proposal. Please, Minister, take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-010-044.u2	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, colleagues, I am here today to present a proposal for an amendment to the Act on Weapons, which introduces a widely rejected directive on weapons into the Czech law. You all know that the Czech Republic disagreed with the directive, brought an action for its annulment to the European Court of Justice, but in December last year the European Court of Justice rejected our action. This means that we have an obligation to implement this directive. The deadline has already expired on 14 September 2018 and the European Commission has launched the steps leading to an action against the Czech Republic for failure to fulfil obligations, and the fine can amount to up to CZK 4 million for every day of delay. And I'm warning you that the fine would be paid from the Ministry of the Interior's budget. I consider it more effective to give this money instead of Brussels to our firefighters and policemen and to agree on some form of text. And that's exactly what happened. I want to thank all those who have participated here in the Chamber of Deputies and beyond to find a solution. I believe we have the solution here today. It is this implementing law plus the superstructure law, if you want, which was introduced here a moment ago, and in combination, I think we will ensure that the Czech Republic will fulfil the obligation to implement the relevant directive, that the impact on the shooting public will be absolutely minimal and at the same time nothing essential for our shooting public will change and there will certainly not be fulfilling those apocalyptic scenarios that someone will be taking weapons and so on and so on and so forth. That means I want to thank you for your willingness to make a deal. [[14.50 hours]] I will not talk in detail about what this law introduces, because he will, I suppose, admit changes in the context of the amendments. I said and say that, of course, I am also prepared to support the amendments that still soften the original government proposal in quotation marks, provided, of course, that it does not leave the tracks given by the directive in question. So that's it for me. I believe that today we have finally taken steps to avoid imposing unnecessary penalties on the Czech Republic and, at the same time, to calm the shooting public in the Czech Republic by the process that we have entered, and that we will all proceed constructively. Thank you, and that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-010-044.u3	I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Jana Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-010-044.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I repeat that, in this case, it is a government bill which is presented in order to ensure the transposition of Directive 2017/853 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending Council Directive 91/477/EEC on the control, acquisition and possession of weapons. This is an infamous directive that the European Union institutions responded to the terrorist attacks committed in Paris in November 2015 and was presented as a means of combating terrorism and illegal arms trafficking. Again, in this case, I am signed up for this general debate, so that as rapporteur, I can fulfil the role of objective commenting on the proposal and avoid my subjective feelings. I would like to add, therefore, that the Czech Republic has also tried to combat this directive by judicial means, by an action for annulment before the Court of Justice of the European Union aimed at repealing the entire directive and, at the same time, by bringing an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Czech Republic has applied for the so-called 'the Court of Justice of the European Union'. precautionary measures to postpone the effectiveness of the directive. Unfortunately, this defence of the Czech Republic was not effective and we lost the lawsuit. The aim of the proposed amendment is therefore to ensure implementation of the revised directive, as is apparent from Government Resolution No. 740 of 23. 10. 2017. The implementation deadline was set by the directive on 14 September 2018, so we are already in a state where the European Commission can sue the Czech Republic under non-compliance and enforce financial sanctions. 26 July 2019 was delivered to the Czech Republic so-called the reasoned opinion of the European Commission and the Czech Republic had to reply by 26 December 2019 as it implemented. The European Commission's action against the Czech Republic may therefore follow, because the expiry of the period for a reasoned opinion is also the basis for assessing the infringement of European Union law by the Court of Justice. That is, if fines were to be counted, they would count from 26 December 2019 to the time of implementation, the Minister has already suggested this. I will not defend this directive in any way, I will just stress to you what should be said here in the news report, and that the Czech Republic is threatened with the following sanctions: One-off lump sum and periodic penalty payments, which are imposed in the form of a fee for every day of delay to implement the measures necessary to fully remedy the infringement of European Union law. A one-time fine is usually about - I will not tell you in euros, I will tell you in millions - it is CZK 33.5 million, which is actually several times higher. The penalty goes from a minimum of approximately CZK 40.5 thousand a day to a maximum of CZK 4 million a day from the judgment to the time when the Czech Republic makes a correction, it implements the requirements of the directive on weapons. The amount of the fine also depends on the speed of the legislative process, the delay with the transposition significantly increases the amount of the fine. In case of rapid transposition, it can be about 60 million, however, if the transposition takes place for example. one year after the judgment in the case, it may be about CZK 300 million. As the Minister rightly pointed out here, sanctions would be or will be paid from the chapter of the State Budget of the Ministry of the Interior, which, of course, is very delicate for this department, because it is already struggling with a lack of funds. We are in a situation in which we are in terms of economic future development in the Czech Republic. So much for me the facts from the news report and I will give - I will not abuse the position of rapporteur and I will give you the opinion of the ODS club on this implementation in the debate that I signed up for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-03-ps2017-049-06-010-044.u5	Thank you. Good afternoon. So I am interrupting this point and, at the same time, opening up a merged debate on both points.
