ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-004-210.u1	210. Draft by Members of Jakub Janda, Adam Kalous, Václav Votava and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 235/2014 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended /German press 662/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 662/1. I will ask that Mr Jakub Janda take his seats at the rapporteur's table as the plaintiff, and Mr Petr Venhoda, who was to be rapporteur for first reading, is indisposed in his voice and proposes that the rapporteur, after agreement, be a colleague of Kytýr. This will be decided in the vote number 249, so that Mr Kytýr is rapporteur for first reading. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 249 of the presence 174 for 125, against no one. Colleague Kytýr was approved as rapporteur for first reading. I'll ask him to take the floor at the news desk. And now I will ask Mr Jakub Janda to present the press as soon as the situation calms down. Mr. Ambassador, just a moment. [[The noise lasts.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg the peace of mind in the hall so that my colleague Janda can present a press of 662 in a dignified environment. Just a minute. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-004-210.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear members of the government, I present to you with a proposal for an amendment to the Value Added Tax Act. Its subject is the reduction of the limit called. VAT refunds on foreign tourists from countries outside the European Union for purchases in the Czech Republic. The current limit of this refund has been preserved for over 15 years to the sum of CZK 2,000 and would be CZK 1000 according to our proposal. It is a very simple amendment, but it is very necessary to promote tourism, especially today. Tourism is one of the most affected areas of the Coronavirus crisis. Just a few numbers for the illustration. In the second quarter, almost 83% of people used accommodation facilities in the Czech Republic year-on-year; in Prague, the number of tourists accommodated fell by 94 percent. Similar developments occurred on ordered nights and, of course, sales. It will probably take a number of years for tourism to return to last year's numbers, i.e. the outbreak of the coronavirus crisis. This amendment will certainly not cause a dramatic turnaround, but it still makes sense. Lowering the VAT refund limit will be a clear signal that the Czech Republic is interested in foreign tourists. He wants them to spend and support local manufacturers, including smaller and regional ones. I therefore believe that the proposal is reasonable, well calculated and beneficial. [[16.00 hours]] I'll start from the end. When I say beneficial, I don't just mean for foreign tourists who save a little bit, but mainly for domestic tourism and its operators, to which corona-based restrictions have fallen extremely destructively, but also for producers of various traditional items, often for smaller companies and small entrepreneurs, especially for the whole Czech economy. Traders and producers would increase sales, tourism would get at least a little boost. However, there are more reasons to lower this limit. On the question of why to lower this limit, I think it's a wrong question. We should rightly ask why not lower it, or even better, how much lower it is. At the same time, I would like to remind you that this is not the first time I have come up with this proposal, but after a very intense discussion on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, which took place in the form of seminars and on the subcommittee on tourism and on a number of personal meetings. As I have already mentioned, the subject of the proposal is to establish a new minimum limit of CZK 1000. This is a compromise, while the proposal was being discussed, there were other figures falling from different sides. For example, 750 crowns, which now corresponds to about 30 euros, and this, in the opinion of tourism experts, acts as a kind of psychological limit when deciding on purchases. But okay. Finally, we agreed to a slightly higher limit, the thousand crowns mentioned, because we consider this a reasonable compromise for all stakeholders, including the Treasury. The government has taken a disagreeable position on our proposal. Before I get to discuss her arguments, I would like to say why, on the contrary, I think this is a sensible change. For one thing, there's a factor in time. The current limit, the 2,000 crowns, has been valid since 2004, i.e. for over 15 years. In addition, the koruna was weaker against the euro at the time, so it corresponded to a smaller amount in the euro, i.e. it was slightly over 60 euros, and today it is about 75 euros. So, from the point of view of foreign tourists, there has been a gradual deterioration. Furthermore, there is a competitiveness factor where we are significantly lagging behind compared to other European countries. In some European countries, this limit is significantly lower or even zero, an example of neighbouring Germany, the biggest competitor in tourist purchases, or Spain, a tourist power that reduced the limit to zero in 2018, which has also shown an increase in purchasing in some less attractive destinations. Of course, just because of the VAT refund, thousands of tourists suddenly don't come here, that would be naive to expect. However, some who hesitate among the different countries of Central Europe may play a major role. Typically for organized tours, shopping tourism, which is generally popular, especially for movable Asian tourists whose aim is to spend, among other things, throughout Europe. Once the coronavirus weakens and comes back here again, it would be good to be well prepared to fight for their favor. And financial resources should also be prepared. We are only one corner of Europe to them, however picturesque. So even this can be a tweak on the scales of their decision-making. At the same time, the Czech Republic would stop losing significant amounts of sales, as it is for very close distance from Germany that foreign tourists choose to close the crossing to Germany and spend their money there. A very typical example is a visit to Karlovy Vary, where tourists run over to Germany, where the limit is zero, and spend their money beyond our borders. And it's not just our neighbor in competitiveness. For VAT refunds, we also lag behind countries such as Poland, the Netherlands and Estonia. According to some estimates, the reduction in the limit could attract more than 50,000 new tourists to the Czech Republic, i.e. after the release of restrictions. Moreover, purchases of non-European tourists have a clear economic benefit. It is estimated that almost four crowns return to the economy for each crown from VAT refunds. The support of Czech traders and craftsmen, which would increase sales, is also an important factor. Moreover, the support of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs is noticeable precisely because it would involve goods of around thousands of crowns, which are typically toys, jewels and other products. Moreover, this could also have a positive effect on border regions, where - and perhaps we all agree on this - the economy does not bloom as it does in large cities, whether it is Ústecký, Karlovarský or South Moravia. This is confirmed by the fact that tourist revenues are concentrated primarily in Prague, which accounts for up to 90 percent of the total spending. The reduction in the limit could thus support this very regional trade. All this, moreover, at a time when more and more obligations and national regulations are being imposed on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. For example, EET, whose other waves are unfortunately waiting for us after a delay due to coronavirus. So if you mean it with the support of businessmen, craftsmen, simply smaller and medium-sized entrepreneurs seriously, then you have a unique chance to prove it. Just a little - raise your hand for this law. After all, the entire Tax Free program, which has been a member of the Czech Republic since 2000, has one significant positive effect, namely the control of traders, because the tourist must have a clearly proven receipt for the trader when claiming. The VAT refund and its popularity is thus a much more effective tool in the fight against the grey economy than the EET, since both businessmen and tourists are motivated and interested in the receipt being delivered. This brings me to the government's reservations about the bill. The strongest thing is that there will be a reduction in VAT collection and a failure in the state budget. On the contrary, the reduction in VAT refunds aims to stimulate the economy, encourage traders, motivate tourists to buy, as I have already said, especially in the regions. But specifically. The government estimates a negative impact on public budgets of between CZK 100 million and CZK 400 million. Of course, we cannot know the exact financial effect of such a change in advance, but I still have to contradict this estimate. For one thing, this amount is overvalued due to the estimated volume of goods that would be re-returned. Let me give you a model example. If I take the average price of a new purchase of CZK 1,500, i.e. halfway between the new and old limit, VAT is CZK 260. That would have to be some 385,000 to 1.5 million new purchases according to the government estimate. This would mean a multiple increase in the state of 2019, which is quite unrealistic. Moreover, this does not correspond to any foreign experience. And then there's also a clear contradiction in the government's argument. On the one hand, they claim that this will have no greater impact on the purchases of tourists in this price category, because tourists are particularly interested in luxury goods, on the other hand, but warns against high VAT losses. However, if such a tourist buys, for example, in Paris Street here in Prague, he is actually indifferent to the reduction of the vomit, or the government is a bit of a contradiction. Moreover, there are expert estimates that I have already mentioned, which are based on the functioning of practices and models in other countries where such a step has taken place. Otherwise, it would be irresponsible to put forward such a proposal at all. I therefore believe that the long-term impact on the state budget would be neutral or perhaps even positive. Moreover, the impact study of experts from the Chamber of Commerce, while calculating losses from VAT collection to CZK 52 million, also counts on increased sales and tourist spending, which will bring more money to the state register in the finals. But even if I were not overly optimistic, I simply and simply cannot accept government arguments in such a form, but rather reject them. In addition, I would point out once again that we are in a completely different situation than when I made the proposal to the House. At the moment, foreign tourists travel to the Czech Republic at least and the return to the state from last year may take several years, even on the part of the state budget. [[16.10 hours]] The government also points out that by reducing the limit, scissors open between the advantages of purchasing for tourists from European Union countries and those from non-EU countries. That's true, but if we can't relieve the union, why not at least do it for the others? Above all, such measures are nothing special. On the contrary, it is a kind of global standard, which we ourselves can use in a number of countries. And if there is no common European approach to this, let the critics of the proposal go to Brussels rather. I don't have a problem with us going out if it's for the benefit of our country. Others, moreover, turn even further away. The government further argues by increasing the administrative burden of the Customs Administration and the lack of electronisation of the whole system, which would increase the risk of contributions. I don't buy it. The failure of the State to provide such a service cannot be an argument, either in this or in any other case. The reduction of the refund limit will indeed lead to a greater number of forms that customs will have to process and therefore a slightly higher administrative burden. However, last year, an electronisation of this process was planned, as I was assured by the Minister of Finance myself, who I had already intersected on this matter. I therefore assume that this electronic system is already available and functional, and therefore there is no need to worry about greater administrative complexity. Moreover, once again, we will be happy to get to the number of incoming tourists from previous years within a few years, which means customs will have less work than before anyway. And four. In a disagreeable opinion, it is said that foreign tourists who would benefit from relief are more interested in more expensive and luxurious goods anyway. This is, however, the definition of circle or straight "head 22" because the aim of the amendment is to extend the range of discounted goods to cheaper products, often craft products or handmade goods. To put it simply, not only fashionable goods from Paris, as I mentioned earlier, but just small goods from shops from Czech producers. Ladies and gentlemen, in summary, the proposed change is nothing radical at all. It is only a minor promotion of tourism and, in particular, our tradesmen and craftsmen, simply smaller entrepreneurs. And even a little help is help. I therefore hope that my arguments will be heard and amended by Act No. 235/2004 Coll. you will support, just as the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Employment Unions, the Trade and Tourism Union and many other organizations did. With this gesture, you will show that you are not indifferent to the problems and demands of Czech businessmen or craftsmen, whether you are sitting in government or opposition benches. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-004-210.u3	I thank Mr Jakub Jand for the plaintiff. I will now ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jaroslav Kytýr, to present his intelligence report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-004-210.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members of the Government, honourable Members, as has been stated by the representatives of the petitioners, the aim of the parliamentary proposal is to adjust the limit of the lowest value of the goods which a natural person from countries outside the European Union must pay to one vendor in one calendar day in order to obtain the right to refund of value added tax when goods are exported from the Czech Republic. In the proposal the current limit of CZK 2,000 is adjusted to the applicant for the sum of CZK 1000. With respect to the intention of the petitioners to promote tourism and larger purchases of tourists from countries outside the European Union, I must disagree with this proposal. We are talking about the lower limit for exemption from export tax. We are talking about an exception where VAT returns on exports outside the European Union and nothing returns on exports to the Member States of the European Union. For this reason, I consider the change of this exception to a lower amount of CZK 1000 as an unfortunate promotion of tourism, with full knowledge that there is a need to look for a number of measures in the context of this covid crisis to promote tourism, promote business and improve conditions for their activities. In my opinion, this shopping tourism is focused on valuable goods for tourists outside the European Union, and I therefore doubt the fulfilment of the objective of the petitioners. The Government's position, as stated on the parliamentary proposal, is disagreeable. I personally see this exception as unfair, which is why in the general debate I will propose rejection at first reading. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-004-210.u5	Thank you for your intelligence report, Mr rapporteur. I'm registering your application for a debate. I am now opening up a general debate. First to speak, Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Vice Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-004-210.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I will not speak for long, I will just try to defend the negative position that I have had on the government and in which I have remained, and maybe explain some of the uncertainties that, as I listened to the translator, I think he may have taken from the text. It's not about Customs incompetence at all. The customs administration is certainly one of the public authorities that carries out its duties to the top. As far as the public administration system in this area is concerned within the Czech Republic, it works perfectly smoothly. The fact that I'm saying that actually the electronization in this area is going to be within one to two years - and I reacted in the interpelation that you had on me, as you rightly said, so it's not about the inability of the Customs administration, but about the fact that external entities, it's also the traders who - you may have said not to the Customs administration, but the state - it's about having to do this -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-004-210.u7	Madam Vice-President of the Government, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace! If you're discussing another subject, please go to the foyer. Let the Vice Prime Minister explain her position in a dignified environment as well as the petitioner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-004-210.u8	Thank you. The point is that external bodies regularly supply this necessary information from abroad, especially from Germany, from Austria, and then, of course, the system will be comprehensive, and this will be secured within the EU at some point in the year to two. So it's not that we don't want it or can't secure it. That's one argument. Perhaps the most fundamental argument - I will not oppose the budgetary implications here. They're pretty hard to calculate because they're estimated by some volume of business that could be smaller over time, it could be bigger. That's why the variance is quite large, 100 to 400 million, that's a big variance, but we're not able to quite calculate it. However, the budgetary implications, I will say frankly, are not the most essential. That's probably not the amount that would ruin the budget. But I think there's a whole bunch of stuff in there. The inequality between purchases in the European Union and third countries will continue to increase. The disproportion's been there a long time, it's gonna get bigger again. Who's left with a piece of this amount? Intermediaries. It's a common phenomenon. We have dealt with this in the area of Customs or Financial Administration very often. Disgusting commissions from intermediaries who kept this part. That's a big argument I'm definitely listening to, and from practice, I just see and hear those experiences. The other thing is, what's important to say is that basically when I talk about the administrative burden, I don't mean just the administrative burden on the public administration, I know that I don't hire anyone, so I don't argue with this, but I mean the administrative burden on everyone, even the tourists themselves. [[16.20 hours]] I would like to say that the tourist does not decide whether to go to Prague, Spain, or whether to choose Charles Bridge or something else, according to VAT refund. That's what I think - with the goods he buys as a souvenir. I don't think that's the decision to make, but it might be interesting for him that we have reduced the VAT to accommodation in the anti-crisis tax package, which can actually be reflected in the discount on accommodation, and he shows how much I hear around him, and I think it is much more fundamental for him than how much he saves on some package. So these are probably my arguments as to why I was opposed to reducing this limit, and I insist on these arguments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-004-210.u9	Thank you to Vice Prime Minister and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. The rapporteur is now in the debate and then a representative of the appellants, Mr Janda, is reporting. I beg my colleague, Kytýr, who has entered into the debate. Once again, I ask the House for peace! Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-004-210.u10	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, with reference to my intelligence report, I would like to propose that this bill be rejected at first reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-004-210.u11	Thank you. Now, Mr Jakub Janda in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-004-210.u12	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to respond here to the Minister. Madam Secretary, you must have listened to me wrong. I wasn't talking about Customs incompetence. I will tell you what I was talking about: the failure of the State to provide such a service cannot be an argument. I wasn't talking about Customs. You told me in my last interview that this system was developing, or should have been developed last October. Then you promised me you'd even take me there and show me how those electronic booths work. I texted you the day after the interpellation, and you never called me back. Those are your vows. [[The noise in the hall lasts. Very poor hearing.]] Further - inequality between members of the European Union and outside the European Union. So tell me what inequality is needed in Germany, which we look at when there is zero. In Poland, I think she's nothing. There's nothing in Estonia. So these states behave unevenly? We're doing this to prepare ourselves, not for today, but for the future. Or we'll be back here in three or four years when this crisis is over, standing where the trade is going and we say, "We didn't do anything about it." And who didn't do anything about it? You don't want to do anything about it. I think you've been crashing people's expertise in tourism all your life. I've appointed you an association that's been fighting for this for a long time, and if we submit it, you're here to negotiate with the rapporteur and propose a rejection at first reading. That's unfair! Stand up in front of the voters and say: we don't really want to do anything in the future, we'll wait for it to happen, and then we'll save everyone. But when this crisis is over, maybe you don't have to be here anymore. I'd also like to make a procedural suggestion. I suggest we cut the committee hearing by 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-004-210.u13	I thank my colleague Jakub Jand. That was the last logged in so far. I now see another application from Mr Ferjenčík's post. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-004-210.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We see this press as a carrier for a fundamental change of what is needed, and this is an increase in the VAT cap to 2 million, because it is indeed needed. We want this to be discussed, so we will support the release of this technical change, which in itself is not extra significant, until the second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-004-210.u15	Thank you. Anyone else for the debate? Yes, I see Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-004-210.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, colleagues, and I will first respond to the words of my colleague Ferjenčík. There will be another opportunity, I suppose, tomorrow at second reading there will be a flat-rate tax, where I have prepared an amendment that I have tabled here several times to increase VAT to 2 million. But that's not why I applied. Rather, I wanted to respond to the rapporteur, who here expressed some doubts about this proposal by my colleague Jakub Janda. I think, and he said that it would, of course, not increase the purchasing tourism dramatically, but, in our opinion, it would increase the thinking of those tourists who come here, and it could be an incentive to increase their consumption among our businessmen, our craftsmen. And I think it is necessary at this time, so let me express my support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-29-ps2017-058-05-004-210.u17	I thank Mr Munzar. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? It's not like that. In that case, we can move on to proposals for a vote. The first proposal for a vote is a motion to reject the proposal. If it fails, we will vote on the commandment and shorten the time limit for discussion. Now I'm gonna go on, so I'm gonna try to see if it's working yet. [[It's working.]] I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of entries has been settled, we will decide on the motion for rejection in the vote order number 250. The number of entries has stabilized. We will vote on a motion to dismiss. I've started the vote with order number 250, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 250 from 158 for 88, against 52. The motion was accepted. That means press hearing 662 is over. I thank the representatives of the appellants, thank the rapporteur, and I conclude with point No. 210. Since it's not 17 o'clock, we can continue with the point
