ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u1	6. Government bill on certain adjustments in the area of state social aid benefits and the contribution to care in connection with emergency situations in the 2020 epidemic /German press 798/ - shortened negotiations Before discussing this government bill, we should assess, in accordance with Section 99, whether the conditions for discussing that bill are in the shortened negotiations. I am opening up a debate on this issue. I'm asking if anyone's interested in the show. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the fulfilment of the conditions for discussion in the accelerated negotiations. I've summoned our colleagues from the lobby. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's draft law on certain adjustments in the area of state social aid benefits and the contribution to care in connection with the emergency situation in the 2020 epidemic, House press 798 in the accelerated negotiations'. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 21, registered is 100, for 75, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that the resolution has been approved. And so we will now proceed to discuss this press. To remind you, there is once again an agreement between all clubs that factual remarks will not be made, and on this particular point we have agreed that there will be a maximum of one Member per club. It's a gentleman's agreement for a colleague who nods his head at me. The Government's proposal for a law on certain adjustments in the area of benefits of state social support and the contribution to care in connection with the emergency situation in the 2020 epidemic, House press 78, shortened negotiations, will be presented to us by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, the reason for submitting this law is that we want to simplify the payment of some uninsurable benefits quickly. The aim is to minimise the need for personal contact between clients and employees of the employment office as well as employers, as well as to reduce the volume of shipments delivered by the Czech Post. This is an exceptional adjustment that will only be valid for a limited period of time, that is, for an emergency period. Today's situation is that in order to maintain entitlement to certain benefits, and we are talking about child allowance, care allowance, as well as housing allowance, it is necessary to document revenue for the previous quarter or the cost of housing. This means, in particular, that this concerns the housing allowance. Today, these matters must be documented by the end of April, otherwise the payment of the levy will stop, and if they do not show up by the end of the second quarter, the benefit will be withdrawn. Therefore, we propose that the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic should base its determination of the amount and payout of these benefits for the second quarter of this year on data that were documented for the first quarter. Thus, entitlement to benefits would remain without proof of income and housing costs. It is not clear how long the emergency will take, how long the extraordinary restrictions will last, how long the work restrictions will last, or also restrictions in contact with authorities and other bodies. If it takes a long time, we will have to deal with this bill even more closely. It is important to note that this law will not affect the submission of new applications. Benefits should continue to be re-evaluated in the event of changes in the operative events. There will still be an obligation to report changes. This means that dose increases will still be possible. The law will be effective on the day of its publication, due to the urgency and necessity of adopting an adjustment. I would also like to point out that I agree with Mrs GajdůGajdůšková's amendment. The Senate is ready to discuss the law on Thursday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u3	Thank you. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, to take the floor, to inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and to justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the Social Policy Committee met this morning for this House press. Two amendments have been tabled here. One Mrs Richterová, the other Mrs Gajdůšková. Neither of these amendments was adopted by the Committee on Social Policy. I would now read the resolution of the Social Policy Committee of the 48th meeting of 7 April 2020 on the Government Bill on certain adjustments in the area of state social support benefits and the contribution to care in connection with the emergency situation in the outbreak in 2020, House press 798. After the opening words of Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Petr Hůrka, Jana Pastuchová's report and after the debate of the Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to end its negotiations on this bill by 19 a.m. on 7 April 2020 at the latest; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree with the Government's proposal for a law on certain adjustments in the area of state social support benefits and the contribution to care in connection with the emergency situation of the epidemic in 2020, the House's press 798; V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Committee of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies of the Chamber of Deputies of the relevant legislative technical adaptations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. Only for Members who are enrolled with a factual remark. We are not in the debate, so I cannot make a factual point, and I reiterate the gentlemen's agreement that they will not be implemented, and that is all. There. We must now decide by vote whether we will lead the general debate on this point. I'll call all the colleagues from the lobby. We will therefore vote whether we will have a general debate on this press. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting 22, logged in 101, for 74, against no one. We will therefore have a general debate. Mr Kubíček with his proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thus, I solemnly propose a reduction in the time for Members to speak in a general and detailed debate for five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u7	Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of limiting speaking time for five minutes. Who's against it? Voting 23, logged in 101, for 65, against no one. [[versus 2]] This proposal has been approved. I am opening a general debate and Mrs GajdůGajdůšková is the first to sign up. [[From the diaper, the answer is, "Two were against."]] Two were against it, and I didn't say it on the record. Sorry, 65 pros, 2 cons. The motion was accepted. [[There are voices coming from the diaper.]] Namely next time, I'll tell you who was against it. [[With laughter. Fun and laughter in the hall.]] Well, Madame, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u8	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I, of course, strongly support the proposal tabled by the Minister. Critical crisis measures mean limiting contacts between people, this is a transitional operation in the area of public administration in particular in an electronic way and limiting personal contact with clients only to the extent necessary. In order to meet these requirements in the area of state social support benefits and the care allowance, the amendment I am proposing and to which I will sign up in a detailed debate is directed. It will help those who are already receiving contributions and allowances and, of course, will also help those who work in employment offices. Those who receive both child allowance and housing allowance do not usually work online. Labour offices for administration of new requirements and new agendas in addressing the effects of pandemics in particular the Antivirus programme also need to open up space, they need to reduce agendas that are not strictly necessary. That's very important to a lot of other people. I note that the amendment will not affect the right to grant these benefits if someone is in a situation where he is entitled to the benefit if he has access to it. That is, if a person asks for a new one or if the financial situation gets worse and he is entitled to an increase. Come in. In Law 363/2019, the methodology of the jointly assessed persons was changed for the purposes of granting the housing allowance. He always confesses for one year, from 1. The 7th of that year. This applies to approximately 150,000 cases that the labour authorities would have to do in that 1. 7. reconsider. With low unemployment and last year's situation, the labour authorities could easily handle this. But in the current situation, I'm afraid it's unthinkable. Women who have children at home also work mostly at the offices of work. Emergency and anti-coronavirus conditions must also be ensured there. I am afraid that if we do not make the necessary adjustment, so we will not postpone this assessment, the payment of this contribution for the next period may be at risk. Although the Social Committee has not tabled an amendment to me, I ask again to consider all the contexts and impacts of the regulation at the same time and how we can help people. These are the most needed ones, the poorest ones, such as single parents, but they are also employees of labour offices. Given the limited time, I will explain the amendment in more detail in the detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u9	Thank you, Madame. Next, Mrs Richterová is enrolled in the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u10	Thank you for the floor. Very briefly. We all know it's not clear how long the emergency will take. It's already April, and here's the extension that I very much welcome, and it's necessary, we could approve again in two months. It is a measure in that law that would only last for this quarter. Therefore, I am putting forward a very brief technical amendment number 4763 which would have allowed the emergency situation to continue if the regional branches, contact branches of labour had not been restored, so that, on 1 July, in two and a half months, it could automatically continue to go according to the state of pay, as it is now, so that we do not have to deal with this again in two months. It's purely an option that doesn't activate if the emergency is over. So it's purely an opportunity to continue to simplify the claim for the housing allowance and child allowance. I have one more question for Mrs Gajdůšková. Her proposal also contains an extension of this option, but at the same time it changes the conditions by not taking into account any changes. But a change in the circle of persons considered together is a key parameter for the housing allowance. The change of persons considered together can mean a large, thousand-coron, several thousand-crown difference, and precisely because such a thing would fall out of its amendment, it would not be possible to take that into account, so it does not seem entirely appropriate to us. One more time. The whole bill from the Ministry of Labour is very necessary. I take the liberty of making that technical proposal so we don't have to vote again in two months. Thank you in advance for any support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u11	Thank you. Next, Mrs Šafránková is enrolled in the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. Let me just say briefly for our SPD club that we support the proposed measures presented under the Act on certain adjustments in the area of state social support benefits and the care allowance, where, in the context of limiting the physical communication of clients with labour authorities, it is possible for certain tested benefits of state social support for the period of the second quarter of 2020, when deciding on their amount, to waive the applicant's obligation to document revenue for the first quarter of 2020, based on the revenue from which the amount of these benefits paid on 31 March 2020 was determined, but at the same time there is nothing preventing the citizens who have changed their income rates at that time, to notify this Labour Office and to request a change in the amount of the contribution, as well as the proposal does not prevent the submission of new applications for these benefits of state social support. [[21.00 hours]] Our Members will also support the amendments that allow these exceptional conditions to be prolonged for the payment of these social benefits for the third quarter of 2020, provided that the full operation of labour offices is not restored as of 1 July 2020. We will also support a proposal that will allow the monthly amount of parental contribution to be changed to beneficiaries more than once per calendar quarter during the duration of emergency measures. Finally, colleagues, let me express my great thanks and support to all workers and workers of our labour offices and to the Czech Social Security Administration, who are facing an extraordinary rush of work these days and solutions to often unusual and new situations and problems in conditions where laws and procedures change literally on the move. It would be rude if they were forgotten. You have our admiration. And while I have the opportunity, I would also like to thank very much the workers of the Salvation Army of the Czech Republic, who are also doing a great and important work in the area of helping and care for homeless people in connection with crisis pandemic measures, which is an area where the state has quite forgotten and which I also pointed out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u13	Good evening. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. I thank the Member and Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová continues the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak with the opinion on this House press 798 for the KSČM MP club. Of course, we support these modifications presented by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, we perceive the need and, above all, not only is it related to the labour authorities' clients themselves, but, above all, here the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs addresses the situation of the labour authorities themselves. In any case, there was considerable debate on this House of the Press on today's Social Policy Committee, although there were not many amendments, it was actually the two that were presented here by Mrs Richterová and Mrs Gajdůškovášková. I must say that, with Mrs Gajdůšková, there is probably nothing against anything, we talked about the fact that the amendment was prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and we wanted to know openly why it was presented in the form of an amendment, why it was not part of the original proposal. That is, it is true that we understand the situation at all ministries that the necessary things are defined from almost an hour to an hour, from day to day, on the other hand, on the amendment, we are bothered by the fact that, on that one point, the effectiveness of Mrs Pastuchová's amendment is actually being postponed. And I believe that this should not be a matter of emergency in that area, and therefore we will refrain from this amendment by Mrs Gajdůškovášková, but I really say, only because of this situation, virtually. on this point, otherwise I am very sorry that the other measures which may be necessary to address within the framework of the employment office have also been associated with this. Thank you. And I apologise, I also wanted to say that in a detailed debate, I will read the accompanying resolution, which is not directly linked to this House press, but we did not load it at the point in the House Press 808 because we believe that it relates directly to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and it will concern preparing the financial support for those working in the labour agreements and work agreements due to the impact of the COVID-19 and the increase of the infirmary for approved groups of employees under the House Press 784 per calendar day to 80 per cent of the reduced daily base, because it was one of the requirements that we had in the emergency meeting last time, where we did not actually support the amendments that some Members' Clubs had here. We are very concerned that this request was not prepared for this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u15	Thank you, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, now Mr Jan Bauer, still in the general debate. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me a brief position on behalf of the Citizen's Democratic Party. I must say that I am very concerned about the contradiction between the way in which the assistance of the various sections of the population of the Czech Republic is announced at press conferences and, consequently, the texts of the laws themselves which I have the opportunity to monitor both on the Economic Committee and on the Committee on Social Policy. On the other hand, I would like to say that this is not the case with this House press, and I can say that it is also with the following press. I think that both of these prints, as the one we are discussing at the moment, are logical, technical things that can help a broad layer of the population, which is why I think they are not worthy of anything other than to be quickly approved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u17	I thank Mr Jan Bauer. I have now exhausted my applications for the general debate. I'm asking if anyone's checking in. With the final word of Mrs. Labor and Social Affairs Minister Jana Maláčová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u18	Thank you. Sorry, I'm just gonna take off my drape real quick, 'cause my Face ID isn't working, so sorry. I would like to say, in response to Mrs Richterová, that it is important to point out that in the second quarter we expect a general decline in revenue. That's probably predictable at this point. This means that we will have to come up with a more comprehensive adjustment in the coming weeks overall. That's why we decided not to flip for the third quarter at this point. As regards the rollover for the third quarter, in that amendment by Mrs Richterová, this is an indefinite condition, that is, if traffic is restricted to the employment office at 1. 7. For example, that all employees will be quarantined there, and we are already registering several such offices of work, so neither clients nor the employment office will know how to operate. To 1. 7. it must be applied for a housing allowance for the whole year - and this has been completely ignored in the amendment and only the income is tilted. As far as Mrs Aulická Jírovcová is concerned, we want to take off at this point, i.e. we do not want to judge the circles of the persons considered together, including the actual coexistence. If there is a quarantine at the employment office, it will be a risk, and a shift of up to one year is due to these requests in July. Therefore these proposals, therefore the amendment by Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. It really makes sense. It's really thought through. We apologise for coming up with this amendment only through Mrs GajdůGajdůšková's parliamentary proposal, but we are actually dealing with the situation on the move. And as far as the infirmary is concerned, at this point, we're counting the effects on the income of the 45,000 households that have applied for medical care at the moment. Sickbay doesn't run electronically like an incompetent. And if we actually find that the effects are fatal in the first month, then the infirmary -- the increase -- we're going to propose. So much for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u19	Thank you. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. We have therefore concluded the general debate, I am opening up a detailed debate. I would remind you that proposals must be justified. A resolution on a five-minute speech is in force. And the first in a detailed debate is Mrs Alena GajdůGajdůšková, who will be prepared by Mrs Richterová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u20	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, I hereby sign up for the amendment under press number 4817. Before I briefly justify, the reasons are also in writing in this press, I will reply to Mrs Richterová, why the amendments should not have been. Because most of these changes are to the detriment of those who receive the allowance. A change is usually made only to 10% of those who ask for it. And once again I stress, it is not affected by the right to change if one needs a higher contribution. That's what the Secretary of State guaranteed, so I say it repeatedly. The amendment has three parts. The first is the prolongation of what people collected until 31. 3. This means that the beneficiaries of these contributions will not be at 1. 4. show no changes, it will be purely an extension of the entitlement for the first quarter, the first quarter. Applicants will not have to demonstrate any duration of entitlement or fulfil any other reporting obligations, and thus the labour authorities will not have to process it. The second part of the amendment means that during the emergency period, it will be possible to change the unlimited monthly amount of parental allowance. It cancels the change condition after three months. Looks like a contradiction to the first proposal where the stability is anchored and it's prolonged, but with the parental contribution, it has to be said that the family is setting it itself. That's the family's decision. And today, when these people get into completely different situations from day to day, they need to be able to make that change, that's their decision. The third part - the effectiveness of the change in the heading of the jointly assessed persons for the housing allowance to take effect 1. 7. this year, it is to be postponed to the next period, i.e. efficiency from 1. 7. 2021. This is indeed a matter that we want to relieve the employees of the employment offices. They would have to process approximately 150,000 cases by that time on July 1st of this year, including an on-the-spot investigation. You'll admit it's just unthinkable at this point. We Social Democrats are always behind employees, people of work, everyone who needs support and help. Therefore, by this amendment, we want to facilitate the situation for those who are in such a bad situation that they reach the benefits of state social support and set the conditions for helping these people even now, when labour authorities and the Czech administration are really overloaded so that their employees can cope with these agendas and therefore help people. At this point, I would like to bow down to all those who work at the offices of work, but also in social services, and thank them very much for their commitment, for being willing to be in their workplaces for days and to isolate themselves from their own families just to protect their clients and those with whom they work. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, please put aside political competition and support this simple and administration-simplifying amendment. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u21	Thank you, Mrs Alena Gajdůšková. Now, Mrs Olga Richterová has time for an amendment in a detailed debate. And a colleague, Hana Aulická, will prepare herself. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u22	Thank you for the floor. I don't have anything to delay because I don't compete. I have put forward a simple technical proposal with two reservations. It's a proposal that I'm reading as number 4763. And I'm just gonna respond fast. On the committee, I asked explicitly if it was technically okay. Of course, we cared very much for him. And on the debate record, it was said that the proposal was eligible to become part of the rule of law, it had no problem not to become part of the law. The second reservation that you want to submit something better as a ministry, you want to evaluate and submit in the near future. I would simply say: sure, be sure to do it if you make it. And if you fail to do so, this amendment is a guarantee that we will not have to approve this purely because of the extension next time. And the third thing. I am reading in the proposal put forward by Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, explicitly, for the purposes of determining the entitlement to the housing allowance and its amount, for the second quarter is based on the facts on which the entitlement and the amount of the housing allowance paid on 31 March 2020. And I would ask the Minister to tell me how it fits with her words that there will still be a reduction, but also an increase in benefits. I was talking about the change in the persons considered together. When there's a different number of people in the apartment, it makes a big difference. And here the provision in Mrs GajdůGajdůšková's proposal makes it impossible to take this into account. So, please, Madam Secretary, let her explain where else in this proposal should the change be possible. I don't see it anywhere. And precisely because the time is turbulent and the housing allowance holds basically 150,000, but maybe even 200,000 households, I find it inappropriate to hit it so hard and fix it to the amount of 31. 3. I understand that, and I think it's a very, very good suggestion that everyone who doesn't have anything to change is just the first quarter. Please, no one likes to prove it, it's a lot of work to give the evidence. Anyone who doesn't know they're entitled, or that they have to come back, they'd be happy to blow it off. But where the number of people in the household would change, it just doesn't make sense to stop the recount. Well, thank you again in advance for explaining this. And I'm going to conclude that we just don't know how long the emergency is going to take. And if the Department of Labour and Social Affairs doesn't have time to present the improved, more complex proposal, then the simple technical changeling is a way to avoid discussing it here next time. I'd like to avoid that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u23	Thank you. And now the last speaker or speaker in the debate so far is Hana Aulická Jírovcová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be more brief today. Perhaps I would just like to say to Mrs Richterová that she might have argued in her amendment's argument with an amendment that was probably not loaded within the Social Committee, so maybe she and the Minister will still be able to settle it. I'm sorry. Anyway, for us the accompanying resolution, which I will read on this House's press, reads the whole: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government to quickly prepare I. financial support for persons working under the labour agreements and labour agreements, which, as a result of the impacts of the COVID-19, cannot be demonstrated to carry out their activities; II. increase of the paid infirmary for approved groups of employees according to the House's press 784 per calendar day to 80 per cent of the reduced daily base. Date to 20. 4. 2020." I think I said it before, so I'm not gonna say it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-003-006.u25	Thank you. And I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Madam Secretary? [[No.]] Madam rapporteur? It's not like that. In that case, under the agreement of the Members' Clubs, I shall conclude second reading, pending the conclusion of item number 5, i.e. printing number 813. I'll take a vote just in case. We will decide in the vote number 24, which I have launched, that we are interrupting press discussion 813. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 24. From 102 to 72, against no one. So we interrupted press conference 798. Let's continue with the point.
