ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u1	5. The draft law amending Act No. 159/2020 Sb., on compensation bonus in connection with crisis measures related to the occurrence of CORS CoV-2 /house print 850/2/ - returned by the Senate The item was interrupted yesterday in the debate. I'm not sure my colleague didn't have a debate. [[Voices from the O.R. No.]] So he was interrupted in the debate. I would remind you that the Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House press 850/3. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. Once again, I welcome Senator Šárka Jelínková. The Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová also took her place at the rapporteur's table. We will continue the adjourned debate. At the moment, Mrs Kovářová is enrolled in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I would like to finish our comments on the compensatory bonus for STAN and the impacts that this compensation bonus will have on the municipalities. Yesterday, the secretary said that the senát changed the rules of the game during the game. But according to our analysis we have, it's not. I don't want to argue here about what kind of analysis the Minister has.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u3	I'll stop you for a moment. I'm going to ask you who have something you need to say to each other in the lobby and not disturb the performers. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In short, and well, it is a question of two opinions, and it is probably not possible to have this debate here. However, what is clear is what the Minister told us yesterday that the concept of compensation bonus was the same from the beginning and was conceived as a return on personal income tax. And this message is important to me because, according to this communication, you, Madam Secretary, knew what outages of this compensation bonus and this construction would mean for municipalities and cities how significant a loss of income it would be. You didn't mention it anywhere, you didn't mention it at any press conference, and basically you kept this information de facto a secret about how the compensation bonus would go down on municipalities and cities. Of course, you can argue that in the explanatory memorandum, the impact on public budgets has been quantified. Yes, but if the opposition is submitting a bill that concerns outages for cities, municipalities and regions, then the proposal is returned to us or criticized that there are not specifically quantified impacts on the state budget, on municipalities and on the region. And how is it that the Ministry of Finance, in its explanatory report, only mentions the effects on public budgets? Where's the criticism? Then take the same subway. You also mentioned yesterday, Madam Secretary, that the policy we have here, the Senate, those who advocate for municipalities, cities and regions, is short-sighted and that the consequences must be borne by all, the municipalities and the regions. But, Madam Secretary, the municipalities in which life has been put to death for almost three months will reduce the income from shared taxes, which is very significant. According to estimates, they could lose up to 30 billion. And these are the consequences that communities and regions will bear. [[10.20 hours]] You, too, often comment on the fact that municipalities and regions must be grateful for the way in which they received material aid from the state. But more than half of the municipalities say they haven't seen a mask or a drop of disinfectant from the state. Also, many municipalities and cities and regions supported not only social services from their money but also local businessmen. Yesterday you also mentioned, Madam Secretary, that the city's tax revenues have increased by 44 percent in the last five years and regions by 50. You also like to mention that municipalities have large savings, in quotation marks, in their accounts. But more than half of the municipalities, more than 3,000 municipalities had less than CZK 8 million in their accounts at the end of last year. Because the large funds in their accounts have big cities, and they have them because big investments are waiting for them. As for the impacts, according to one survey, 10,000 investment projects worth CZK 8.5 billion will be cancelled in various municipalities as a result of the Corona crisis and 23,000 more will be postponed for more than CZK 27 billion. Yesterday it was also said that small municipalities needed help. Yes. No one doubts that. But the blackouts will affect everyone. And you say there's a lot of money in big cities. So Prague as the capital loses CZK 12 billion by estimate. Cologne, for example, by 47 million crowns. Plzeň announced that it postponed investments for half a billion crowns and canceled projects for another 170 million crowns. Zlín announced the suspension of investment for a quarter billion crowns. Brno estimates a decline in tax revenue to over a billion crowns and is about to reduce investment. So much for the situation that is already today. And allow me to continue. You call on the municipalities to invest. You're right. The municipalities are bigger and the regions are bigger investors than the state. Last year they invested, if I'm not mistaken, around 123 billion crowns. They've got projects ready. These projects are useful, they're for their citizens. And if you weaken their income, you will weaken the development and growth of the local economy. You'll also weaken the entrepreneurs because they won't have contracts. And in the end, it will fall on the citizens. You're talking about massive subsidies here. You're talking about analysis. Well, I've heard from kindergarten and school a year ago that it's going to be analyzed. And I'm asking - what are you still analyzing? We gave you a list of investment events for schools and kindergartens that are interested in, for the most part already with building permits, for $9 billion. However, if you imagine these massive subsidies as is the case today at the last grant at the Ministry of Finance precisely for those small municipalities up to 3,000 inhabitants, when 800 applications came and the probability of these municipalities receiving the subsidy is very small, it will reach about 40 municipalities from 800. And if you want to invest in municipalities in the form of subsidies, do it quickly. There was talk yesterday about the fact that grant titles are difficult for municipalities. There are 800 applications from the Treasury. Most of them would have succeeded. But there's not enough money. Those applications were submitted by the municipality. They're evaluated. Well, put the money in there and it can be built right away. The same applies to grant titles at the Ministry of Regional Development. In billions, there are overhangs to local communications, public buildings. Applications are submitted, evaluated. Then pour in the money from the government's budget reserve. You have investments all over the Czech Republic. And so you can move the local economy. [[Noise in the hall.]] In conclusion, let me say one thing. When I thought about what I was going to do here, I remembered the beginnings of the coronavirus crisis in the Czech Republic. We were all aware of the seriousness of the situation. We knew that we had to forget all the contradictions here in the House and we had to pull together, and we were called upon to sail on the same ship. And I must say that the opposition has gone to the government. She supported most of your proposals and tried to contribute with her own proposals. She tried to look for risks, fix them, expand the number of people who were affected and who needed help. Simply and well, we felt a sense of belonging. But gradually, the sense of belonging wears off. And you know why? Most of the opposition's proposals were essentially considered inappropriate and rejected. It's not a miss. That's a statement of fact. Gradually, at least for me and our club, from the point of view of the opposition, there was a phase where you began to take advantage of our proposals, opposition proposals. And what did we do as opposition? In short, we were grateful. When we knew the proposal was good, we voted in favour of the proposals. We closed our eyes, we just said, let's put it behind us, we need to help our citizens and our companies. Yesterday, various proposals were made to compensate for the blackout for the municipalities. Let me mention them. The government could compensate municipalities for this blackout in the form of a citizen contribution of CZK 1,100 and CZK 600. Another proposal was help per capita CZK 1,000 and CZK 400. And I would like to add one more proposal from our captain Martin Půta in the form of helping municipalities per capita CZK 2 000 and at the edge of CZK 1,000. This estimate is basically based on those estimates of blackouts complexly. And I, Madam Secretary, call on you, please, to steal these proposals from the opposition. And if not both of them, at least one of them. You won't be tried for stealing like this. On the contrary, everyone will praise you. And since you've thrown the villages and the counties overboard, at least throw them a lifeline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u5	Thank you. Next up, Mr Martínek is entered into the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement here for the pirát. We were originally only prepared to vote in favour of the House version if a sensible resolution had been adopted yesterday on compensation for cities, municipalities and regions. Unfortunately, yesterday only a lack of a proposal by the communists was accepted. However, MEPs YES and KSČM bailed on citizens living in cities with more than 3,000 inhabitants yesterday, on the edge and on small communities that will have a problem with grant applications. We will therefore also vote in favour of the Senate version. Although the state is indebting us with hundreds of billions, it is not even able to partially finance the losses of cities and regions that both citizens and the economy of the Czech Republic will unfortunately feel. Cities and regions do not have the opportunity to borrow as favorably as the state. Consider once again the possibilities to compensate for these failures so that we, as citizens of the Czech Republic, do not suffer from this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u7	Good morning, honourable Members. That was the last speech in the debate... My colleague Adamec, and I'm registering other applications. It's okay. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u8	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I will also try to say something about today's bill. I admit that yesterday was such a sad day for me, after those five hours eventually the result is no good, and I have to say that I am not worried about the next three or four months, but rather the autumn and the following winters, when various insolvencys, those secondary and similar things, will be a normal outage from tax collection. I don't want to scare anyone, but the situation here is going to be very complicated. What I was very sorry about, and the arguments were falling here, as the communities got rich, how they got rich, collected money on their accounts. It's not true. Those who were honest, who wanted the development of their municipalities so invested and have invested this year and will have great problems paying off the investments or somehow dealing with them. So whoever did the raging, acted like mayor, as a councilman, misguided council, who invested, behaved well, but he will be punished, wonder, the one who behaved well. For me, I would say, a great lesson - I do not like the word, but the lesson is that next time one must not be so naive and imagine that we are with the government, with the state in the same boat. And it should be that we're in the same boat. But now let me comment on the proposal that we have before us. You know, if you look at it with a cool head, there are hundreds, hundreds of years, and they've always been better for a while, worse, and by being here today, it turns out they finally made it. And I see the fundamental difference here in one thing between what we're actually risking accepting a Senate proposal, in that, in fact, the people we want to help, the middle state, the tradesmen, the three months had nothing, whereas, of course, the municipalities, when the cut-down that's still coming, they still have some money, they're better off, and I'm definitely saying again, it's stabilizing when this support ends, this package, but on the other hand, it's going to bring other secondary phenomena, which I'm afraid of more than this budget cut-down in that tax from the dependent activity of natural persons. Maybe it's for the government to realize that the proclamation that municipalities are breathing with the state, that we are one organism within the Republic, should be better fulfilled. I think so. The tendency of always the stronger one, which in this case is the government, is just to take where there is something, and just solve the problem by being paid by someone else. That's how I see it as a very bad procedure. I always say when someone orders something, they should pay. In the end, too much today, of course, no matter how we take it as a result, it's when you have the money and you can do something. That's just the way it is. We can say it's different here, but in reality it's like this, and the government has taken advantage of it completely. I think the Minister and the other ministers and the government coalition know very well what happened here yesterday, that it is not fair to the municipalities. It's not because municipalities can't just print bills like the state if I override it or increase our government debt because we're bound by some rules. It fell here that municipalities can take bonds. They would have taken them if it were convenient, except that the process that's there is very complex, and it would certainly be better to take a classic loan or some other money source. So I have to say for myself, and maybe I speak for more members of our Civil Democratic Party, that I will support the parliamentary proposal in this case, even though it is difficult for me to say so. I'm gonna support him because those people who are tied to that support, they're people who have nothing at the moment. We, the village, have something else. And I hope that the government and the government coalition will not go further this way, because it could really happen that we will also have nothing. So I will support the parliamentary proposal, I cannot support the Senate, because I really do think after the expert debate that the payment of the aid would be over. And I think that, considering all of us, none of us wants to do that, because then the aid declared would only be declared aid to the state, to us communities and to the regions, that is to be said, and it would not actually be meant seriously. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u9	I thank Mr Adamc. They are also enrolled from the post of Mr Krejza and Mrs Vostrá. Before I give them my word, however, Mr Bláha is registered with a factual remark, and before the table comes, I state two apologies received, namely Mr Jan Skopeček from 10 to 12.30 for work reasons and Mr Pavel Kováčik from 15.30 to the end of the day. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the foreman for the words that have been said here that really companies have nothing at all. Here yesterday, some Members laughed that some had lost 200 percent of what normally makes a turnover. So they really lost all their savings. So at this point, if we support them by voting off what's proposed, we're at least going to save the fact that we're going to put aside the time when you mayors will stop spending money in your cash, because believe that time will come and we'll all be far worse within six months, and that's because we're not able to make a deal here to save each other a little bit, because all those companies had to cut their mandatorial expenses, they clearly had to cut wages for all the employees, all the bonuses, all the extraordinary bonuses. Only the multinationals who could close and ask for compensation from the state, so of course they have easier. And it was said here that unfortunately, the honest ones would always take it away, and that is true of businessmen. Those who worked today are getting nothing out of state aid because the one who stayed at work is not entitled to any compensation. So I am in favour of supporting what is proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u11	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, then, Mr Krejza, Mrs Vostrá will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, maybe we can lighten this up a little bit, even if it's a difficult subject. In gymnastics, we know an element called Tkačevův's flight. So let's say it looks something like this. [[He's pointing his arms out.]] Then there's the Korbut loop Korbutová. It looks like this. [[It shows again.]] It's forbidden. And for the municipalities, this proposal was made by the Minister, and I would call it Schillerová's spiral. Here's the deal. [[It shows a spiral with its hands.]] And now it's just that the spiral for these communities doesn't end like this. [[He's pointing down.]] And I believe it's not that the communities can handle it. I'll explain why. It was not sufficiently stressed that the municipalities would participate in the compensation bonus. It may be a mistake for us Members, too, but in that legislative crisis, I mean, we almost didn't think it through, or didn't know it, simply. [[10.40 hours]] The municipalities were invited to invest. The municipalities were invited to help entrepreneurs. We have forgiven the rent, the reasonable municipalities have forgiven the rent. Reasonable communities have also supported entrepreneurs through their means. Basically, they need to forgive the rent further in order to obtain businessmen, entrepreneurs to support the rent provided by one of COVID's programs. And if we knew we were gonna be involved in another one, and I'm not questioning it, I don't think it's completely unfair, then maybe we'd be acting a little bit more reasonable. Despite everything that I am under the pressure of other mayors, I share the opinion of my fellow Adamec, that at this point I will support the parliamentary proposal, because I think that the priorities are somewhere other than saving the municipalities. And I think the 500, 700,000 entrepreneurs and businessmen need it more. The municipalities will just somehow make it. Still, I would ask Minister Schillerová whether she would consider and the government would consider some form of compensation in the future, since we did not agree on this yesterday, and the municipalities, even the larger municipalities, which are really investors, have the projects planned, can invest, if they have the funds, they can invest right away, they will return 50 percent, at least 50 percent of the amount invested straight into the state budget, to try to find the funds, because it is much easier for the state than it is for the municipalities. And as I'm saying, it might still be a lot more than 50. So I'll support the parliamentary motion, even though it's sophiiný's choice for me. And at this point, I ask the government and the Minister to think about the future, the short future, to compensate for this in some way for our costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u13	I thank Mr Krejza. I will ask my colleague Vostroa to be patient because President Jan Farský has applied with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u14	Thank you for the floor. It's been saying a lot of words in the last two days. And I think there are so many words that have led us away from the very nature, the nature of what we're debating here. What the government's proposal says is that we take some of the money from the municipalities that are guaranteed to them, take some of the state away, somehow use it, and then maybe someday return something to the municipalities. And there are two worlds here. The world of freedom, the free decision-making of self-governments that are guaranteed by the Constitution, and the centralized world that is on the other side. What is going to happen is that by moving money, the freedom of municipalities, the freedom of citizens to decide where their community is going to go. This decision will be taken by the government, because she will decide on the subsidies, she will determine how the municipalities are to develop, and part of the money will also be lost, because, of course, the administration will eat up the associated piece. The only one who gets in this is the government. She'll gain power. This will achieve what she lost years ago by strengthening the budgetary determination of taxes that the mayors didn't have to polish the doorknobs anymore, they didn't have to ask a few crowns for it or that, but they could just pay it out of the money they got out of the law. This freedom is now being taken by the government. I understand, and I respect, it fits into this government's decision-making, this coalition, and it's quite predictable. Everyone in power acts like that, of course, wants to have more power and control especially those who are rebellious. And these communities are rebellious, so are the regions. This will achieve that they will have to retreat in many cases, they will not be able to be so radical, because the government will keep them at their throats if it gives them the crown or does not give them the crown. We experienced this years ago at the time of the opposition treaty. And by the way, that was why mayors in many areas began to put themselves together, why they started organizing themselves, and why they also went on a political path. It's just that it's decided whether you have one of those famous politicians and not how good the project is for your community. With this step, by taking money from the municipalities and perhaps returning to the subsidies, we are going back 15 years. The people are getting their hands on themselves. They're losing their freedom. And that is the worst part of this proposal that citizens will no longer decide on the future of their community, but that will be the decision of the government with the municipalities. I understand it's your goal, but it's as simple as that. Everything else where the money goes isn't gonna go where it goes, it's just the sauce that was supposed to cover up the essence. Please, this is what we decide whether our citizens will decide freely or whether the government will decide. And whoever thinks it isn't, there was some evidence filed yesterday. We saw Minister Dostálová here quoting from her text messages how mayors may be asking her for some crowns. She didn't complain, she liked it. We've heard here a hundred times about the kindergarten in Semily that Mr. Babiš may have put money on. Even last December, on the Committee on European Affairs, he told me how I dare even have anything against him when he sends money to Semil. Well, he's not sending the money. It is the money of the European Union. And that's exactly the goal for which the government wants to take over the subsidies so that we can't afford to have anything against the government when it's so graciously giving us the money that it's taking from us now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u15	Thank you. Mr Kytýr, then Mr Václav Klaus - both factual points. A colleague of Vostrá will certainly have patience, as Mr. Juránek had yesterday. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm very sorry, but there are some things that I really can't stand. In the course of yesterday's and today's negotiations, I have heard speeches by many Members who have forgotten that we have all been aware of the cost of this law repeatedly. In the positive votes of both the budget committee and the plenary of this honourable House, we clearly knew that this would affect public budgets, and public budgets of both municipalities and local authorities. That is why I am very sorry today that I have to declare to the public that honourable Members - and I believe that most of these Members have not awakened, but I continue to believe that they will vote in the context of what they knew during the first and subsequent discussions of the House press, which was completed by Law 159/2020. This amendment, which extends the compensation bonus to small eseróčka, is only a small peak within the whole package, where the compensation bonus for the CFI is heading. That is why I assure the public that Members read the laws, Members know what the laws are about. And I believe that Members also continue to deal with these acts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u17	I thank you for keeping time on a point of fact. Mr Václav Klaus's point of view now. And Mrs Miloslava Vostrá is ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u18	I'd like to make a note of Mr. Farský's previous speaker. And I'm a little tired of the debate that anyone who's the mayor or the chieftain has to perform here in this debate to prove himself to their constituents in the city. I'm happy they have a kindergarten in Semily, I like the town, I used to ride a bike marathon there for years, until the local cross-country skiers sort of organized it. It's about what I'm performing for. You're absolutely right, Mr. Farský, it's not Mr. Babiš's money. It's taxpayers' money. But you can't say one thing, this kindergarten isn't... Mr Babiš did not give it money, it was given by the European Union, because it is exactly the same case. The European Union also has no money. First, the Czech state will collect it for nurses, teachers, entrepreneurs, people's taxes, take their money, then send it to Brussels by one order, and then, with the help of complex operating programs, you will get it back and finally, Mr. Babiš will give it to you for the kindergarten. So you can't argue like that. That's what I wanted to respond to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I ask everyone to address their colleagues through the President. Now the speech by Mrs Miloslava Vostrá. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u20	Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say here that the KSČM MP will support the House's version, on the grounds that at this time we are deciding whether or not to suspend the funds for them. Please, and it's not money for business, it's for the survival of those people, for their basic needs, so they have a way of paying cash to pay their phones. This isn't about developing a business or keeping a business, it's about people having the basic needs. Of course, this is against the blackout, as has been mentioned here. I would only, Mr President, by your means to my colleague Martínek. You know, yesterday's resolution - I get it, toothless and somewhere - but the resolution was perfectly consistent with what we've been talking about all along. That's what Mrs. Kovářová said today. The projects and the small communities up to 3,000 are ready. These projects will accomplish absolutely everything. Let's not underestimate the small communities and the mayors. Their overhang is there for several billions, there's nothing to stop when the government here declared by the Minister's mouth that it will fill in the subsidy programs that are already, where the applications, where the applications have already been evaluated, will be filled with funding. There is nothing to prevent that in a very quick time - and please, I just remind you that yesterday the resolution included the deadline of June 16th, so that the money could be released to the municipalities and immediately small projects, which, of course, give the billions in those amounts, started to work immediately, whether they were grant titles at the Ministry of Finance, at the Ministry of Regional Development, etc. These projects are also prepared for small municipalities and are instantly able to implement them. Now we really are ahead of this choice. I repeat once again that we will support the House version precisely in order to avoid any suspension and time slips of payment of the compensation bonus for the self-employed and small eseróčka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u21	Thank you. With the factual remark of colleague Lipavský, then colleague Martínek. You have the floor, colleague, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u22	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I'm just taking the liberty of responding to Mr Klaus. When he was talking about taxpayers' money, and he listed the professions, he forgot to mention that, in the case of European funds, they are mainly German nurses, etc., because the Czech Republic is still a net beneficiary of these subsidies. So it was such a detail that he left out in his post. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Martínek also made a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u24	I'll briefly see Mrs. Pre-Speaker Vostrá. What I said is still true. Members of the ANO and KSČM movement have abandoned citizens living in municipalities over 3,000 inhabitants. There will just feel those people and even the smaller villages, there will be a lot of problems to make a request at all and most of them will not get to it. So did you ditch the edge and others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u25	Thank you for keeping time. Now a factual comment by Václav Klaus, then by Petr Gazdík. My colleague Benešík will wait. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u26	I would have responded to Mr Lipavský by means of you. Well, of course, the total balance -- you're right, the numbers are narrowing down, so it's not from the overwhelming majority of German nurses, that's what you told the lie. The important thing is what it's used for. Yeah? Because if the mayors get the money straight and they can use it themselves, of course, there will be an infinite amount of money, because we will get some money from those Swedish nurses, but it will apply to inclusion, gender audit and to a thousand and one bullshit that the Czech citizen doesn't need at all. I was the headmaster of the school. I got a package of money in the '90s, I had to do it by 31. I spent the 12th, and I could build ladders in a gym or improve a chemical lab or something. That's all over, and now, with the help of various grant recipients, a person like you ask has 67 thank-you signs, and for 40 years, it's like he's been registering for inclusion or for those operating programs that he's been written up for. So it's not like it's some kind of beautiful gift. It is more that money is less for Godly projects than it was.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now a factual comment by Petr Gazdík, then a colleague by Marek Výborný. My colleague Benešík is still on hold. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I must protest because what you're doing here is causing instability. The fact that mayors will be able to polish doorknobs at different ministries does not mean that the money will actually reach the municipalities. And what's worse - it's going to bounce back on businessmen. Tomorrow, my community will suspend projects worth about CZK 3 million, which would be awarded to local companies and tradesmen as a contract. A total of about 15 billion, probably more. You create instability, you create fear in municipalities to invest. And that's the worst thing you can do in this situation. And now the KSČM has clearly opposed the municipalities, even the smallest ones. And to advise you to go polish handles at different ministries - don't be angry, it's stupid and corrupt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. A real comment by Mr. Výborný, Pastuchová and Vostrá. My colleague Benešík can calm down because he will be outrun by his chairman of the club with priority rights after he has exhausted his factual remarks. My colleague Excellent has the floor to a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u30	Thank you for your kindness, Mr Vice-President. I'm not going to debate any German nurses. I think there's something else going on here. Communists, the ANO movement, the Social Democrats simply threw communities, cities and regions overboard. That's what this is all about. They just won't have the money that those municipalities would logically have from shared taxes. You're creating a system here. You here graciously then, on the basis of perhaps some subsidies, on the basis of the resolution of the KSČM only those small municipalities - what will the others do, what will the community do, which has 3,500 inhabitants and so on? They won't get a crown. They don't get a crown, it's shameful. I'm really shocked by the socialist approach. I wonder what your captains will tell you. If you could support at least some appropriate resolution by your Vice-President here, you voted against him. When it didn't work out twice, it worked the third time when you guys got together. It's a disgrace, it's an attack on municipalities, cities, our citizens. Unfortunately, none of you realize that. You are all sitting on councils of councils, so you who will vote for the House version today - on top of everything here you are facing communities, cities, regions and entrepreneurs, businessmen, small eseróčka. It's not like that at all. We all want to help them. The government, of course, can do it. All she had to do was understand it and use it either in the form of support for the Senate proposal or in the form that we recommended her here yesterday and to which she, including the Prime Minister, is silent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Pastuchová's factual point. A factual comment will be prepared by Mrs Vostrá. Then a colleague Benešík, Čižinský and Vondrák. You have the floor, Madame, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Only briefly for Mr Martínek by your means. Government - ask for example in our Liberec region how many regions have given rescue fees. Our government sends $1.2 billion to the rescue services, so it helps the regions - 3.2 billion - so it really helps the regions. I'd turn against this, you say the government doesn't do anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, the factual remark made by Mrs Miloslava Vostrá. My colleague Benešík is next. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u34	Thank you for the floor. Mr Gazdík, through Mr President, maybe - forgive me for saying this now, I respect you very much, but I judge you in my opinion. There was no mention of mayor polishing doorknobs anywhere. I have said here that there are hundreds of projects - Mrs Kovářová will confirm - for small municipalities, I would say very well built, at the Ministry of Finance, for larger municipalities at the Ministry of Regional Development. The projects are already there, they are evaluated, the municipalities are under us like this, and the only thing that prevents it is that there is not enough funds. That's why what we approved yesterday and what we're asking the government to do, with a deadline of 16. 6... it's to put the money there. Those communities have it filed, it's evaluated, it's sorted. Now it's just about putting the money there, both in finance for small municipalities and at the Ministry of Regional Development for those large municipalities, and no mayor has to go anywhere to polish the handle. These projects have been evaluated, please. Don't give us something that's not true. I get it, it's good to hear that we threw someone overboard, but believe me, we're the last ones who wouldn't want to deal with this. And I also understand that the election is coming. I understand. So these proclamations, I'd say sharp pronouncements, I understand they're going to sound here, and it's legitimate. I've been through a lot here. But for God's sake, let's listen to each other! Let's hear each other out. Now let's figure out the self-righteous, little eseroga, so that it doesn't stop, so that it goes on, and in the next 14 days - and believe that we will be the first to want to be at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies... [[Time warning]] Excuse me - and I think it's coming up for a variable week so the government can present it to us. [[once again notice of the time]] I'm coming, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u35	Now, colleague Ondřej Benešík, with a factual remark, will prepare a colleague Čižinský, then a colleague Vondrák, Pekarová, Gazdík, Pastuchová. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u36	Thank you for your word. Shortly to European funding. We regularly discuss the position of the Czech Republic on the European Committee. That position is nearly 50 billion. Last year, about 47. That means yes, we're going into a common budget, but we're going to get about 50 billion out of it in a year. More than we can lead into it. When it comes to projects, I, as a long-term municipal politician, as a former mayor, say that we have purchased a sewage treatment plant from European funds for nearly 50 miles. Kroner, we got a water treatment plant for nearly 20 miles. The crown, so I could go on. We did this at a time when we had around 6 million dollars left to invest in the budget as a community with 3,600-3700 inhabitants. Crowns. But we didn't invest about 20 or 25 miles during the time I was concerned, but about 120 miles. Crowns. It was thanks to European subsidies. Whether everyone simply evaluates whether the gender and the things I don't even like are supported by this, outweigh or not. And if this is a debate about the 25-year-old, we're not really taking the money - and that's what's really going on here - to the mayors, we're taking the money to the municipalities and their citizens, and we're taking it for investment. Not every reasonable mayor closes the school, doesn't close the library, they run on, that's mandatory or quasimandatory expenses. What he's gonna do is limit the investment. And of course, these investments are mostly for local or regional firms. That's just the way it is. We're moving the money from one pocket to another, and I'm saying that on the way over, the money gets lost, and we're moving it into a leaky pocket from the one that's big!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u37	Now your time has ended for a point of fact, Mr. Colleague. Now, my colleague Čižinský, my colleague Vondrák, will be prepared with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u38	Thank you. But let's see what the communists, the ČSSD and the YES are doing and what other solutions it might have. We all agree that there is a need to invest in the crisis, so we can all together ask the government to complement the funding for projects by small municipalities. But that has nothing to do with what we're discussing here. We should simply want both, and at the same time we should want the government to say on Monday or Tuesday how to supplement the finances we are now deciding into the budgets of the regions and municipalities. But you don't want that because you didn't vote for it. So what's going on here is an abuse of the crisis to get more funding under control.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ivo Vondrák, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Pekarová. You have your word, Mr. Governor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u40	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. If anyone thinks we're happy in our country and our government that we're going to have to face a loss of 1.3 billion, then of course they're wrong. It's a big hit on our budgets, and it's gonna be hard. But we have to figure out who's filling these funds. It's filled with the entrepreneurs who live in the region, live in our communities, and somehow implement the budgets there. So we have no choice but to help these entrepreneurs. There's no other way. Yes, it's true, we agreed on some help yesterday, it's a risk whether we get the money or not. I'll just be happy to get them, which means we won't feel those losses and we won't have to decompose our investments too long in time, but I still consider it less risk than the fallen business sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Pekarová, my colleague Gazdík will be prepared, also with a factual point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u42	Thank you for the floor. I think it's crucial to hear from you when lies are ringing on this microphone. And there were lies here from Mr Klaus. Unfortunately, he is no longer sitting here, but nevertheless, through the President, he should find out how much money the Czech Republic has received within the European Union for its 15-year membership. Overall, we have contributed about 617 billion to the common budget. Kroner, but we got 1 430 billion. CZK, i.e. net position for 15 years of membership was 809 billion for the Czech Republic. CZK and these are mainly in the so-called hard projects, i.e. in investment, in roads on which we drive, schools that are therefore warmed or built, sewage treatment plants and others. That is the money from the French, German, Italian and until recently also the British taxpayers, Mr Member through the President. And very briefly about what we've been dealing with here since yesterday very passionately. It says here that we can help Czech companies and businessmen with this. But if we leave money to municipalities that can continue to invest in projects that they already have prepared, they are often already in the process of realization, so we give it to the people of companies and businessmen, and that is the best form of help. So, please, let's vote for the Senate version. The Senate has fixed very well what we haven't done here, and now we have a chance to fix it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Before I give the floor to Petr Gazdík, my colleague Pastuchová, then my colleague Foldyna, will be prepared to ask the House for peace, because I am measuring time, I cannot interrupt the speaker to calm the House, because I would take that time away from him. So, once again, I ask the House to calm down and move the debates that concern something else into the foyer. You have your word. I'm taking your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u44	Dear colleague Sharp through Mr President, I also respect you very much, and precisely because I respect you, so technically. You know very well that these projects are probably, as the Minister of Regional Development said, 1,140 at the Ministry of Regional Development, hundreds more at the Ministry of Finance. Those who used to polish the doorknobs now have the projects, and maybe they'll get money for them. But what about the other 4,000 small towns that just didn't polish the doorknobs that, like my community, wanted to help themselves, didn't need to go anywhere, and now those investments have to stop. You're supposed to do what, please? Do they have bureaucrats to go anywhere, ask, write applications, and choose other grant titles instead of investing as soon as possible in times of crisis, helping entrepreneurs and not stopping projects? I'm telling you that half of the investment or half of the crisis creates instability and, unfortunately, this is a step that you are creating a huge instability for the community.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Pastuchová, then a colleague of Foldyna, then a colleague of Vostrá. Well, you have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u46	I'm just going to make it very clear briefly that it's not controversial, that I said 3 billion 200. It was a billion 200 for the rescue services. But it is also sent to those regions for social services, for which they are also founders of regions. So really, Mr Martínek, through you, he doesn't really cough on the edge.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u47	Thank you for keeping Mrs Pastuchová's time. Now, Mr Foldyna, with a factual point, then Mrs Vostrá's factual point. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u48	Thank you for the floor. When I listened, the discussion that was going on here, and here was argued by what we were getting out of the European Union and what we are putting in there, but it is not really here to argue at all what costs us the application of a whole series of nonsense that the European Union and the European Commission are making up. See GDPR and see a number of things that we have to pay at the moment, and the increase in administration and bureaucracy that have grown in the Czech Republic. We canceled the counties and we called the small districts. Today, the regions are buying more and more houses and we are creating and creating them, because European bureaucracy is engulfing us with hundreds and thousands of different administrative acts that we have to pay. And they regulate our industry, they're still inventing some environmental issues that are often nonsense, and the only one who likes it is the German industry, when the excesses of the German budget are high. So let's not overdo this stuff. Second thing. We're talking about money from city and county budgets. We're making decisions about someone here. Did we ask the county? What is the position of the Association of Regions, what are the views of the Union of Towns and Municipalities on the action we are doing here? Here, mayors and a whole bunch of people from practice argue clearly and intelligibly what this means to them. I listened to Mr. Gazdík. We rarely agree with each other, but I'm sure in this. I mean, we can't at the expense of helping these people, really, or taking the chance to survive the problem. I think we should look for other ways. And that way, like I said here, it's just the state register. The cashiers of these cities, communities and regions will not solve this, we will make the situation worse for these people. That's what I wanted to point out, and that's the SPD's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u49	Time's up. Now, if I have understood correctly, Mrs Vostrá, then the factual point of Mr Kalousek. I'm still registering priority rights after Mr Bartošek's factual remarks. I'm measuring time, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u50	Thank you for the floor. I'm not doing this anymore. I'm just going to respond to my colleague Gazdík. Mr Gazdík, I am fully aware that there are many municipalities that are now suspending projects because there is not enough money. But we're talking about a blackout with a compensatory bonus, but we do know that the blackout in the tax collection can be expected in other taxes, not just because of the compensation bonus. So this is where we need to set up the funding for municipalities and regions not only by the end of 2020, but also in 2021, so that the municipalities and regions know what they can count on. That is the second part of yesterday's resolution. And that term on the 16th is there for the government to present to us here how it wants to do it. There is a proposal for a solution for municipalities, regions, investments, 2020 and 2021. So we haven't forgotten the communities that want to help themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u51	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Miroslav Kalousek's point of order now. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u52	Thank you. I already said it yesterday, maybe it's gone, maybe I'll do it again. I guess we just agree that whoever pays is in charge. And if we deprive the municipalities of their autonomous income, which is their legal income, and we replace it with central subsidies, it is simply a strengthening of central power over democratic self-governments. It is, in my view, a very damaging deviation of power towards the centre, it is a violation of the principle of democratic subsidiarity. And if you want to violate the principle of democratic subsidiarity and you want to strengthen central power, then do not approve of the Senate proposal. But it is simply true that whoever pays so commands, and you are now deflecting the vertical balance of the division of power in the country for the benefit of the central government at the expense of democratic local and regional authorities. Nothing more, nothing less.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u53	Thank you. Now a factual remark from my colleague Bělica. Once again, I will ask the House for peace before I begin to measure time. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u54	Hello, Prime Minister, Mr President, Madam Secretary. I've been listening to the discussion in detail all along, and I think it's quite carefully. We must be aware that we are facing an absolutely extraordinary situation. As has already been done here, I don't think anyone is and wasn't happy about the measures. It affects our entire society, the whole republic, and not just the municipalities. And yes, it is true that communities that have managed better can handle the situation better than those who have not done so well and have not invested in their development in the past. I think the solution approved by the House with which the government came is good, it is quick, and it will bring the degree of support to the business environment and the tradesmen that are needed in that place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u55	Thank you and I will now ask if my colleague Benešík still insists on his proper application, because I have agreed with the chairman of his club that he will keep the order. You have the floor in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I just want to say one thing. What we want today, or do not want to approve, is simply unsystemic and unfair. We're really moving money from one pocket to another, and I'm actually saying that we're gonna lose some of the money in the process and that we're gonna deprive the municipalities of the opportunity to invest - municipalities, cities and regions. And the investments would, of course, go to businessmen. Trust me, that's just how it works. The mayor or the deputies won't cross out the mandatorial expenses. They can't do that. They'll just cut back on the investment. And in our country in Stráž, really multinational companies do nothing to us; we simply do not have such projects for multinational companies. And I think that in a number of municipalities, probably mostly, that's true. Maybe it's not like that in bigger cities. And it's just unsystemic, it's really chaos. And I think the chaos - and I have great patience and great understanding, because we are in an extraordinary situation and we are all trying, not just the government, to help, but the chaos and the ignorance demonstrate how we are doing here with our masks. Does anyone even know when we should have them and when we don't? When I look at the House, I think only the Minister of Health knows. And maybe I'd ask him to tell us not to break the rules when we should have it and when we shouldn't have it. Because I really don't know what's right when I look for the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u57	This was not related to the topic of debate, but I am tolerance alone. Chairman of the KDU-ČSL club Jan Bartošek with priority rights, so far last registered for the debate. In order not to interrupt you, too, Mr President, I will ask the House again for peace, and I would really like us to be able to conclude the debate, and we will not - well. Well, hopefully the noise level's down. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. There have been many arguments. In the end, it's where the money comes from. But what is more important to me and below is the message that this government is unpredictable and that no one can be sure of how this government will treat it. If the government claims that it will not reach into municipal money and do so, it does not fulfill the promise. And I think that there is a very bad message not only to city representatives and municipalities, but also to business. A government that doesn't keep a word is unpredictable and can treat you in any way that she likes and fits. It's not the government, it's the will. [[11.20 hours]] Mr. Governor Vondrák here, through Mr. President, says there is no other way. Mr. Governor and representatives of cities and municipalities, she is. If this government had said that it would pay from the state budget, not at the expense of cities and municipalities, that was the road here. Of course, the compensation bonus is right, it is okay and it is right to support entrepreneurs, whether businessmen or eseróčka. Because we live in those cities, and we know it's the blood of those cities. But it's the right thing to do with the state budget. I'm just saying there was another way. It was just about how it's gonna stand. And it needs to be realised that the decline in the incomes of municipalities and cities and regions will be for three reasons. First, the decline in the economy, second, the construction of the tax bonus and third, the press that awaits us on Friday. And I'm calling it forward here to make you realize that the government is going to do another thing that goes into the budgets of cities, municipalities and regions, as the bill is designed. So it doesn't end today. And I'm telling you, I insist that a better option is the House version. If you decide to support the House version, I am telling you for yourself that the story is not over, because I have already put an amendment in the system that allows the budgets of municipalities and regions not to be cut short. He's already in the system. And if you're serious about supporting communities and regions and not touching their money, then if you don't vote for the Senate version, you can do the reparatus on Friday. If you don't mind the method of payment or the amendment or anything. On Friday, you can prove that you really care about cities, towns and regions and their budgets and that you don't want to cut them short. I thank the Association of Local Authorities, who helped me with this amendment. I hereby call on you to resolve this with this press by the Senate. In the event that this is not the majority, you already have the opportunity to resolve it on Friday from the state budget, not at the expense of cities and municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u59	Thank you. Now, Mr Marian Bojko. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, dear government, dear colleagues, I would like to share my experience with you from my parliamentary office when several citizens visited me on Monday in Karvina, and I confess that after their departure, I have long thought about what is going on in this case. I would especially like to address the Minister of Finance through Mr President. You know, a citizen came to me who actually has two small restaurants, couldn't do business for more than two months and applied for the COVID. Unfortunately, he didn't get it because he has a $4,000 income from the board of directors, so more or less because he's on the board of directors of one business, he lost $40,000. Well, I didn't know that was possible. Then a medic came to me studying fifth year medicine. At the same time, he is a self-employed, has a small café where he has two employees. And it was actually called into arms, as fifth-year medics are already able to function more or less in the hospital. And she had an income of CZK 7,200, and she didn't actually reach the COVID either. And then there were married couples who had a little eseroga where the two of them are together, and they're still employees of their own. And actually, they've been out of income for a few months, and they've decided after 30 years that they're gonna sell the restaurant, and they're over 60 years old. Unfortunately, they're counting on the situation to be repeated, maybe several times. And you know how it is - today a man who has a restaurant or a car dealership doesn't have a chance to get a mortgage, even if he's young because he's at risk. I admit that I didn't know it at all, that if you have a levy on some other dependent activity, or the person who takes 4,000 from that board of directors, there's no chance of getting a COVID at all. Well, then I'm really shocked that the man was left with no money. In addition, these people usually have waitresses young girls or young moms who have children, and so they get to work - I understand that they don't want to work when they have infirmary by the end of June. So some people didn't even open the restaurant because they can't do it alone, they don't have staff. So I think the system is so unfair. When someone had a minimum or a small income, they were supposed to pay it back to the 25,000, or just give it to everyone across the board. I don't understand. I'm not an economist. But the man who lost $45,000 seems awfully unfair to me. Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary, if that's possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u61	Thank you. I register the application for a factual remark by Miroslav Kalousek and then with priority rights by Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u62	Thank you. I'm just making a brief remark to my previous speaker. Probably, even though he was talking about COVID, he probably meant a compensatory bonus. But what's important is to remember that we had a very heated debate about this when we approved the first compensation bonus law, about the cases he was talking about. And that the situation was brought about by the adoption of an amendment by a Social Democratic Member who had only been through three votes and actually created this injustice. I'm bohužel so. It wasn't even a government proposal. It was an amendment by a Government Member of Social Democracy who arranged this injustice. Then tell Karvina!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u63	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura, duly signed up for debate. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to convey the SPD's position on this proposal, which we have been discussing for about five, six or seven hours. As regards the amendment to the Act on Compensation Bonus in relation to crisis measures related to the occurrence of coronavirus, which is intended to help businessmen, the SPD sees the problem that, according to the current version, this bonus would go to the expense of municipal and regional budgets. In fulfillment of this forecast, municipalities would lose more than 11 billion. CZK, more than 4 billion to the region. CZK, because the compensation bonus is called. the refund of personal income tax on dependent activities. This would, of course, cost municipalities and regions the opportunity to invest in the benefit of citizens to improve their living comfort. Of course, we do not agree that the compensation bonus from one third is paid out of money intended for self-government, because we think it should be paid directly from the state budget. Members of the SPD are pushing us to adopt a version that will not impose on municipalities and cities to draw money from their budgets. In this context, the SPD considers that aid to businessmen cannot be at the expense of self-government. The government of the Czech Republic must not cut money to cities and municipalities for investment and development. This can deepen the crisis. And it seems to me a bit of a contradiction when the Prime Minister, on the one hand, says that municipalities and cities should invest, and on the other hand, he's taking the money away from them. And that, of course, is contrary. Either one or the other. The SPD movement considers investment by cities and municipalities to be an important tool for improving the quality of life of citizens and supporting regional local companies, i.e. employment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u65	Thank you. I don't have anyone registered for the debate. If no one reports from the scene, I am done with the debate. So I'm asking about the final words. Madam Secretary is interested. prosit, Madam Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate, which has been very interesting at times, and allow me to sum up just a few words. I'm not going to repeat what I said yesterday, just in my words, humanly explain to you what the genesis of this support was, a compensatory bonus. At the very beginning, we were discussing this, and we wanted it to be subsidies from the state budget. We were discussing who would process them. We thought, we were thinking about the MIT, but on this massive scale, when the trade authorities were already paying sickbays, that was not possible. And we were looking for a form of how to handle such massive support for such a large number of entities, and we came to the simple conclusion that the only government body that is gifted with infrastructure, IT equipment and experience is the Financial Administration. Then we were looking for forms to see if the Financial Administration could do it so it could go from the state budget. It's not possible. Financial administration cannot pay subsidies. It is not a government authority that is gifted with this authority. It is an institution which, by its nature of activity, is to control subsidies and not to pay them. The compensation bonus is nothing new. That's not something we'd make up for this purpose. The compensation bonus in tax law, in the Income Tax Act, has been for many years. And it's paid at a time when, thanks to low income, the taxpayer wouldn't actually be able to lower the discount because he doesn't have that kind of income, so the so-called bonus will pay him. So it was nothing new. It's a so-called negative or negative tax. So we took advantage of the fact that we have the Financial Administration authorities here. We have a possibility that they can pay the compensation bonus, and that's what we built it on. And the fact that our intention was good is ultimately confirmed by many of you, too, from among the opposition, because you actually say that this is the help that works probably the fastest and best. Just that 700 thousand applicants have asked, some of them repeatedly in the second wave, and the money has been received within two, three days tops, shows that the program actually works. That is why, in essence, this path has been chosen. Yesterday you've been here all day debating the complexity of the subsidies. You said it was difficult, that you just have to fill out the applications, and now you're calling, please, some of you, I'm going to personify it right now, you're calling for these amounts, 25,000, 44,500 in total, to make applications for subsidies. I just don't really understand. I'm not gonna respond to a whole bunch of comments here yesterday... I had it all set up yesterday, but we're just somewhere else. There were proposals. We called to tell you to do the waitress now. We have proposed this in the amendments, but I have always made it clear from this point that we will be dealing with the Eserócs, but I could not agree with the amendments. Not because they were opposition, but because they were unapplicable. There was no minimum turnover. Any dead mailbox would get it. That was the amendment, which I do not blame you for. We have the apparatus, of course, but we just had to prepare it to prevent it from going, the money, like tax havens. And you have to discuss these things. I'd like to say that those laws, and 38 percent of all the code laws were prepared by the Treasury Department, and I have the records checked with the Office of the Government, and we literally wrote those laws overnight. So is the compensation bonus. Thank you repeatedly to the representatives of the unions and chambers involved. The Chamber of Tax Advisors, namely, I would like to highlight engineer Hajdušek. The Association of Trade and Tourism, AMSP, Chamber of Commerce, which contributed by stimulating comments to the fact that this is indeed a very functioning instrument of assistance. Right here, some of you said it wasn't supposed to replace a business blackout. It's supposed to help them get through this difficult time, and, of course, by overcoming it, by getting the money, somebody here said it, I talked about it yesterday, there's going to be some multiplication, and eventually it's going to manifest itself in all the revenues of public budgets. We never kept it a secret. The explanatory memorandum indicates the impact on public budgets. And just between you and me, the debate was going on here, there was a first draft compensatory bonus. No one mentioned it here. I, even President Kalousek, remember some of your amendments, which raised the compensatory bonus, if I am not mistaken. That means the impact would be even greater in the shared taxes. So let's face it, let's face it, let's face it, let's face it. You're suggesting... I said really, and I stand by it, yesterday I put forward a whole series of clear legal arguments here, I conducted the debate in a factual and legally theoretical way, I can repeat them, but I will not do so because I think I spoke for a long time yesterday. I really, very much warn her to go through the Senate version, because I would have to stop the payment of the compensation bonus with immediate effect. And it's not about the way someone said to me yesterday: you have to do what the law says. I can't. I cannot fulfill something where I would violate the law and expose myself, aside from, of course, the SAO's controls, other bodies, but also criminal prosecutions. It's just not possible. And you say here, from many sides it has been said, I think it is from you, Mr President, that I see you here, that you are talking about some future times. You say - weaken, collect. But the law is long overdue. We paid about 13 or 14 billion. I can give you the exact numbers. This means that about half of the compensation bonus is paid. And we're talking, which means - since when? The Senate version doesn't talk about whether we should change it backwards from the beginning. It can't even go backwards. If it was a grant, it couldn't be backwards. That's genuine retroactivity, unacceptable. Who you're sitting here as lawyers, you know what I'm talking about. It's unacceptable retroactivity. I'd just have to stop it, 'cause that's where it's gonna come from, who's gonna pay it off, we're gonna get to the beginning. To the beginning when we asked ourselves these questions and dealt with them. And we didn't find a solution for them, we didn't find an answer for them, which is why we chose this form. And as a result, these people have the money in their accounts, and we're still paying off, and of course, the Eseros are waiting for it. I don't want to be nasty. I really want to make my closing statement at peace, and I don't want to say, that means, you guys who say I didn't say it at a press conference, maybe I didn't. I really don't know. I'm sure I was talking about the impact on public budgets, but now I don't want to worry about it. So I'm asking, you didn't know what you were voting on? I don't think so. You guys always know what you're voting for, so there's no way I'd want to give you that. You have designed a form of some kind of bonus or some sort of one-off compensation, excuse me, in the amount of, I suspect, CZK 1,000 and CZK 400, so 1,400 per capita. And I'm asking - what's it gonna solve? What's it gonna solve? I've pulled out small communities. High Lhota, 15 inhabitants, gets 15,000 crowns. Then I pulled out the Holovés, 66 inhabitants, and he gets 60,000 crowns. Prague, 1.3 million inhabitants, 1.8 billion. That's where it's multiplied by the fact that it's a county at the same time. So what's it gonna solve? Isn't there a better grant policy where x projects are prepared here? And we can talk about an accessory that may not be 70-30, but it could be 90 to 10. Isn't this a better way? Where do we support and help investments that we can support? It's the only legal way. [[11.40 hours]] And I'm not gonna comment on any of the different attacks of some kind of corruption or anything like that. This is a transparent process given by law, which is subject to control. Consider that abuse of the subsidy is a criminal offence. That means, we would like to expose the businessmen on the one hand, and they would wait maybe months for someone to process these subsidies, because the Financial Administration couldn't do it, and we're saying that it's out of the question for the municipalities. I'm done, last sentence. Some of you here said it was sophiiný's choice. I don't think it's sophiiný's choice. sophiiný's choice was that the mother had to choose between her two children, which is absolutely unimaginable to every mother. This isn't sophiiný's choice. This is the choice to help quickly the most vulnerable, the most necessary and, of course, in the next phase to help the municipalities. So I really appreciate all those - and I look both to the right and to the left - of all those who raise your hand for the variant as amended by the Chamber of Deputies, because immediately the Financial Administration, once signed by the President, if it passes today, starts paying the money. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u67	Thank you, Minister of Finance, for the final word. I ask the Senator - but Miroslav Kalousek has previously signed up with priority rights as chairman of the MP's club. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u68	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, you said that you would explain this to us in a human and reconciliation manner, the tone of your voice was also consistent with that. I will also try to be human and atone for. But unfortunately, you weren't telling us the truth. I think, but I don't want to have this legal dispute, but I think it's your legal construct that there is a way to pay off the government's budget reserve. But please, even if you were a thousand times right - I repeat, I do not want to have this legal dispute - but it was the only reason why your legal interpretation, why it must be from shared taxes, if this were the only reason, so it was not the slightest problem to support you yesterday at least the motion for a resolution of your coalition partner, Mr Veselý, and to say yes, I had no choice in law other than to reach into shared taxes, i.e. autonomous municipal income, but, of course, I will compensate those municipalities at the earliest opportunity. Thank you, Mr Veselý, for your proposal, which we will all support, and we will compensate those municipalities within a few weeks. Then I'd trust you to tell us this in a human and true way. But you're acting like you can't believe it, because you've quite a very expressive way of telling your coalition partners what they can expect the next time. And I am afraid that this approach also includes the budgets of municipalities and cities and, as a result, all citizens of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u69	Thank you. Now, the senator's final word. Before the word goes down, I'm saying I'm sorry. Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes between 14.30 and the end of the day, and from 14.30 to 15.30 she apologizes for work reasons Milan Hnilička. Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u70	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, Mr President, Prime Minister, honourable Members of the government, honourable Members, Members. I also thank you for the big, important and trash debate, thank you for all the suggestions that have been put forward here and have advocated not only the Senate bill, but also the budget of cities, municipalities and regions. I want to assure you that, in the event of the adoption of the compensation bonus law, as amended by the amendments adopted by the Senate, I want to express my great confidence in the Minister of Finance that she will find her way, she will find finances in the state budget, for example. in the government budget reserve, as has already been said here, but I am, of course, far away to advise the Minister. Surely you can find in the state budget the necessary expenses that can be transferred to the payment of the compensatory bonus. I also recall that this House, with the help of opposition votes, approved an increase in the state budget deficit. And I also believe that the Minister will find a quick and effective way of administrative measures to pay money to all the disabled and small limited liability companies as soon as possible. I would like to thank you in advance for the support of the Senate bill if you decide to do so, which will help municipalities, regions, cities, and thus also local entrepreneurs. This money, which will remain in municipalities and cities, will help to stimulate regional policy and the economy and help all entrepreneurs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u71	Thank you. We will now continue by taking a vote under Section 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Since I have asked you several times to remain calm in the House and to transfer the debates outside the press 850 into the lobby, I will have you all checked out, I will ask you for a new registration, please sign up with your identification cards. I repeat that we will now vote on the proposal as amended by the Senate, i.e. that the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed in order to adopt the following resolution. And as soon as the number of applicants stabilizes, we're going to vote forty-eight. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 159/2020 Sb., on compensation bonus in relation to crisis measures related to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, according to House print 850/2, as approved by the Senate, according to House print 850/3.' I've started voting 48 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 48 of 186 present for 67, against 15. The motion was not accepted. We will now vote again under Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. However, the agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely 101, is needed to adopt this resolution. We're set to go. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 159/2020 Coll., on compensation bonus in relation to crisis measures related to the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, according to the House's Press 850/2.' We will decide in the 49th vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 49 from 186 Members present for 171, against no one. The motion was accepted. I state that we have adopted the bill. Thank you, Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, thank you, Senator, and I'm done with item 5. Outside the program, Mr. Chairman of the club KDU-ČSL Bartošek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u72	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Just for a little while. As I have already announced in the general debate, today we have voted, it has turned out somehow, we have fought an honest fight, one opinion has won. Nevertheless, I say for KDU-ČSL that we are on the side of mayors and regional budgets so that they are not being robbed of their money. You will be able to vote again on Friday because I tabled an amendment that addresses this. He deals with helping entrepreneurs, paying bonuses, but not taking money from cities and regions and choking the local economy. Friday will show if you have the budgets of your cities on your mind. If not, then each of you at home will answer and explain to the people that you voted to give less money to your cities and regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-27-ps2017-049-02-001-005.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. Before I begin point No. 6, I apologize to the Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Jan Hamáček until the end of the meeting day from 12 o'clock. So now I'm opening up a point.
