ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill on compensation bonus in connection with crisis measures related to the occurrence of CORS CoV-2 / House print 808/ - shortened negotiations I will also remind you that there is an agreement that we will not apply factual remarks under these points. However, I cannot, of course, prevent any Members from exercising this right. The proposal will be made by the Minister, Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, if President Stanjura does not want to exercise priority right at this point, but I think that is until the debate. So please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly state the draft law, which will allow the compensatory bonus to mitigate the effects of the current crisis related to coronavirus on self-employed persons. Unfortunately, the economic activity of many entrepreneurs has now been completely or partially dampened. The proposed measure is therefore aimed in particular at self-employed persons who do so as part of their core activity, meaning that it is their majority source of income, but is also aimed at a significant part of the persons carrying out that activity as a secondary. The compensation bonus will be granted in the amount of CZK 500 for each day within the period from 12 March to 30 April 2020 if the person meets the conditions for granting it on that day. So, overall, a self-employed person, an entrepreneur, could receive an amount of up to 25,000. The current form of the bill, as I will now actually talk about the terms and conditions, is already in the text, or I take into account the comprehensive amendment, which I supported yesterday and passed through the Committee on Budgets. It was prepared by the Ministry of Finance, submitted by President Vostrá and Mr Volný Member and recommended by the Committee on Budgets. I would like to stress that representatives of the Association of Trade and Tourism of the Czech Republic, the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders of the Czech Republic and the Chamber of Tax Advisors were also involved in preparing this proposal, this amendment, for which I thank you. In preparing this measure, we have set ourselves several objectives. First of all, we wanted this to be a rapid and administratively undemanding measure. So help should arrive to entrepreneurs in the order of days. A guarantee of this is the conferral of powers to pay compensation bonus to financial authorities which have an extensive network of territorial workplaces and are fully able to secure this agenda. At the same time, good tax practices will be used to manage the bonus. Thus, the compensation bonus will be granted on the basis of a simple declaration of honour. I will introduce him immediately if the Senate can pass, so that they can sign before the President signs the law, and before he is simply published in the Collection of Laws, so that they can make these honest statements. [[18.00 hours]] Therefore, the condition will be a declaration of honour, the request can be submitted electronically and in paper form at the mail office or in collection boxes, and I am prepared to support an amendment which will extend, beyond the current procedures of the tax system, the possibility of making this submission and by e-mail under certain conditions. Furthermore, we have tried to ensure that the conditions are set in such a way as to achieve as many as possible of those whose activities have been affected by the current events and, at the same time, that this measure is not the object of abuse and speculation on the part of those who have not been affected by today's events, i.e. to be fair at best. Therefore, the condition for granting a compensatory bonus is that the self-employment of the applicant was wholly or partly prevented by current events related to coronanavir. These conditions are set very freely in the proposal and the guide for entrepreneurs will also be a demonstrational list of typical situations, or there will be a demonstration of closing the establishment, preventing entry to the establishment, but of course there will be anyone who has been hit even secondaryly, that is, to whom no establishment has been closed, but in de facto through government resolutions we have prevented his de facto performance of the business - guides, taxi drivers and a number of professions that write to me. However, we aim not only at those who were directly restricted by the government's activities, as I said, but indirectly, i.e. the decline in interest in their services or failures in suppliers lost a significant source of income. The condition for entitlement to a compensatory bonus will be that the self-employed had to be active before 12 March 2020. Here we also remembered those who interrupted their trade e.g. because it was a seasonal self-employed person who carried out business only during the season, i.e. if they have interrupted it after 31. 8. Guides etc., various of these specific activities, so we also remember them. And we also remember those who succumbed to panic and interrupted their business after the emergency, who applied to the offices of work because I know from correspondence, which I have, that they massively renew their trades, and in the time they did not receive the support actively, they will be able to claim the 500 crowns a day. Who is not covered by the compensation bonus, so they are employees because we approved the Antivirus program as government, i.e. we will compensate very generously for employers' wages, which they spend on their employees, who are in quarantine, who are in the care of a family member. You know that we have approved the extension of this deadline here, and we have introduced a programme for self-employed people. That means it's not going to work for them, but it's going to hit a huge spectrum of people who have a CFI as a secondary activity. I would also like to say that this benefit will be counted against the benefits of state material emergency and state social support. At any given moment, the Financial Administration will not check anything, a declaration of honour, a signature, an account number will be completed. I have informed the forms here, and I am prepared to support the amendment that extends these forms of submission. Then the money goes away, only the Financial Administration will then communicate the lists to the Social Security Administration. I am thinking about what I have forgotten, but if I have, then, of course, I will answer in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. The Committee on Budgets, to which the Government's bill was ordered by decision of the President, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 808/2. I now ask that the rapporteur of the budget committee, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and justify any amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the motion for a resolution, as approved by this resolution at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets. "After the opening words of the Minister of Finance, the report and after the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes that the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic close its negotiations no later than 18.00 on 8 April 2020; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic that the Government's proposal for a Act on Compensation Bonus in relation to crisis measures related to the occurrence of SARS CoV-2 Coronavirus (Print 808) should give its consent as amended by the following comprehensive amendment and amendments approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Then the whole text of the comprehensive amendment follows. Colleagues, you have the resolution, so if you don't mind, I wouldn't read the whole text. If you are interested, I will, of course, recite it as we have it in the motion for a resolution. "V. The Budget Committee recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that it take the already mentioned comprehensive amendment on the basis of the discussion; VI. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adaptations.'; This is the resolution approved by the Committee on Budgets. And I would like to ask, Mr Vice-President, before the debate is opened, whether we would not have voted that the comprehensive amendment will be the basis for the discussion, because there is an agreement on the Committee on Budgets that amendments will be directed towards the text of the comprehensive amendment, which was unanimously adopted on the Committee on Budgets. I think that this must be voted on so that other colleagues also know what text they should be making amendments to, so I want to ask for a vote before the general debate is opened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. I'm the one who recorded the proposal. I will point out that we must also vote to open a general debate. I've called my colleagues to the O.R. right now because I believe there's not enough of us here to vote. As far as the proposal itself is concerned, so that the proposal contained in the 808/2 Chambers of Press is taken as the basis for further discussion, in order to formulate it in some way, it is, of course, possible to vote, but the Rules of Procedure do not know such a procedure, but we have already used it, the House is a sovereign, so if there is no objection, I think we can vote against it. I've already called once, will we believe there's over 66 of us here, and we're going to vote? [[The President is calling again by the gong of his colleagues from the foyer]] Checkout request, okay. Well, in that case, I'll ask you to re-enlist with your cards. And for those who are coming, I note that we will vote on two issues at the moment, first of all, that we will take a comprehensive amendment on the basis of further discussion, as contained in the resolution of the Committee on Budgets, which is House Press 808/2, and then we will vote on the very opening of the general debate. I'd like you to sign up with your cards so I can take the vote. Thank you. So I am opening the vote, first of all, on who agrees to have the 808/2 press taken on the basis of the hearing. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 11 74 Members and Members were registered, for 74, against no one. The proposal was therefore approved. And now we will vote on agreeing to have a general debate. I'm opening the vote. Who is in favour of having a general debate in accordance with the draft budget committee? Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 12, 76 Members and Members are registered, for 73, against no one. This proposal has been approved. [[18.10 hours]] So I am now opening a general debate and the first person to sign up with priority rights is President Stanjura, then President Pekarová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. I have already said at the previous meeting that we consider this point to be an absolutely crucial and priority of today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. That time is running really fast, so I just want to remind you that last Tuesday, the government unanimously approved the wrong proposal, based on information from the government press conference. Then the government reworked, virtually. The Treasury redesigned the proposal that I think was published sometime this weekend. It was supported yesterday by the Committee on Budgets. A moment ago, we decided to vote that this was the foundation. And I mean, when I was in the first sentence, I was critical that the proposal was much better. And I want to say, and I will be bringing our amendments to you in a moment, that, of course, we will try to convince you that our amendments are good, correct and that the proposal of the Ministry of Finance, which was then tabled by the President of the Committee on Budgets Vostra and Mr Volný, is improving. But even if they did not pass, I want to say clearly that we will support in the final vote the proposal that we have just taken as a basis. So first, criticism, because I think the proposal was wrong, the new proposal is much better. The amendments that I will make address a total of four areas. In two, it will be the other two, I would like to thank the Minister and the Ministry of Finance, who helped me with the precise legislative adjustment of these two points, and I will then announce it, and I have tabled these two amendments together with my colleague Mr Kubíček. The first proposal I make on behalf of our membership club is the proposal that the amount - compensation bonus, it is so terrible, I understand that it had to be invented somehow, I completely do not like it - but the amount that we want to help businessmen, virtually. correctly speaking to self-employed people, so that it is not 25,000, but 30,000. The amendment, thanks to the fact that it is the decisive period from 12 March to 30 April, is exactly 50 days, so 50 x 500 per day is 25 000, so the amendment is actually simple, when the amount of CZK 500 is replaced by CZK 600 in the text of the bill. 600 CZK x 50 days is 30,000. We think that's an adequate amount. We came up with this proposal about two weeks ago. I must actually say that the amount proposed by the government, virtually. The Ministry of Finance is significantly close to the fact that the difference is not dramatic. We can then according to what range of businessmen, virtually. self-employed workers will achieve what the budgetary implications are. In the maximum version, it could be about $3 billion. Some say that three billion is terrible money, but the government has announced it, and we have actually acknowledged that it is ready to release up to one trillion crowns in support of the economy, whether in the form of direct or indirect, to say exactly what it was, and in that, the three billion is an amount that is not significant. At the same time, businessmen, self-employed people, account for about 10 percent of our population. That means the amount isn't excessive. And we think that self-employed people really deserve that, because many of the decisions of the government that we supported and support have to be said, from one day to the next, their revenues have fallen to zero. Not by 10 percent or 20 percent, but just to zero. So this is the first proposal that is set out in Houses of Document 4794, which I will then sign up for in a detailed debate. The second proposal addresses actually the area, respectively. set, respectively. all those who could reach this amount of aid. According to the Czech Social Security Administration, at the end of last year in the Czech Republic there was a total - I will not read the units, only thousands - 1,031 000 of them, of them 598 000 in the main activity, which is about 600,000, and 433 000 with secondary activity. According to the Minister's statement, this proposal by the Ministry of Finance could help up to 700,000 CFIs. I'm based on the Minister's public statement. He won't take my word for it. It is clear that we are not able to accurately estimate. So at this point, according to this statistics, we are missing 330,000 CFIs, which could also, if the House considers it appropriate, and we recommend this assistance to achieve. For the 700,000 estimated, the costs are roughly 17.5 billion. The 331,000 would increase by about 8.3 billion. We have also calculated this to make it clear how much we are voting on. We have this proposal in two options. The first one's pretty simple. It really affects everyone. This means that in the case of Section 2, where it is listed who is the subject of the compensatory bonus, it would be simple paragraph 1: "The subject of the compensatory bonus is a self-employed person under the pension insurance law." And then the sections proposed by the Government and the Ministry of Finance remain, meaning that it is either a person who meets the definition under Section 1, or whose self-employment is interrupted from the date that occurred after 31 August 2019. We took that from the Ministry of Finance proposal. So, to put it simply, this amendment, which is in the system under number 4791, says: all the CFIs are entitled to this assistance if they fulfil all the conditions mentioned by the Minister in their introductory words. To that end, we have a second proposal that responds to those employees, because in the proposal of the Ministry of Finance of those who have secondary activities, the proposal says that disabled or old-age pensioners, persons entitled to parental allowance or cash assistance in maternity and students can apply for this assistance. [[The Minister of Finance responds from the rapporteur's desk.]] No, it's not according to the law. I'm just reading what's under the Pension Insurance Act, what's considered self-employment in a case. And for those employees, it's a determined amount to be part of the insurance, about 78,000 last year. So we're suggesting that this applies to all the employees who meet this decision-making amount in a secondary business and are therefore insured. - House document 4792, which is a slightly narrower option than the first proposal for everyone to reach that aid. Then there are two amendments, which I will repeat, that I would like to thank the Minister and the Ministry of Finance with the help of making the proposal legislatively sound, feasible and that financial authorities can also do so. The first proposal is called e-mailing. If I'm earning myself, I'm based on those numbers, 700 000 will be entitled, or up to a million, depending on how we decide, and when we've checked, about 180,000 of these people have a data box, we don't know how many electronic signatures they have, but it's going to be less in order, so we're assuming that the possibility of sending that request either with a data box or with a certified electronic signature will be about 200,000 of them. And the others, that means 500,000 to 800,000, they're going to fill in that application and they're essentially going to have three options: put the application in the envelope, write the address, go to the post office, stand up the queue and send it; or they're going to put the application in the records, they're going to come in front of the office, and they're going to put it in the box or the mail room, and they're going to put the envelope there; or - and that's the proposal that we're bringing here - they're going to scan it or they're going to take it with their signature, and they're going to send it to the e-mail address of the e-mail office of the financial office. I think it will depend on the particular self-employed person who makes use of these options. I think it's most comfortable to scan or photoshop and e-mail, which doesn't create queues either at the financial office or at the post office. - This amendment is in the system under number 4831. [[18.20 hours]] And the last amendment. Yesterday, we had a debate with the Minister on the Committee on Budgets on how to ensure that this contribution would not be subject to taxation. We have come to an agreement that, as far as this contribution is concerned, it is sufficiently treated in the proposal approved by the Committee on Budgets, in the comprehensive amendment, but I would like to remind you that at the last meeting we approved the Sick Bay for the Ministry of Justice, and this is not yet covered. There's no intention. I think that in that hectic time we actually left it behind when we wanted to approve quickly so that they could ask for the infirmary, from today's data I know that it has already done more than 40,000 of them, the infirmary. To increase legal certainty, to make sure that this will not be part of taxation when they file tax returns, the amendment, which is in the system under the number 4833, addresses this particular dose of the sick person, so that it is quite clear. This is also in line with the recommendation of the Chamber of Tax Advisors, and I would like to remind you that this is done in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. I introduced the last two proposals under 4831 and 4833 into the system and, as a colleague, I introduced Mr Roman Kubíček. On behalf of our club, I ask you to support all these amendments, because I think that 30,000 is better than 25,000, that they deserve all the support here, regardless of whether they are employed or receiving some type of pension, because I think that the impact can be on all the same, and they will be on everyone, whether on the first line or the secondary effects that the Minister has mentioned. At the same time, I would like to make an update that we will support a number of other amendments, whether the amendment which we have drafted together as five opposition parties, as amendments tabled by Mrs Kovářová, Mr Ferjenčík and others. I'm sorry I might have forgotten some of them, there was no intention. It will then be very clear in the vote, how it will actually turn out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u7	I also thank you, and now with Mrs Pekarová's priority right, Adamová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that small, medium-sized entrepreneurs and businessmen are the backbone of the Czech economy. As the body cannot be stable without the spine, so the Czech economy cannot exist and function without these people, active entrepreneurs. They are middle class representatives who often create irreplaceable values that others then consume. It creates services that it provides to everyone else, and they are people who rarely ask for anything from the state. And we now, at this point, when they're doing very hard, are obliged to give them a helping hand and try to save as many of them as possible. This health crisis situation is moving into an economic crisis, so of course none of us are happy and it is not easy for anybody, whether it is an employee of a large company, or it is the owner of a large company, whether it is an employee of the state, simply whoever, but especially the self-employed, small and medium-sized companies suffer the most by the situation, I dare say. And just as Antivirus helps, and thus the cursarbeit that is contained in it, large companies with employees, as it can help many of the smaller employers, as we help the infirm parents of children who have had to stay at home for long weeks, we do not know how long it will go on, so we must help these very people. And the help that comes from the government here in this proposal seems to us to be a fundamental way out, but we want to improve it even further. That is why we have also contacted the other opposition parties, we have put our heads together, and we have put a few hours of work into really coming up with such changes and improvements that will really help save more of the tradesmen that such a government-designed law would not have to apply to, or would simply be insufficient. Why we must save them, perhaps it is clear. Not only do we not only appreciate the big ones, but of course the smaller ones, and we certainly don't consider them to be TOP 09 FEEDS and small companies as parasites, but I think we all know that if we want to keep putting the economy on its feet after all this is over, we're going to need to keep them working. We don't want anybody to become business people who go to the employment office for benefits. Therefore, if we want to avoid this by common forces, we need to add more with the help of many of these proposals. We are - I am not going to list all the measures that you will find there in these proposals, but we have really tried to provide comprehensive assistance, which will focus especially on not reimbursement, of course, full damages, including compensation for loss of profit, so as we sometimes hear from some ministers that this should be the goal, so it really should not, but we are really looking at at at least the minimum hand that is easy to administer in terms of fixed costs, in our opinion, in order to help with the reimbursement of one of the largest fixed costs items, and these are rents. In the event that companies had to close their premises from one day to the next, if the CFI could also not operate from one day to the next, but therefore have these fixed costs, and they really do not all, but many do, so it is necessary to help them with this large expenditure in their budget. That is why we are proposing in our amendment, jointly tabled, that 100 percent of the rent should be covered throughout this situation by those who have therefore had to close, and those who have had to significantly limit and cannot now operate in full, at least 80 percent of the amount. This can really help them to stay in economic life, and this can help them to actually open up once they open up again, so that it is not so that they will remain closed forever. We also want the help to be wider so that, as has been said here, it is not 25,000, but 30,000. We want this assistance to continue after 30 April so that for every other day some amount, which is therefore set at CZK 500, will be provided. We also want to remember all those who work on agreements, and we are simply presenting a number of other improvements. I believe that if the government really means that we are all in the same boat now and we are pulling together, as it is now very often used and said, it will not look at who specifically prepared these proposals, that it is from the opposition side, but what their goal is, and that if we really want to achieve this goal, that is to keep as many of our companies in business as possible in life, whether small, medium, or therefore businessmen, raise your hand for it. I would therefore like to thank all the other parties and their economic experts for this cooperation, which has been introduced very quickly in a specific output, and I would like to ask you all from the coalition parties to really put aside whether we are coalitions, opposition, from which we are parties, and to support these proposals for the benefit of all those concerned. [[18.30 hours]] While Minister Havlíček is not here at the moment, I would like to remind you of one thing that is not directly related to this proposal, but also related to the state aid that is now coming in the form of loans that are under Covid I, Covid II. These programs left out a significant proportion of entrepreneurs, namely entrepreneurs from Prague. And we shouldn't leave the hundreds of thousands of people running a business and a business here, in the lurch, and turn their backs on them. And here was also the promise to the capital and its representatives that individual representatives have dealt with the minister in recent days, that another program will be launched until Easter, which will not miss these entrepreneurs and will include them. I want to appeal to the government to really move on with this and run the program as quickly as possible, because every day of uncertainty for these people means really deciding whether they should even continue to try to keep their business, or whether they should close it already. And we certainly don't want to distinguish between someone doing business in the capital and someone outside of it. The cost here is no lower, on the contrary. So I appeal to this also from the point of view of being elected Member of Prague and from the point of view that there is absolutely no distinction between entrepreneurs according to where they come from. And I am very sorry that there is actually a frequent correction of individual proposals on the way forward, as was the case with this proposal, which is still changing several times, and I firmly hope that we will finally achieve its improvement here in order to really help. Many times in recent days it has been said that speed is key, so whoever gives quickly twice gives. And we need to help all those who run their own shop, restaurant or pub or any other service. Help them, whether they are people who do whatever activities they do, such as guide activities and others who are unable to operate today even in a limited regime and are simply completely incomeless from one day to the next. I believe that the state budget will not only bear it, but that will be worth it in the future, because these people will soon be able to restart and work again, and, of course, they will also be able to contribute again to the system after some time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. We're in a debate. Mrs Věra Kovářová is registered, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to comment on the government bill relating to the compensatory bonus for STAN. We see this proposal as an important aid to our businessmen just at a time when our economy is almost deadened by the coronavirus crisis. We also see this proposal as a first aid to bridge the worst crisis weeks for businessmen and, at the same time, we see it as a help to all those businessmen who, from one day to the next, find themselves without customers, contracts, and hence without money. What's important, and I think that's what we all feel, we need businessmen. And we need to keep them out of the labour authorities, and we need to keep them in such a state of condition in times of crisis that they are willing and, above all, able to restore their business when the crisis passes. We therefore welcome the proposal put forward by the Ministry of Finance, and we also welcome the fact that a comprehensive amendment has been tabled, extending the number of those who will be able to apply for this compensation bonus for this support. Despite our support for this proposal, we have prepared, in addition to the proposals that we support from other opposition parties, amendments that I would like to make here. The first such proposal is the so-called slippery bonus. The draft law states that entitlement to such a bonus of CZK 500 per day can be claimed between 12 March and 30 April. We therefore propose a different option, for the following reason. The government says: we are aware that businessmen have a big problem, we need our businessmen and we want to help our businessmen. But the proposal says only until April 30th. I think it is important for tradesmen, and the Minister also stated in the defence of this proposal that, in the first stages of the emergency measure, a number of tradesmen panicked, in the words of the Minister, and went to the Labour Office to apply for support. We propose that we update that we want to support the traders in the coming weeks or months for the duration of the emergency measures, so that the traders can be sure that this aid will continue after this deadline. Many of these days decide whether to go to the employment office, whether to interrupt their business or not. And so let's give the tradesmen a signal that we want to keep them after this date, after 30 April. Let us signal them that if they last, the aid will continue in the next weeks for the duration of the emergency measures, i.e. for every other day for the duration of the emergency measures they will have 500 crowns per day. That's our first suggestion. The second proposal concerns those who really, out of fear of declaring emergency and emergency measures, went to the Labour Office and applied for support, interrupted trade, and by this amendment, we are returning them back to the system of this compensatory bonus. What this bill completely forgets, however, are those who have an employment relationship as a principal and have a business as a secondary activity. Therefore, I think that a number of those who have a low-time job and have higher earnings as a business, so they are completely falling out of this system, and we propose that they too, meaning that they have a job as a principal activity and as a self-employed person have a secondary activity, fit into this system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u11	Madam, I would like to remind you that we have reduced your time to five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u12	Sorry, I'm gonna turn myself in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. The next in line is Mr Ferjenčík. Mr. Roman Onderka will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Like the rest of the opposition clubs, esteemed colleagues, the pirát welcome the modification of the original government proposal approved yesterday by the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies by representatives of all parties on the proposal of President Vostrá and Mr Volný. This amendment substantially improved the original government law. What are the major good changes? In our opinion, the very controversial limit of the decline in turnover by 10 percent per quarter, which is no longer there, and the ministry is suffocating, the Minister of Finance said so yesterday on the microphone, I believe today it will confirm that it is enough to meet any of the conditions for a person to apply properly for the bonus. That means, for example, you just have to drop your turnover in March or April compared to the past or last month, simply so that you can honestly prove that you are really affected by the crisis. It doesn't matter if the reasons are the crisis measures of the government or the state of health abroad, but if you are affected by the crisis, then you are entitled to apply for this bonus. That's a big positive change, we're happy for it and thank you for it. What we see as a weakness is that the government has left behind a large group of people, which are now not supported by any of these government measures. It's about people working on a job agreement or a work agreement. For this reason, we have suggested that these people, in the event that they make contributions to the state from the work, that is, either they have an agreement of over 10,000, or an agreement of over 3,000 work, these people are easy to track, they can be documented, and above all, here they also pay insurance, so that these people also receive support. We are aware that their activities usually have a significantly smaller scope than that of the CFI and therefore we propose 15,000 crowns, respectively 300 crowns for every day of the emergency situation. So that is our amendment. We're presenting it in two versions. Once for this whole group, for the second time for a group of negotiators who work only on these agreements and do not work in employment, that is, they do not have a different type of employment. This is at the request of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Maláčová, who has just stated this as a reservation as to why our original proposal does not agree with this. So now, in my opinion, there is nothing to prevent social democracy from supporting this proposal. We are aware that even after the adoption of our amendment, there would still be a number of people who are failing the sieve. We believe that this needs to be addressed with extraordinary immediate assistance. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has already announced significant changes in this agenda. We hope that they will actually come into practice and that extraordinary immediate assistance will become available to the people who need it, to those who have worked to this day. One final point. I believe that Mr Onderka is reporting with an amendment which, unfortunately, leads to the fact that people who work on an agreement on work and at the same time do business as a secondary activity lose the bonus. I find it quite unfortunate, because in these people's business the business list is a significantly larger part of their income. Typically, they are mailmen who work at the IČO at the same time as delivery agents. Many of these people who had an employment agreement with the post have now been released, and now because of this proposal, which I suspect the Ministry of Finance has taken away and presented it with social democracy, they are in danger of losing this support. So I'd like to ask Mr. Onderka if he can justify this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u15	I thank you for your respect and time and the next in line in the general debate is Mr Roman Onderka and Mrs Šafránková will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm only going to allow myself a few words on a law that deals with coronavirus and which is related to a crisis measure. According to Article 9 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission has to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether it constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 8 sentences of the last Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, it is possible that an employee who pursues a gainful activity as a secondary activity and therefore, according to the definition of the subject matter of the draft law does not reach a compensatory bonus, he may choose to pursue that activity as a principal in a given calendar month, thereby fulfilling the subject of the compensatory bonus. It is therefore proposed that Section 2 of the draft law should be amended so that the person carrying out the activity, as a result of which the person is involved in sickness insurance as an employee, is not subject to a compensatory bonus, regardless of whether he is engaged in a gainful activity as principal or secondary. My colleague Ferjenčík through Mr President. I stand by this reasoning, and therefore, in the context of the amendment in detail, I will propose an amendment to Section 2 (2) of the Amendment. 1: The subject of the compensatory bonus shall be a self-employed person under the law governing pension insurance, in so far as it is not a person engaged in an activity resulting in sickness insurance as an employee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u17	Thank you, honourable Member. I'd just like to point out that we don't have an approved five minutes limit on performances. This means that if no one signs up for a word, we will continue the normal mode without limitation to the limit of performances. The next is Mrs Šafránková and Mr Martínek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly present to you the amendment for the SPD, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. We have originally drawn up three other amendments to this point at this meeting, which responded to the original form of the government proposal and wanted, among other things, to help disabled and old-age pensioners and to eliminate other discrimination against the proposal. We are pleased that the government has realized and worked them out. The main reason for submitting our proposal is to strengthen the address, effectiveness and fairness of this bonus in the direction of tradesmen whose business was most affected by the introduction of emergency emergency measures, or to those citizens who had to stop their business entirely as a result of these measures. At first glance, it is quite obvious that our fellow citizens are clearly most severely damaged by the situation that has occurred socially and economically, since they have not, and cannot, received any income whatsoever since the introduction of the measures, but, like everyone else, they must ensure the life needs of themselves and their families and pay all their other compulsory expenses, and the loss of income during the period when they were prevented from doing business will be essential and practically irreplaceable for them. These persons therefore deserve, if we have an elementary sense of logic and real solidarity, higher support from public budgets than those entrepreneurs who did not have to fully stop their gainful activities after 12 March 2020 and whose business income has therefore only partially decreased, they did not say anything but those whose incomes are still roughly the same after 12 March or even higher than before. For all these reasons, therefore, we propose that the amount of the compensation bonus for self-employed persons who had to fully discontinue their activities between 12 March and 30 April 2020 as a result of the crisis measures under Section 1 of this draft law should not be CZK 500, but CZK 800 for each calendar day of this bonus period. It is therefore a total of CZK 40,000 for 50 days compared to the government proposed by 25,000. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. Mr Kubíček is a Member of Parliament with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm going to appeal to the deal, and I'm going to propose a reduction of the time for a single speech for five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u21	In the general debate and in the detailed debate? [[Yes.]] Thank you. We'll wait a while. Of course I'm going to unsubscribe all of you. Log in with your registration cards. We will vote on a procedural proposal to shorten speaking time to five minutes in general and in a detailed debate. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Sorry, you're right. Ending the vote, we consider it confusing. We have to wait, I'll still gong. Yes, Prime Minister. Favorite law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u22	Only to allow other colleagues to come. I've seen such looks that require an explanation. We have agreed, within the framework of Gremia and all the members of the assembly, that the speaking time will be reduced, but the number of speakers will not be limited. We didn't formally vote for it. The Rules of Procedure allow us to do so during the debate. We will therefore shorten the speaking time on a proposal for five minutes in the general and detailed debate on this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. I'd like you to register who you're not registered yet because you're unsubscribed. We're still not a quorum. I see other Members coming, so hopefully I won't have to interrupt the meeting. There'll be plenty of us. Looks like we need six. Another one. Four more. We need more. Looks like we could. At this point, we can launch a procedural vote. On a proposal from Mr Kubíček, we will vote on a reduction in speaking time for five minutes in both general and detailed debate. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 14, 71 Members of Parliament signed in for 60, against 5, the proposal was adopted. Mr Tomáš Martínek will speak in the general debate, Mr Jan Skopeček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u24	Thank you. I would like to say that I am reading the accompanying resolution on this press, which reads: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to take steps, including the submission of a proposal from the Chamber of Deputies, to introduce a temporary non-conditioned income mechanism in the form of an increase and a change in the tax discount on the taxpayer for 2020 to tax bonus and to allow for early payment by 20 April 2020. I would like to justify this proposal. Coronavirus will mean existential problems for many citizens of the Czech Republic. An increase in the tax rebate on the taxpayer, the possibility of early payment already in April 2020 would mean the temporary introduction of an equivalent basic income that would help many people survive a difficult period in the current situation. The specific wording of the proposal could be as follows: The current tax discount on the taxpayer for 2020 amounts to CZK 24,840 per year, and despite inflation growth over the last ten years, it has not increased since 2008. We hereby propose to increase the tax discount on the taxpayer to CZK 33,000 per year. At the same time, for persons from 18 years of age who do not receive a pension or any other form of government pension, a form of discount would change to bonus for the 2020 crisis year. This would ensure that even people without income receive the funds. The State should subsequently allow early payment of the tax discount, respectively. tax bonus of CZK 33,000 in several monthly payments in the next month, where the maximum monthly payment would be CZK 11,000 and the last payment would be sent by the State at the latest in December of this year. Similarly, additional tax bonuses such as child tax bonuses could be paid. All citizens of the Czech Republic could submit an application for early payment to their financial office as well as electronically. The data box can be set free of charge at every Czech Point. Electronic submissions would help reduce the concentration of people in financial offices. Employees who have signed a declaration of income tax on dependants and have already applied part of the discount would have reduced the maximum paid part by the discounts already applied. The bonus tax discount will be billed as standard by submitting the tax return for 2020. There will also be a possible payment of the tax. The current amendment to My taxes also makes attractive use of electronic communication with the public administration. Newly created data boxes will not be required to use mandatory. And next year, on the basis of my amendment, the deadline for filing an electronic tax return will be extended by one month. The advantage of this solution is fair access to all citizens, at the same time, where resources reach the necessary almost immediately. Low administrative demands and the assumption that those who do not really need funds will not be asked because they will receive the funds at the latest when submitting a tax return makes this option easy to realize. We estimate the cost of increasing tax discounts and extending the range of beneficiaries to around 50 to 60 billion. CZK, up to 35 billion. they are likely to return to the budget through payment of compulsory insurance taxes and other charges. The actual cost for the State budget of the measure may be approximately 25 billion. Kč. A similar proposal was also presented by a respected professor of economics from Harvard University Greg Mankiw. I would therefore ask all of you to support this proposal, which can fairly, quickly ensure the means to survive this emergency critical situation and thus get these acute financial resources to the people who really need it, and at the same time be fair to all citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. Next in line is Mr Jan Skopeček, Mr Marian Jurečka will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor. I am glad that today we are discussing a proposal that will help small entrepreneurs and businessmen. I'm a little sorry that actually businessmen and small businessmen with support are waiting much later than we discussed support for another type of business. I believe that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in particular are essential to our country's economy. Someone was talking about the backbone of the Czech economy, I agree with that, although of course I do not diminish the importance of large companies, but for the company to work, it has a strong middle class, as well as a strong business, business society is needed. [[19.00 hours]] I'm glad that after the first shot from the Treasury Department, which really wasn't successful, we came to an option that is much more acceptable. Nevertheless, I would like to persuade my colleagues and the government to support the amendments tabled by the opposition. On the one hand, I would urge you to support the amendment that we have made within the opposition political parties, and I would like to thank all colleagues from the opposition parties from the Pirates through STAN, the People's Party and the TOP 09, that we have reached a reasonable compromise in my opinion, which, if it is adopted, is, in my opinion, a better option than that comprehensive amendment by Mrs Vostrá, because it will mean more compensation for our citizens. So I'd like to ask you to do that. And once again, entrepreneurs, self-employed, the smallest businessmen are the most threatened group that always bears any crisis the worst. I think it's clear to all of us that a whole bunch of big corporations, even if they're in trouble, have a better chance of surviving than small businessmen. Just as I called for this morning that, although we are going to approve various aids today, I find it absolutely essential that these entrepreneurs can do their job again, they can do business again and that restrictive measures should be removed. But this one-time aid is also necessary in my opinion. I just think that she should have come right away, that we didn't have to invent anything intricately, that, in the tens of thousands of crowns, the support would have come much earlier, and today we could have invented a program that would have set the parameters of the aid so that it would have to be fairer, but we should have divided it into two parts. For immediate assistance in the tens of thousands that would require no conditions, and then we could discuss how to set up the system to be fair here for hours. However, there are a number of amendments. I also think that 25 000 is less than 30,000, and I will ask you to support the amendments in this respect. So I am reporting and, in a detailed debate, I will sign up for two amendments. On the one hand, the joint opposition, for which I thank my colleagues once again, and on the other hand, my next amendment, which extends the support to the self-employed who do not have business as their main activity. The other parameters of this opposition proposal will certainly be presented by colleagues from opposition parties, because each opposition political party has put its own priority there, and I think we can all proudly sign up and sign up for the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u27	Thank you for keeping time. The next in line is Mr Marian Jurečka, Mrs Richterová will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u28	Thank you, Mr President. My colleagues, colleagues, I would like to start by thanking you here, first of all, for I think that really here with this material, the comprehensive amendment that has been prepared since last Friday, there has been a significant shift and expansion of support towards businessmen in the Czech Republic, including those disciplines that have been announced that they are problematic, such as artists and these professions and so on. But what I would like to say here is that I would very much ask the government to discuss and consider other measures, because I think that the situation at this point requires really massive and rapid support, which we should provide and which we could possibly revise in a few months, and that we should really continue with these measures, for example, through the forgiveness of payments of social and health insurance contributions, not just by delaying, even if there was forgiveness for businessmen within the social framework, within the minimum limit law. So I think that at this point really tradesmen, small, medium-sized companies up to large firms would welcome at least temporary remission of payments and social and health contributions. I'd do a lot of work for that. Then there's one very important thing. We're getting close to the term of payment of quartal VAT. Again, I would very much like the government to consider the proposal here, namely the delay in payment of this instalment for the first quarter of this year, for example, until 1 January next year, because leaving cash flow in companies that would not have to pay VAT at this time would really be a significant help. So we would actually be able to keep the money in the companies for three quarters of a year very quickly, effectively, without complicated administration in the context of different covidos and so on and so on and so on and take it in just three quarters of a year, or possibly evaluate the situation, and we could decide on some further deferment of payments. At the same time, I would also very much like the government to consider, if necessary, the regulation of the Public Procurement Act, so that, say, we allow contracting entities to even prefer domestic producers, define strategic fields, strategic sectors. And I would also very much like the government to define better protection for the European market, as well as support for strategic sectors, within the whole of the EU market. And now, because I've spent half my time, so on the specific proposals that I also propose, together with the representatives of some other parties. I want to say that I have put forward a proposal that concerns the support of the tradesmen, the self-employed, who are on a secondary activity. It is about 480 thousand people in the Republic who properly pay their contributions to this state, write to me their stories that they work part-time and the CFI is a significant addition to their income, income of their family, their household. It's also how my moms write me singles. I can prove them. When I even looked at the secretary's Facebook profile, there are several thousand comments. And even these people write there - the self-righteous ones - and say, "How will the state be able to help us?" These people ask. So I think the help-- I propose it at half the government's suggestion level-- I have it in two options-- either half of the 25,000 or half of the 30,000, so I think this would be very good to give it to these entrepreneurs. At the same time, I also propose that we be more flexible and allow those applications to be made instead of 60 days 90. At the same time, in order for the State to have to guarantee that within 14 days it will pay these funds. And for the sake of clarity, I also state that the State should not start this financial support if the tax entity has already filed a tax return and has a tax obligation because it is postponed at this point and that entity can pay it until the end of June. So it seems fair to me at least for that month, for a month and a half, to help these entrepreneurs here. At the same time, I also try to remember a group of entrepreneurs, which is not often mentioned here, but is also very much threatened, these are the smallest eseros, which are made up of one person, so that we can also include here the basically the same support with which we remember the CFI, so that we can remember these little eseros. And then there's an amendment that concerns legislative technical adaptations and so on. I will then sign up for this in that detailed debate. But I'd like to see what I'm saying here, even though I understand that, for some strategic political reasons, it might not be supported right now, so I'd like the government to consider it so that the support is massive. On behalf of KDU-ČSL, I can say that we will support these actions, we will support the expansion of more massive support for entrepreneurs, the stability of employment in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u29	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Mrs Richterová will speak in the general debate. Please note that according to the agreement on the Gremium, after we have reduced the speaking time to five minutes in the general debate and for five minutes in the detailed debate, each Member shall speak only once. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u30	Thank you for the floor. Dear representatives of the government... [[He's turning to Secretary Schiller.]] Yes, hello, Madam Secretary. I'm glad you're here because otherwise we couldn't act. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to explain a little why the pirát in those amendments that we are proposing so stress that it is important that no one falls to the bottom because of the coronavirus. Why do we consider this so important in the Czech Republic in 2020? There are long-term researches about the fact that almost a quarter of Czech households do not have savings, it does not have a reserve for a sudden expenditure of CZK 10,000. [[19.10 hours]] We have extensive recent research called "freedom divided" and this research describes the so-called endangered and suffering class. I am reminding you of this because they are people who often do not have a sufficient network of well-known, wide-ranging families, they do not have the social capital in addition to economic capital to help themselves. And there are hundreds of thousands of them among us. A lot of these people have been answering me in the last few days with a question: What can I do? And that question is usually preceded by an attempt to get some basic help for the children's food and to bridge the rent until the next month at the employment office. And the typical thing is that right on the phone at the Labor Office, they're gonna say, "No emergency, no immediate help, we're not gonna admit it anyway." And when people ask, they're rejected. I have these reports from a large group of single mothers, where there are over 9,000 women, and none said at the call that they would receive the dose acutely at the moment of need. Many reported rejections. And a lot of these women were making extra money making deals. A lot of people who worked for the Czech Post were working on a work agreement. Part-time teachers, teachers' assistants, all typically have work arrangements. Therefore, we consider it very important to provide compensation to a lesser extent, a contribution and an agreement. That's the key proposal that's here today. It is a proposal for about 150,000 people who have paid their insurance, who have paid their social security as well as other employees. So, yes, the Department of Labour is trying to secure the functional emergency dose, but so far it is not at all in practice. In practice, few can reach it. Likewise, these people who work on a deal often have small children and have no infirmary. The moment they're still singles or singles, they're in a completely impossible situation. There are closed schools and kindergartens, they have their children at home, they can't even look for a part-time job, let alone give children a babysitter to older parents who are a risk group. That is why I am trying to explain that rejecting the support of the people who work for the agreement and rejecting the infirmary to the negotiators, at least to those who have paid social security, and possibly tightening up the sickness insurance, really doesn't make sense. And one last thing. I do not understand what Mr Onderka's proposed amendment is. It is precisely because I devote myself to the person who needs all the income and is actually dependent on them, it is also a number of 170 thousand first-degree disabled pensioners who have an average of CZK 6.5,000 disability pension. Yes, I know they're there. But there is Mr Onderka's amendment that the person who has the earnings right now, for example, for an agreement or for another employment relationship, so if he is self-employed at the same time, he would not receive the bonus. Please explain, because I do not understand what this amendment should be good for. Once again I appeal, there are too many holes in the system, and people will fall to the bottom.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u31	Thank you for almost keeping time. Mrs Věra Kovářová, please take the floor if she is in the hall somewhere. It is. And I'll give her my word because I interrupted her at a time when it wasn't decided to shorten speaking time to five minutes. So please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u32	Yes, thank you for your word. So I would return to the first part of my contribution. I have spoken about the fact that there is a complete lack of one group in the law, respectively, in the overall aid provided to businessmen or entrepreneurs. The group is basically businessmen, but most of them are small eseróčka, family companies and so on. And these are those who do not touch the CFI's compensation bonus, but at the same time find themselves in a very difficult situation, they are without funds, they have to pay contributions for their employees, even though they then receive them, VAT payments and so on. You may have heard of a hair salon in Prague. And this is such a salon, it is an eseróčko, a family company existing already in the first Republic and currently has a circus of seven employees and the hairdresser cannot, or the owner of this salon will not de facto touch any of these aids. I think there are a number of such cases, and I would like to, and so we agreed with colleagues from opposition clubs, so that in some way these small companies, which do not fit into one of the frameworks of the support that they are, will be helped. And regardless of the fact that I'm pointing out that the secretary said that they could ask for loans, but they certainly don't want to do this, and they're afraid of the future. That is why my colleagues and I agreed that we would propose a resolution which, although not related to this press as such, could essentially address the issue of such smaller companies in some way. I would like to read the motion for this resolution, and it concerns the Antivirus programme: The Chamber of Deputies, through the Government of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, imposes the following amendment to the document Targeted Employment Support Programme Antivirus. Firstly, the change in the scheme is the change in the period of closure of the company, so that for the first 250 employees, including 100 per cent of the eligible costs and over 250 employees, the aid intensity was 80 per cent of the eligible expenditure. The criterion for the number of employees shall be assessed in the state as at 11 March 2020. The aid shall also be paid for the calendar month following the month in which the obstacle to work has fallen. Thus, the aid would be increased by a month when emergency measures will not take place. Secondly, the change of the scheme for indirectly concerned so that for the first 250 employees, including 80% of the eligible costs, and over 250 employees, the aid intensity was 60 per cent of the eligible expenditure. The criterion for the number of employees shall be assessed in the state as at 11 March 2020. The aid shall also be paid for the calendar month following the month in which the obstacle to work has fallen. Thirdly, applications for aid under the Employment Support Programme Antivirus submitted before the date on which their abovementioned amendments become effective shall be examined as amended by the Employment Support Programme Antivirus as amended. If the agreement was concluded before the date of entry into force of the amendments adopted, the Labour Office of the Czech Republic will submit a proposal to the applicant for the conclusion of an amendment, which will bring the amount of the aid to the level resulting from the amendments adopted. The aim of this resolution is to increase aid especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, because, in view of the situation of real wage compensation, it is necessary to pay in full and it is clear that such compensation is insufficient for such enterprises. I will sign up for this resolution in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. Since the period has been reduced to five minutes, the next in line is Mr Ferjenčík, he is rejoined for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to open one more topic that is very relevant to the support of groups at risk of the current crisis caused by coronavirus, and these are agency workers. That is why I have prepared an accompanying resolution on this press, where the Chamber of Deputies asks for two things: firstly, it draws the government's attention to the extremely difficult situation of a number of people employed through employment agencies; Secondly, calls on the Government to prepare measures to avert the imminent social and security implications of high unemployment for existing agency workers. I wanted to draw attention to the fact that one of the groups that is now completely falling through the safety net that we are trying to create through the laws that we adopt in response to the Coronavirus crisis is agency workers. Ironically, the way in which the government approved the cursarbeit - unfortunately, the House could not discuss this, so it unfortunately helped the worst employment agencies, which operate completely outside the framework of employment contracts and did not help any standard agency workers at all. I understand the whole institute is problematic. However, there is no reason not to address the situation of people who are now acutely affected by the economic crisis. And there are a few things that need to be dealt with. First, return policy. Typically, people who lose their jobs seek to return home, it is very difficult in today's circumstances. I think the government here should lend them a hand. It is also necessary to address the need to avoid losing accommodation and to address the security situation in the localities. Get them food and sanitary supplies, at least the basics. In fact, so that there is not a bad social and security situation in those locations with a large concentration of agency workers who may lose their jobs, so I took the liberty of bringing the government's attention to this problem through an accompanying resolution on this press. And one last comment about the brokers. I really appeal to social democracy not to at least exclude from this law a combination of an agreement on work activities and a secondary trade to the CFI. That seems really unfortunate to me, this group completely, completely cut out of the one-off bonus. And if social democracy already proposes it, at least support the Pirates' amendment, which will return the negotiators there at least without a combination with the employment contract. So, at least more to those who've been doing the decoys like everyone else, and now they've fallen through the sieve because they've just been unlucky. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u35	Thank you for keeping time. Next is Mr. Petr Třešňák and Mr. Miroslav Kalousek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u36	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to return briefly to the impact of the measures on a specific group of citizens of the Czech Republic, which represents tens of thousands of people, and to justify my proposal for an accompanying resolution, which I will later sign up for in a detailed debate. I will therefore speak mainly to the Minister of Finance, but I originally addressed this subject to the Minister of the Interior, who is not even present. The resolution concerns persons who regularly cross national borders for the purpose of earnings, i.e. so-called. Pendlers. These are still divided into several groups, and if I leave out the group B, direction Poland and Slovakia, and I concentrate on group A and C, I must note that this is a real absurdity, because while medical personnel, i.e. the group A, have an exception and can travel almost freely, although they represent a much more risky group in terms of transmission, the other Pendlers have so far designed a model of 21 days at work and 14 days quarantine. However, this was not feasible for most employers, for many reasons, both the accommodation and the subsequent 14-day delay. I am aware that today, I believe, there have been a few minor changes and shifts, but the tour model remains preserved, albeit shortened to 14 plus 14 days, so it doesn't actually solve many of these situations again. As a result, a really small fraction of Pendlers will eventually be involved in the tour model, and a significant part will end up at the offices of work and in the long term will burden the Czech social system as well. And the result will once again be devastating, especially for the two most economically affected border regions. That is why, as I mentioned to Minister Hamáček, I proposed a system to ensure the safe movement of people travelling for work, based on smart electronic solutions. I don't want to use the word "smart quarantine," because the definition of government is a little different. This measure will actually ensure the safety of citizens of the Czech Republic and, at the same time, prevent the economic collapse of families dependent on employment abroad. And it's not just about allowing the border to be crossed, it's about saving the work and the time of the security forces carrying out the checks themselves. For example, if a person at the border is shown by a code generated by mobile applications, it will be much easier for everyone than paper certificates, which cannot be verified in real time. The resolution is therefore, I will read it now, then I will only apply to it: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to take the necessary steps to implement a mechanism allowing for regular crossing of state borders and the safe movement of persons for profit without the need for time tours and quarantine based on smart electronic solutions and continuous testing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. Next in line is Mr Miroslav Kalousek, the last in writing entered into the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, when voting on the amendment tabled jointly by ODS Members, Pirates, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN, to ask you whether you are primarily interested in not starving the tradesmen who are limited in their activities by a government regulation or to preserve their activities for the future model of the Czech economy. I would like to point out here that not every self-employed person is a typical businessman with his establishment. Many of them offer their intellectual or manual skill on the market and their fixed costs are essentially minimal. Indeed, support for them, whether 25 or 30,000, can be significant. A businessman who has a large fixed cost in rents that often exceed 100,000 a month in large cities, so for him the 25 or 30,000 is a delay in the collapse of his business for a few days. And it's certainly not the help of a state to help preserve the business. Therefore, in the subsequent amendment, in addition to the compensatory bonus, which is essentially the same for all, there is also the construction of a significant item of fixed costs, i.e. the rents, let 80 % in the case of restrictions, 100 percent in the case of closing. The state ordered them, we ordered them: you can't make a penny from tomorrow. But they have to keep paying the fixed costs. And then, in my opinion, it is the duty of the rule of law, which means it fairly with its citizens, to at least significantly help with these fixed costs. We do not move at all in terms of damages or compensation for lost profits. Absolutely not. We are only talking about a significant part of fixed costs, which are of course significantly different, trade from trade and region to region. That's why we find it very fair to tie it to the rents. And thank you so much for considering that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u39	Well, thank you. I look around, I see no one logged in, I end the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in any final words. Madam Secretary is interested. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will not respond long, because yesterday we discussed six hours on the Committee on Budgets, of course not only on this subject. All I want to remind you is that the help, the 25-year-old from March 12th to April 30th, is not the only help. If a self-employed person cares for a child from 0 to 13 years of age, he is still entitled to an infirmary, which is 13,000. We've announced a six-month social and health holiday, which is five times, and we're going to forgive the minimum amount, which is 5 times 6 = 30,000. We launched interest-free loan support with a delay in maturity for a year from basically CZK 0 COVID-1, COVID-2. And if it comes to this today's time, we're going to discuss today's other important laws, moratorium, consumer credit, and another one of my colleagues' workshops and their managed resorts, such as a lease, etc., so I think that's how we're going to sum up, underlined at this point, if we keep an eye on the end of April, so I believe that's going to be very, very helpful. And I believe that then the measures will start to loosen up. If not, we would have to sit down at the negotiating table and, again, we might be dealing with support for a particular group, because maybe part of it will be open by now. I will support, and I have already said this in the introductory words, in addition to the comprehensive amendment that was approved yesterday or recommended by the Committee on Budgets, so I will support the two amendments tabled by the President of ODS Stanjury, who have been processed in cooperation with Mr Kubíček, and this is the simplified form of e-mailing for this particular situation, because we are really concerned about time. And I will also support, as has been rightly said, that it was no intention that we had found that the infirmary, which began to pay the trade authorities, would be subject to income tax, so I will support the amendment which exempts the tax on the income of the infirmary. And on the microphone, I want to say here that we don't need to free the bonus, because in § 4 para. (j) point (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 is replaced by the following: zj) The Income Tax Act is exempt because the bonus is a terminus technicus, which already knows the Income Tax Act, so we do not need a new legislative regulation. As I said before, we've been tracking speed, so I'm sure I'll welcome it tonight to be approved if we move quickly to the Senate, if they just somehow have self-employed security. There's been a number of job agreements here, work activities. Mr Onderka's amendment, as I see it, addresses a situation in which de facto a self-employed person, who also has an employment relationship, can choose which he considers to be the main activity, which he considers to be secondary. It's possible from the backups, but the backups don't work now. So it certainly builds that we really don't want to deal with those people who are employees because we have Antivirus and they reach this Antivirus. As for the brokers who are up to CZK 10,000, i.e. There is no levy and they would have a combination with the CFI, so this is clearly how we will answer the questions, I am already answering them because I say, I get hundreds and thousands of my colleagues - that's how they get them. If he's got a deal up to 10,000, then he's on the side, so he'll get it, we don't need it written explicitly in the law. The problem is that there are over 10,000 brokers or clean contractors, because there's no record of the up to 10,000 brokers who only have the deal. We really spent time on this, we consulted with MPSV, with the Czech Social Security Administration, there is no registration anywhere. The fact that the Financial Administration doesn't have it, that's for sure, the Financial Administration has a record of registered taxpayers, of registered tax entities, therefore it is completely impossible for the Financial Administration to manage it, but neither does the Czech Social Security Administration. So we're not throwing it at anybody, it's just not there. I was also discussing this with the Minister, if we weren't looking for a way to put it under some new Antivirus point, but here it is really very problematic for the contractors up to 10,000. And I say, let's not forget all the time that we wanted to help in the first place the most necessary and we started really tax things, the liberating package etc. Then we wanted to keep employment. And I'm glad that this week we published macroeconomic predictions and employment (?) We have so far increased to 3.3 %, which is a very good number, I am glad, or massive redundancies are not happening so far, and that is why, as a government, we have approved Antivirus as the first step. Now we quickly wanted to help the self-righteous, because it is also a vulnerable group. And now, of course, we're going to be dealing with other smaller groups. Dealers up to 10,000, I say, I don't really have a solution here. We talked about it with the secretary, and we agreed on it. But let's not forget that there's still a social support system that doesn't end up in this country, and they can still turn around and ask for benefits. As far as brokers over 10,000 are concerned, there are already certain contributions, where the Czech Social Security Administration has records. And the question is, we said today we'd talk about it. So far Antivirus is based on an employment relationship based on the employment contract, or under the Labour Code, because we are saving employment in this country through the Antivirus program, so we're going to talk about it, but at the moment I can't agree that these clean negotiators are under the 25th, because the Financial Administration, which is going to pay it off, just doesn't know anything about them, it just isn't possible at the moment. As for the little eseros, I think the lady mentioned that she has seven employees in the hair salon. If he has seven employees, he'll reach Antivirus. He's closed, people are home, he pays his wages, so he reaches Antivirus. It will. It will because they're at home, there's a closed establishment, I know what we discussed in the government. So the employees, I assume they're on a contract. If they're not on the employment contract - so I probably shouldn't say it now as Secretary of Finance, we know that it works quite often enough that they rent chairs and are actually on a business license, so they would, of course, be able to reach 25 logically. Now I'm saying it a little bit, like life brings. I'm not happy about it because it's a classic quarc system, but I just know it works that way. If they're employees, they have a closed establishment, it's Antivirus. He pays his wages, and we compensate by those types. There's usually about 80 percent compensation, something's 60, but if there's a quarantine, it pays 60 percent, but we compensate the entire 60 percent for the employer. And the conditions of the Antivirus program are so wide that they really reach it. If it's that little eseroga where there's only one person, then I can't sub-class under 25. Because 25 is a program for the self-employed. But we'll talk about it. Of course, if the agent pays his salary, the question is, would he get under Antivirus? We have the loans so far, COVID I and COVID II, and today I had a conversation with Minister Havlíček that we will think about it, it is also a topic for Minister Dostálová, or because they are mainly travel agencies, so she is also interested in doing a program for them. But you see, we really wanted to deal with the most massive groups, the most up-to-date, and now we're going to deal with the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u41	Thank you. The rapporteur is not interested in speaking, I am opening up a detailed debate at the moment. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Members have taken the floor in order - First Mrs Věra Kovářová, Mr Roman Onderka will be prepared. And I would remind you that the speaking time was reduced to five minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u42	Allow me to sign up for my amendments, I also put some forward with other colleagues from the opposition parties. I have justified these amendments in the general debate. The first one concerned the so-called rolling bonus and extended the deadline for granting the compensatory bonus after 30. 4. always up to the duration of the emergency measures. This amendment is brought under House document 4776. The second amendment, which I justified in the general debate, concerns those who have switched to the employment office and want to return it back to the compensation bonus system. And this proposal is under House document 4848. The third proposal relates to the fact that those who have an employment relationship as a principal activity, such as subsidiary activities, are entitled to a compensatory bonus, and these do not fall under this compensation bonus. We're putting them back in. This proposal is under House document 4777. Furthermore, in the general debate, I have also read a resolution that is essentially trying to include and encourage the government to redo the Antivirus programme and increase support for small and medium-sized enterprises so that they receive higher percentages, in the first part of 100 percent, in the second 80 percent. This resolution is under House document 4861. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u43	Thank you. Mr Roman Onderka will speak in a detailed debate. Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, my colleagues, I would like to sign up for an amendment which I have tabled in writing and is registered as House document 4827. To put it simply, apart from the fact that I justified it in the debate, this amendment is very short. Amendment of Article 2 (1) (b) 1: "The subject of a compensatory bonus shall be a self-employed person under the law governing pension insurance, in so far as it is not a person engaged in an activity which makes that person involved in sickness insurance as an employee." I would like to thank the Minister of Finance not only for understanding, but also the justification, when she clearly specified in her speech, is indeed so. I'm applying to her words saying that really for employees is the program of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs Antivirus, dubling I think is a technique that is not appropriate. We can talk about whether the Antivirus is sufficient in the parameter, that is, whether it should be more than 60 per cent of the payment per employee, as the discussion took place, or whether the parameter should be even higher. But it certainly shouldn't be a doubling from one program from the Ministry of Finance with another program from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura is registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor. As I have announced in the general debate, where I have also detailed reasons for the amendments, I would like to formally sign up to five amendments. First - exemption from tax for the infirmary for the CFI - House document number 4833. Then by e-mail - House document 4831. It is then an extension of the scope of the beneficiaries of this assistance to employees who have a secondary activity - House document number 4792. Then it is the extension of the range of recipients of this assistance to all self-employed persons without conditions, virtually. subject to compliance with conditions without distinction as to whether it is a major activity or a secondary activity. It's House Document No 4791. And the last, but not the last, is an increase in aid to 30,000, and it is a House document 4794. Thank you. And I will hand over the originals of the amendments to the rapporteur under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u47	Thank you. In a detailed debate, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will speak. Mrs Šafránková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am applying to the amendment under number 4765 - this is an amendment which grants a compensation bonus of CZK 15,000 to people who have worked on agreements to carry out work above CZK 10,000 or to agreements on work activities above CZK 3,000. The Minister is still talking only about the over 10,000, but, for example, the Czech Post bearers, who have now made a significant discharge because capacity has been reduced, are working on an agreement on work activities. And these people, unlike standard employees, have no notice. So it is not possible to address the situation of these people with the Antivirus - Mr Onderko through Mr President. It's not possible to deal with the negotiators through Antivirus, because they're not employees anymore because they've already been fired. That's why it's completely pointless to say that it can be dealt with with with antivirus, because these people are already out of income. And that's why we're suggesting they get at least CZK 15,000 compensation bonus. We designed it in two ways. That's the number 4765-- that applies to everyone. Then, following the reservations of Minister Maláčová, we proposed a compromise variant under number 4858, which I also apply to, and this is an option which does not allow the co-operation of agreements from which sickness insurance is paid or work agreements over 3,0000, which does not allow for the co-operation with employment, only the co-operation with a secondary activity on a trade licence. I think that if the ČSSD insists on its amendment, which excludes a compensatory bonus for people with standard jobs, they could at least support this compromise proposal, which gives the brokers 15,000. The antivirus won't work because they're already fired, so apparently no compensation can come. And they could give at least 15 grand to these brokers and allow these people not to be completely incomeless. The saddest thing to me is that people who didn't go down the path of being hired black, but instead they paid taxes and paid taxes like all the other employees, they get nothing. They didn't even get sickbay. And the last point - I also refer to the accompanying resolution on agency staff - is number 4859. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u49	Thank you. Next is Mrs Šafránková, Mr Tomáš Martínek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which I explained in detail in the general debate, is conducted in the system under House document 4716 and actually increases the compensation bonus by CZK 800 to the self-employed who had to completely interrupt their business and stop their establishments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Martínek. Mr. Vojtěch Munzar will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u52	I would just like to sign up for the accompanying resolution, which I justified in the general debate. It is a House document 4840. I will read only the resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to take the necessary steps, including the submission of a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies, to introduce a temporary non-conditioned income mechanism in the form of an increase and a change in the tax deduction to the taxpayer for 2020 for a tax bonus and to allow early payment by 20 April 2020.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u53	Thank you. Mr Vojtěch Munzar will speak in a detailed debate. Mr. Jan Skopeček will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I did not speak in the general debate, but in the context of a detailed debate, I would like to propose an accompanying resolution which is identical to the one adopted yesterday by the Economic Committee at its meeting. Let me read this motion for a resolution and explain it briefly at the same time. The motion for an accompanying resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to postpone, as one of the economic measures to assist economic operators at the time of the COVID-19 epidemic, VAT on unpaid invoices for taxpayers for the period March to June 2020, until the end of 2020.' I think it's very important. The whole debate today on this proposal, which we are discussing today, is that many businessmen, but not only the CFI, but also companies, have lost their income from one day to the next because of the necessary extraordinary measures taken by the government. But these extraordinary measures are not a classic risk to business and to these entrepreneurs, businessmen, but also to companies many costs and compulsory payments resulting from business remained, including compulsory payments to the State. An example is the obligation to pay VAT to the State on unpaid invoices. The current situation in the economy, we all know it, leads to slowing down payment systems, many entrepreneurs and businesses have rapidly decreased their incomes and the maturity of invoices has been delayed due to this. It is precisely the obligation of valid legislation that VAT payers have to pay VAT on unpaid invoices that is very negative for them today, because interest and penalties are associated with the failure to fulfil this obligation. In particular, smaller entities no longer have the resources to pay the tax itself and are in danger of becoming debtors to the State. Therefore, delaying the payment of VAT for the months of March to June would alleviate the pressure on already tense and shrinking corporate budgets, and I appeal to the Government and the Finance Minister to address this issue. I believe that the 25th, or if it passes, and I hope our amendment to 30,000, will not be the only and ending support. This is a necessary minimum step, but further steps are needed to ensure that entrepreneurs and businesses survive these days economically, so that after the crisis, they do not simply pay the debts and liabilities incurred, but that they can buy, employ and invest again in the development of their business. That's the only way the economy's gonna run again. And often it's more efficient for people, entrepreneurs, businesses to leave money and not to collect it. I therefore ask you to support this accompanying resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u55	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Jan Skopeček and ask the debating group at the rapporteur's table if we could keep it down. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u56	Thank you very much. I will sign up for the amendments that I have announced in the general debate. Firstly, it is an amendment that is in the system under number 4788. This is the joint opposition amendment, which extends the compensatory bonus to a larger group of businessmen, increases the amount of the bonus and also regulates the reimbursement of fixed costs for disabled self-employed persons. And then I also apply to Amendment 4834 and this is also an extension of the compensatory bonus, namely to those who have a business as a secondary activity and are not subject to a government exemption under Section 9 (2) of the Act. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (b) or (c) pension insurance. These CFIs were to be newly awarded CZK 300 for each calendar day of the bonus period and, as in the previous amendment, I propose to increase the bonus to CZK 600 per day for the CFI. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u57	Thank you. Mr Marian Jurečka is next in line and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u58	Thank you. I generally appreciate the fact that the Minister has also responded to some of our issues; it is not always customary for ministers to react in this way, at least in a summary of the debate. I must say that I would very much like the promises that have been made here, for example, in the next week, the government has somehow specified so that these entrepreneurs can see what they might expect from the state. I'm just going to allow myself to return to the communication that I mentioned here when I was looking at Facebook Madam Secretary, so maybe there's Mrs. Gabriela Dočekalová: Well, nice, so when I'm a beautician in a small village, I have a side business, and I'm a part-time saleswoman, that's 60 percent, for somebody who's turned 25,000, it's a huge help to me. - It says, like, this lady. And, for example, Kateřina Sušánková writes: Good evening, I am startled by one thing, and this is the removal of the support of the self-employed for secondary activities, who have a major job. These people must meet all the obligations imposed by the State on others, but are completely cut off from any support. They must meet the same requirements as the CFI for the main ratio, but the support of the state will be zero... etc. So really, and there's a lot of these specific stories of people from that practice, so please, nicely, now the secretary doesn't have the chance to listen to me, but I'd really like to just say one thing. I understand that it's named here, that it's twenty-five to the self-employed, but you have all the data you need to give them, if necessary, to those legal entities. So I take the argument that has been made here in relation to some information about DPP, DPČ, that it is more complicated, that it is still necessary to fine-tune some things in relation to MPSV, but here, for example, for those who have the CFI as a secondary activity, or for legal persons, small eseróček, which is one person for whom cursarbeit is practically no solution, so I think that this support can be implemented now if I support the amendments that I have already explained in the general debate. That is, in this section, I am now applying to these amendments, namely Amendment 4819, which concerns legislative technical adaptations, specifying some terminology that we use, for example, in other laws that we approved here 14 days ago. Then I apply to Amendment 4816, which is the support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a secondary activity of CZK 12,5 thousand plus those modifications to parameters that I have already mentioned here. Then I apply to Amendment 4818, which is the support of small eserócs. And then I apply to Amendment 4826, which is, alternatively, CZK 15,000 to the CFI, half of the proposal that has been tabled here and presented by colleagues from the ODS, under which we are also co-signed. These four amendments were also supported by colleagues from STAN, TOP, ODS and Pirates, so please consider their support. Thank you - not for yourself - but thank you for the self-employed and thank you for those involved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u59	Thank you. Mr Petr Třešňák will speak in a detailed debate, Mrs Richterová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u60	Have a good evening again. Let me apply to the motion for an accompanying resolution, which I explained in detail in the general debate, which concerns another group of residents of the Czech Republic, which is threatened by falling into debt traps, and as a result they can also burden the Czech social system, which makes them Pendlers. I will therefore repeat the resolution itself: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to take the necessary steps to implement a mechanism allowing regular crossing of borders and the safe movement of persons for the purpose of earnings, without the need for time tours and quarantines, based on smart electronic solutions and continuous testing. [[capable of:]] [[based]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u61	Thank you. Mrs Olga Richterová, Mr Marian Jurečka will be ready. He's downloading it, so Mrs. Richterová's the last one. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u62	Thank you for the floor. I have a motion for an accompanying resolution on this House press, which is quite simple and concerns the situation that I have mentioned, the situation of a number of single parents, a number of people who are without a nurse, because they have just worked on agreements or in other ways that have not been supported, and it concerns that long-term - and I mean that it is years and years - at the offices of work in the practice of a very skeleton, the quick dose of emergency emergency assistance works. And now it can be a way to deal with the really acute crises of tens of thousands of households. [[20.00 hours]] I am aware that the Labor Department is trying to address this, that it issued a briefing that a press release came out yesterday and so on. But in practice it will change very slowly. And since that practice is what these people are experiencing, and the practice until yesterday was that all benefits are rejected at least in a wide range of thousands of people where I asked, so because it doesn't work in that practice, I have a motion for an accompanying resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies, knowing that the benefit of emergency immediate assistance can also be used in the coming weeks to prevent loss of housing and immediate provision of basic living conditions for tens of thousands of inhabitants of this country, and while aware of the current good steps of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, calls on the Government to ensure, in practice, the speedy admission of extraordinary immediate assistance to those who, as a result of emergency measures, lose a significant proportion of income which cannot be replaced by other means, with a decisive income must be regarded as income in the current month and not as income in the last three months."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u63	Thank you. At this point, I am asking if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Madam, honourable Members, I would just like a small correction on what Mrs Richterová said. You can't say that since yesterday, there's been clear instructions from the MPSV to the labour authorities that it won't work in practice. The instructions are very clear, very technical, and it cannot be said that it will not work in practice. Thank you. The instructions clearly state that the labour authorities will ensure that they are not without food, drugs, or housing funds for people in need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u65	Thank you. I'm asking for order if anyone else in the detailed debate. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. Is there interest in final words? I don't see anyone. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. The second reading within this point has been completed. So we're done with second reading. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u66	Thank you for the floor. I have several suggestions, and I believe most of the House will support this. As you know, we have two chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic. [[The chairman is gonging.]] And if we want this week - and we have only two working days left - to discuss and approve some bills, the Senate needs at least one day to study, that is, some bills should leave tonight or tomorrow morning at the latest, so that fellow senators can sit down on Thursday and discuss draft laws. I was communicating with the President of the Senate. They're ready to meet on Thursday, and my proposals are heading this way. At this point, I suggest we cut point number one. 1 until the end of second reading points 5, 6 and 7. At the same time, I propose that the House decide by its vote that exceptional circumstances have occurred, and those exceptional circumstances are such that we want to allow colleagues in the Senate to discuss some of the bills this week. If that's what we're gonna do, I suggest we change the fixed agenda of our points. This means that point 1 should be followed by point 5, House printing 813, in a simplified way a moratorium on loans; then point 6, House press 798, on adjustments in the area of State aid benefits; then, paragraph 7, House Press 809, on certain adjustments in the field of employment - with the suggestion that we interrupt this point for each of these points after second reading. That means when we interrupt point number one. 7, after second reading we would return to point 1, do third reading point 1, then third reading point 5, then third reading point 6 and then third reading point 7. If we're gonna make it, we're gonna make it tonight before midnight. Thank you for supporting these proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-04-07-ps2017-044-01-001-001.u67	Thank you. I've already summoned colleagues from the lobby. We have a few votes to make. First of all, we would vote on the interruption of this point after the second reading, with the fact that we would continue on this point after the second reading of points 5, 6 and 7 has been discussed. So first, interrupt the point. Interruption of point 1. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote order number 15 registered 95, for 90, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the fact that there have been exceptional circumstances which warrant us to change the agenda during the meeting. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? In the vote order number 16, registered 95, for 90, against no one. This proposal was also adopted. We will therefore now vote on a change in the agenda for this meeting, with points 5, 6 and 7 being continued now. These points would always be interrupted after second reading and the third reading would only follow the third reading of point No. 1. The other points would then follow according to the approved show, which means the next point is point No. 2 - Czech National Bank. If this is understandable to everyone, as I explained, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of changing the agenda. Who's against it? In the vote order number 17 entered 99, for 98, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Point No One has been interrupted. So we have changed the agenda of the meeting and we will continue with the item
