ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-009-013.u1	13. The draft law amending Act No. 253/2008 Coll., on certain measures against the legalization of proceeds from crime and terrorist financing, as amended, and other related laws, laws related to the adoption of the Act on the Registration of Real Owners and Act No. 186/2016 Coll., on Gambling, as amended /German press 909/4/ - returned to the Senate It is the last of the bills that have been returned to the Senate. The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House Press 909/5. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Tomáš Golán among us. I will ask the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová to speak first for the plaintiff, for the Government of the Czech Republic, for the resolution of the Senate and for the amendments tabled. Before I give her my word, I will ask the House again for peace! There's a lot of noise here, and it's really not possible to make decisions in this environment. I therefore ask my colleagues to hold discussions, which do not concern the press of 909, in principle in the foyer. I'll wait a little longer... Please, Madam Vice Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-009-013.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly repeat the content of the bill amending Act No. 253/2008 Coll., on certain measures against the legalization of proceeds from crime and terrorist financing, as amended, and other related laws, laws related to the adoption of the Act on the Registration of Real Owners and Act No. 186/2016 Coll., on Gambling. I will then briefly comment on the Senate amendments with which this proposal has been returned to the Chamber of Deputies, as I consider it important to draw attention to the consequences that will arise if the Chamber of Deputies accepts these amendments. The aim of this bill is, in particular, to modernise and harmonise the legislation on combating money laundering and terrorist financing corresponding to international standards, to contribute to combating, in particular, economic crime and to preventing current terrorist threats. The proposed bill is primarily a proposal for transposition, and the European Commission is currently leading the infringement proceedings against the Czech Republic, the so-called infringement, in relation to the two transposition directives in the so-called AML area, i.e. the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. This is due in particular to non-compliance with the transposition period. In addition to the transposition of directives, the draft law also includes a transnational evaluation of the Committee of Experts on the Evaluation of Measures against Moneyval and Terrorist Moneyval, on the implementation of international standards in the fight against money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction in 2018. [[17,00 hours]] In the context of the transposition of the above directives and the evaluation of Moneyval, the draft law also addresses the requirements arising from the needs of practice, particularly in the area of combating money laundering and terrorist financing and gambling, where the most important changes to the legislation of the register of natural persons excluded from participation in gambling and gambling reporting are the most important changes. The bill is also a amendment law on the recently discussed bill on registering real owners, House print No. 886, approved by the Chamber of Deputies on 19 November 2020. The Act on Recording of Real Owners would be incomplete in the wording of the present Act. The Chamber of Deputies approved the bill on 1 October 2020, but the Senate returned it with amendments. Although the Ministry of Finance could agree with some of these proposals, there are also proposals with which they fundamentally disagree, because their adoption would entail undesirable effects, including the incorrect transposition of the AML Directive. Since these proposals cannot be separated from each other during the vote, I will be forced to apply a dissenting position to the Senate amendment as a whole. And now a few words on the Senate amendment. The first proposal, which I do not agree with, removes from the scope of the compulsory persons dealing in the works of art an intermediary of such business, which is directly contrary to the requirement of the AML Directive. The next amendment changes the substantive jurisdiction of the institutions discussing the offences of certain persons. In the end, it would cause the illogical involvement of more than one institution and associated problems in their mutual coordination. There would also be a reduction in the capacity to assess the case in all its context. In addition to these amendments, the Senate's return also contains legislative technical proposals that could be agreed with, but which will not be accepted will not cause major problems. It also contains a proposal to amend the large and small budgetary rules and the Public Procurement Act. This is a subject which has been added to the bill in the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of the Pirates' amendment and which the Senate has decided to correct. I have taken a neutral position on him both in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate. However, if I were to evaluate both versions, then I would support the version read in the Chamber of Deputies, because it will better lead to the actual owners' record being actually relevant to the actual owners' record, which is, moreover, the intention of that AML directive. For this reason, too, we ask you to approve the bill in its original version, that is to say, as it was passed to the Senate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-009-013.u3	I thank the Minister and I ask Senator Tomáš Golán to take the floor. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-009-013.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, I think that the Minister here has described in an exhaustive manner the amendments that came from the Senate here in the House. I would just like to say that I really agree that what we have done there on the record of the real owners is gros, the gros of the amendment. Of course, the technical and legislative amendments that change the terminology and concepts are also accepted by the Minister. But the Minister had a neutral position on all the amendments in our Senate, so now her approach, her opposition is quite a surprise to me. I therefore ask you to approve the law as it came from the Senate, i.e. as amended by the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-009-013.u5	Thank you, and I'm asking the rapporteur for the guarantee committee... Mr Volný would not like to comment. So I'm opening up a debate. The Member shall submit to the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-009-013.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that we have been able to improve the draft considerably here in the Chamber of Deputies, and I am also glad that the draft has been improved significantly in the Senate. As rapporteur for the related press 886, I would like to ask you to support this Senate proposal, because my colleague from the Senate, Pirate Senator Lukáš Wagenknechta, in cooperation with the State Reconstruction Act and other senators, has succeeded in pushing through important amendments that further improve the enforcement of the data by introducing a stopwatch for the grant and award of public contracts to firms that have records of irregularities in the register, or in the course of an infringement procedure in court, which I consider to be a great step forward. There was such a shortage. It also changes the parts that have changed my amendments so that the authorities that allocate subsidies can find out more information, better verify the actual owners of the companies to which they allocate subsidies. So, once again, I ask you to support the Senate proposal. Thank you for considering.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-009-013.u7	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. Interested in the final words? Mr. Senator is interested in the final word. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-009-013.u8	Thank you, Mr President. As my previous speaker mentioned here, these were Mrs Miroslava Němcová's amendments, mine and Mr Wagenknecht, and we agreed on this with the Minister. It is the most important part of the amendment, which says how we can verify the real owners. This means that it will not be enough to look into the register, but we have the possibility to verify the beneficial owner according to the actual statutory documents and, where appropriate, the person who grants the subsidy may ask the court to correct the register in order for the correction to be carried out in the register and do not need to grant the subsidy until then. This is a matter that is in line with the European directive. And I think if we don't do this, we're gonna be doing a novel again, and we're gonna have to transpose this directive again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-009-013.u9	Thank you, and with the final word, the Minister will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-009-013.u10	Well, I'm just being very brief. I'm still consistent in my opinions, that can be traced in the tapestry. I gave a neutral position both on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies on this part and on the floor of the Senate. Overall, I was negative because there were simply things that were contrary to the AML directive. So just to set things straight. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-01-ps2017-072-01-009-013.u11	Thank you. And before we proceed to the vote, I will comply with the withdrawal request. I checked you all out, please log in with your cards again. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. An absolute majority of all Members present will be needed to adopt the following resolution. The motion for a resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 253/2008 Coll., on certain measures against the legalization of proceeds from crime and terrorist financing, as amended, and other related laws, laws related to the adoption of the Act on the Registration of Real Owners and Act No. 186/2016 Coll., on Gambling, as amended, pursuant to House press 909/4, as approved by the Senate, according to House press 909/5.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 28, 177 Members registered, for 76, against 2. The motion was not accepted. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. [[17.10 hours]] Therefore, we will be voting again under Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. To adopt the following resolution, we need an absolute majority, namely the agreement of 101 Members. The number of votes required is set. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 253/2008 Coll., on certain measures against the legalization of proceeds from crime and terrorist financing, as amended, and other related laws, laws related to the adoption of the Act on the Registration of Real Owners and Act No. 186/2016 Coll., on Gambling, as amended, as amended, in which it was referred to the Senate, pursuant to House Press 909/4.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 29, 177 Members signed in for 153, versus 2. I state that we have adopted the bill. Thank you, Senator, thank you, Minister, I am done discussing this point. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] Now we're going to look at point number
