ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u1	1. Government information on the planned emergency announcement I ask that the Government's representative, Minister of Health Roman Prymula, take the floor. After the Minister of Health, Mr Farský will speak with priority, whom I will then ask to become rapporteur. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will follow up on the previous communication and I would specify what has been requested, which means what measures are being taken. When we talk about measures that go beyond emergency conditions, they concern schools. It has already been presented that the measures in schools depend on the current epidemiological situation, i.e. where the colour is orange or red on the traffic light, schools for 14 days, secondary schools, switch to a distance form of teaching. In other schools, physical training will be cancelled for this time, only walks will instead, and there will be no change of clothes that is at risk, and at the same time singing lessons will be cancelled in terms of their own singing, but theory can take place as it was. This means that for schools, the effects are not dramatic and do not require emergency conditions. Measures relating to emergency conditions, this is the basic principle of limiting assembly in the inner spaces to ten persons, in the outer spaces to twenty persons, there are a lot of exceptions that concern any commercial activities, which are, of course, excluded from this, it concerns absolutely essential leisure activities. With regard to the various exceptions to this rule, the trades here - which, of course, do not fall there - will not be affected in any way, as has been said here. As for activities in culture, they will be banned for this time - I say, we are still talking about 14 days - various big concerts, etc., on the other hand, theatres will be allowed to operate because we do not have here - you called for data - at the theatres any evidence that there would be spread. If there is a mode where drapes are used, this transmission should not really occur. Refreshment breaks will be canceled because there's already a risk. As far as this measure is concerned, the exception will apply to acts, ballet, etc., where there is no singing. The opera, the musicals, unfortunately, will be limited because there is quite compelling evidence that we actually have several infected files because of the fact that there is a relatively massive spread of the virus during singing. [[11.00 hours]] As far as sports are concerned, there is an agreement - and I note that all these measures have been consulted with the relevant ministers, respectively. representatives of those key activities - all professional and semi-professional competitions will take place in sport, as they are registered by individual associations, however it will be without spectators. The reasons for this are obvious. It was given here as an example that these measures are illogical, that athletes will actually have competitions and that viewers will not be able to go to them while they can go to the theatres. There's a big difference. The point is not to keep these measures in the stadiums, there I agree with it, but after the match there is an enormous clustering of people and, of course, the spread of the disease, so for this reason it is limited to those two months here as it is. I think making an exception because of whether 22 people play on a high five or 20 is not appropriate. It is without exception that we do not have to introduce any exceptions to specific sports, which would, of course, be very obscure, because there are lots of sports. We need to realize that there will be more people with these professional sports, so of course the security will be there, but it will be without the audience. As far as church ceremonies are concerned, they will be in a similar regime to the theatres. There was a question for the wedding. Weddings will be restricted. I didn't want to define the restriction in advance, because of course all of these measures are subject to some process where different experts are expressing themselves, and then it is approved, so I didn't think I would have said absolutely harshly a week ago what those measures would be. It would be unserious, and I think that the debate that has been going on about it is better than when we put out some measures and then the debate is then, and those measures should change. As for the weddings, so that I don't run away from it, there will be a limit of 30 people at the weddings, but we're putting a relatively long delay here, it's only going to happen from October 19th, so that people can prepare for it. That means, at least two weeks now, the original limit will apply, so the weddings will be as it was. So much for the totally elementary measures. Otherwise, it should not really interfere with any other activity. We will strongly recommend to seniors that they limit both contacts and possible purchases to a minimum within the 14 days if possible. The basic reason is that we really want to interrupt the intense transmission of the disease that is here in the Czech Republic during the 14th time. Regarding the explanation of why secondary schools and not primary schools, the data that are from the Czech Republic are probably such that we have a higher number of primary schools, about 2,200, in secondary schools only 2000, however, when we take it in proportion, how many secondary schools and how many primary schools there are, it is clearly in favour of secondary schools. And the second basic reason is that children are quite intensely infected at the primary stage, but they do not carry it as intensively to adults as at second grade and especially in secondary schools. Here, when we look at the possibility of spreading, from the age of ten up, the young individual is ruling out the same number of viral particles, the same volume as the adult, and it's actually spreading there. That's why these measures are like this. It's in literature in all other countries. This means that many countries under the age of ten, sometimes 12, do not use drapes in such a young generation precisely because the spread is limited here. So much for the measures to be taken. I would still say here, as has been announced here, that there is no pandemic or epidemic plan. I happened to sign the plan this morning at a meeting. It's a type of epidemic plan, but it's a type of respiratory epidemic plan, so that's where the covid goes. Following the original plan, which was on the flu, was not quite possible because it has absolutely fundamental differences. I don't think I'd stick around here any longer. If there are any questions, I'd be happy to answer them. These are the reasons why it is really necessary to declare an emergency for these measures. And just to conclude, I would like to say so much that the second basic reason we have is that we need to strengthen the staff, and in some hospitals, there are really blackouts. The fact that covid is here is obvious. It's not that important if you die of covid or covid, but the important thing is that you die. And that fact is absolutely indisputable, because the increases that are here, we all just see. It's normal for a person to die and be negative. This is for a number of different infectious diseases. The virus or bacteria will set up the process, and then in the event of death, it could be negative. And this concerns influenza and other diseases. Otherwise, the numbers. The fact that there are x cases of flu is obvious, but we don't discuss the cases of flu either. We're picking up about 200 deaths a year from the flu, and we're counting the other 1,800 on how many people die in this period and how many people die in other periods, outside the season. That means arguing that the flu is treated differently, it just isn't correct. I think I'd be done with that, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, too. I am initiating a general debate in which I have signed up with Mr Farský's priority right and Mr Kalousek's priority right and electronic applications. Please, Mr. Ambassador, and I beg you to be the rapporteur of this point. Thank you, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the fact that we are debating the introduction of an emergency at all today is a result of the fact that this state is managed through piárists and overall populism. Because look what happened. On August 17, Minister of Health Vojtěch announced that drapes would be introduced. A wave of resistance on social networks rose to announce on August 20 that the drapes would not be introduced. He didn't respond to experts, responded to social networks, responded to his piárists, who recommended that he add a few points in the next election. He may have scored a few points, but it filled the hospital with sick people, and it put us in a situation where we are in real danger of declaring another emergency. Apparently, Andrej Babiš is simply responsible for the emergency that's coming now, with his incompetent piercing populist decision. And what happened? The Minister of Health, who suggested wearing the drapes, ended up Mr Maďar, who was behind it, but the Prime Minister is still holding fast to his chair. Those who didn't make mistakes are done. The one who made the mistakes is still here. I hope that the government will learn a lesson from this, and will simply take into account how experts are doing it, how the knowledge of the data recommends which steps and will not give way to the peacock populism. I hope the government will learn a lesson from this, but I hope that citizens will also learn from it, because this is the style of work - we will throw away those who warned, those who responded correctly, and those who simply erred. I am afraid this is the direction of the Czech Republic, and I am afraid that is also the future of the ANO Members. You will be called those who have erred, and the winner will be only one - Andrej Babiš. As it has proved in the past, this story only confirms it. You may not want to realize this, you may not realize it, but obviously the citizens of the Czech Republic are already beginning to realize it, because the preferences of the ANO movement simply fall. Yes, they can already see that they have simply become an instrument to achieve the power and economic interests of the Prime Minister. [[11.10 hours]] I'd like to call on the government here to work with the data. And that with data not election surveys, but with data from experts, with data on how our health care is busy, how beds are occupied, how they are threatened by development, and how they decided. And the data to also provide citizens. Because they do not provide, they act as if they do not trust citizens, and it also causes various speculations, various assumptions, various distortions and promotes the spread of disinformation. It is simply necessary to provide data, because the government is supposed to trust its people and its citizens. He's not supposed to rule them in high school with decisions for them and that he's in charge of them, but he's supposed to decide to cooperate with them, to decide, to bear responsibility, but at the same time to explain every step that's going on. I firmly hope that this will change and that citizens will become partners with this government. I have a question. I have a question for the Minister of Health. If an emergency is so necessary and necessary, why not Monday? Why doesn't it happen now, why are we leaving the days there? So is it certain that it will start, or will it still be re-evaluated? For how long did the measures that have been made - limiting the number of people at weddings since mid-October and so on - for how long have they been planned? When will they be taken back? Or should we prepare for it as something that will be here for the next months and years? In what development, at what numbers will these measures be abolished and we will return to normal life again? This is very important to me, because so far we are hearing what will be introduced, but we are not yet hearing under what conditions it will be abolished again. I'd like to ask the Minister of Health for that. And I have one big favor to ask. If there's anything significant to blame, it's that way of communicating. We're considering cutting 10, 20, 30, maybe Monday, maybe Sunday, maybe next month, we're considering changing the opening times... Please discuss it, lean on the facts, lean on the data, and come with a clear message. The announcements that we're thinking about, what we might have been, just creating a completely confusing, unclear situation, no one really knows what works anymore, and the slow main information channel from which people learn about what the government is planning is the yellow triangles of my colleague Feri, for whom I thank him. Government, and especially Minister Prymula, I ask for answers to those questions. Why is it Monday, when there's such a crisis? For how long and in what situation, in what data, in what development will we return to normal? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the next priority right, Mr Kalousek, and prepare myself with the priority right, President Michálek, I will read the apology. Czech Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček begs to apologize for his absence today from 9am to 10pm for work reasons and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš today from 10.20pm to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My previous speaker, Mr Farský, said with absolute certainty that the decision that overturned the announced decision of the Minister of Health had been decided by the piárists. I can't be so sure. I don't think we're gonna know if they were piárists or whether she was an astrologer's toothbrush. But in any case, it was not a good decision, and the Prime Minister has full responsibility for it. I got out for another reason. I would just like to respond briefly to Minister Prymula, who said he didn't want to interfere with the economy here before the programme was approved. Well, it's definitely not gonna work out. I stress that I do not criticize these decisions, that I want to believe that they are correct and will really help reduce the reproductive number. However, the closing of restaurants at ten o'clock simply has its economic impact, especially in the economies of the premises. And the ban on musicals, operas, and I suppose also concerts of choir singing, just has its economic impact too. And here, especially for businessmen, self-employed people, in the given field. I am taking this opportunity to appeal again to the government to consider the activation of the third time period of the compensatory bonus, which it can activate for the period from 9 June to 31 August. After a very dead summer, when self-employed people were essentially income-free, this is another impact, another preventing the relevant self-employed in a live culture from getting to that income. These people are on the verge of serious existential problems. I am not saying that the compensation bonus is self-saving, but it would still be 25,000 very, very quickly paid out, and I think these are exactly the reasons for which the Chamber of Deputies approved an unprecedented huge deficit. And if anyone really deserves a quick help at this point, they're people with high competence, but they're so narrow-profile that if we can't get them out, they're basically incomeless. So I'm gonna have to appeal to the government one more time. When this was voted on in the Chamber of Deputies, it did not go by just three votes. It's just a recommendation anyway, because the government can only decide that by its regulation, so it's in the government's jurisdiction. And I'd like to ask the government to actually do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. The next priority right is President Michálek, to whom I hereby give the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u8	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber of Deputies' meeting on this crucial issue, to congratulate him on his appointment and to wish him well and to do a good job for the citizens of the Czech Republic. As far as interest is concerned, I'm sure we all have that in common, which means reducing the reproductive number and not shutting down the company. That's a thing we're promoting, too. After all, it's already 18. 9. We called on the Government to suspend the negotiations of this Chamber of Deputies to resolve the matter urgently. However, the way in which the government approached this is not entirely appropriate to the urgency of the matter. We're on our initiative of 18. 9. we received a response on 29 September 2020, in which the government tells us that our complaint was referred to the Ministry of Health for delivery. That means it took 11 days just to move those impulses to another office to handle them. [[11.20 hours]] I would like to respond to the Minister's speech by first appreciating that the Ministry of Health has developed a type of epidemic plan for respiratory diseases. I would like to remind you that it was this Chamber of Deputies that approved on 4 June, on the opposition proposal, that such a type of plan should be developed, and it is a document that is essentially intended to follow up on updating the plans to manage the pandemic. In Slovakia, similar material was updated during the holidays. I'm glad we did, too. Secondly, I would like to appreciate that the Minister uses the pandemic traffic light in his new measures and that, where it is reasonable, there is a link to the degrees of the pandemic traffic light. So far, I think it has not been used enough, which has often created chaos. Of course, it would be ideal for everyone to know from the outset what measures work at which stage and that the condition at the pandemic traffic light reflects our best conviction about the projection of future developments in the region so that the traffic light warns about the situation in the future and preventively takes measures to avoid deterioration of the situation. Now I would like to take a few questions about the Minister and take advantage of the opportunity that he is with us today in the Chamber of Deputies. First of all, I wanted to ask about our suggestions, which we sent 18. 9. if the government has prepared any measures, say positive motivation, to bring medical or other persons into the testing system or tracing system before it approaches emergency conditions, in order to strengthen and cope with future threats of exhaustion of the capacities of the relevant systems. I think that other instruments, such as financial motivation, should be exhausted before dealing with an emergency and work obligation. I don't want to criticize the decision to declare an emergency, because we're already 18. 9. They said that the government should adopt action measures and that if it is necessary from a legislative, legal point of view, it may also proceed to declare a crisis situation. The second question concerns the functioning of school clubs, how the government will deal with it, because it is still a matter of interest to parents, and in some cases the number of persons is higher than the limit set for ten people in the indoors. The third question concerns communication. I wanted to ask, Minister, if it was possible to set up communication so that the opposition could pass on its suggestions in an informal way as quickly as possible. The Prime Minister promised the opposition that he would have a deputy in the crisis crew. That didn't happen, they were just informally invited there, they weren't members of the crisis crew. What I'm saying here is that it's impossible to put all sides in one bag. Indeed, our representatives are no drapes deniers, as they are politically labeled, but we had an economic expert there, Professor Matějka, who, in my opinion, contributed to taking some appropriate economic measures. I think that communication in times of crisis, when it is necessary to respond in the order of days, really needs to accelerate, because it is not possible for incentives to deal with this emergency situation to be handled by sending an email in 11 days. Of course, we also pointed out it informally by phone, we also have a cell phone number. As far as further questions are concerned, universities, I think that in this respect, measures have been taken that significantly harm university students by basically shutting them down completely, and I think, as I was talking about it at the beginning, that we should follow the principle that we do not want to shut down society, we do not want to turn it off in the field of universities, and on the contrary we want to find ways to reduce epidemiological risk while maintaining the activities of universities, that is, to allow teaching in some smaller groups where there will be a significant reduction in the threat of spreading the disease among students, but only if we go ahead with the fact that the teaching will be distanced and the exceptions will only be set for exams and, where appropriate, practical teaching, so it is a major intervention in the standard functioning of universities, which can actually lead to the need to prolong the teaching of students, and, on the contrary, if they are still locked up at home and have to study everything from books, I am not sure that the situation will be good for their education. I think there's a better alternative to using smaller groups where the epidemiological risk isn't so big, and the company isn't going to be shut down. My fifth question concerns the weddings you were talking about, stating that the 30-person regime will be activated from 19 October, not until 19 October, which means that it is essentially over a period of 14 days. And it follows that the emergency situation that is needed to regulate this regime will take quite a long time. So what I wanted to ask you is how long the restrictions are going to take, how long will the emergency take to keep these measures. This is also related to the question raised here by the previous speaker of my colleague Farský, in the current forecast for the impact of epidemiological measures. I will follow up on that, because I would like to ask for the opposition and ask if you could provide us with the materials on which you are based with regard to any evidence of the epidemiological impact of the proposed measures. Of course, we don't want it to be rigorous, let's say, in PReview magazines and the like, which is possible only in some cases. However, we would like to know at least some indicative table in which the Ministry calculates the factors of epidemiological value versus economic impact so that it can decide which measures are cost-effective for the company. Another question concerns one of our other initiatives, namely logistical support to provide medical material for the Czech health system, social facilities in regions and the like. Because at the last activation of the emergency situation we got into a situation that we were essentially bound to purchase medical material from the People's Republic of China through large orders, so I wanted to ask if it was processed at the Ministry of the Interior or under the Central Crisis Staff system so that the Czech suppliers could participate in the public procurement system, so that there would simply be a system in which the Ministry would have long-term or some framework relations with Czech supply companies and could provide health material if the situation were to be significantly worse under the conditions of the emergency situation. The last question I would like to ask is whether, as part of the processing of the respiratory disease epidemic type plan, the most important causes of inactivity have also been analysed during this period, especially around the holidays, that is, what has already been said here in the Chamber of Deputies several times, why an epidemiology committee has not been convened and so on, so that we do not get back into the situation of, say, formal matters going on as important things as the work of the epidemiological commission or the Central Crisis Staff or the handling or processing of opposition initiatives. [[11.30 hours]] I think we have a great opportunity to learn. We actually came up with a plan for the future now in April of this year, where we predicted the second wave that will come in autumn. That's when the Prime Minister left us for haunting. But it would be much more useful if he took a very active stance and prepared for the second wave. And I am glad that, in essence, even from your position as Minister of Health, that the question really was relevant and that it needs to be dealt with and dealt with on an action basis. What matters now is that we do not go from extreme to extreme in the long term, that on the one hand, the government will be inactive for a long time, especially as it was during the holidays, and then we will get back to an extreme state where we will ban all actions over ten people in the interior. This is, of course, the second extreme, which unfortunately, and I agree with you now, may be needed because some things have been neglected and it has come to the point that we have as many new infections as we have. However, in the long run, I think this approach by so-called shock therapy should be replaced by proper planning so that there is a really greater system. So I would like to thank you for your factual approach, for coming here to the Chamber of Deputies, and ask if you could clarify some of the circles I was talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. In the general debate, Mr Marek will speak Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, Minister of Education, fellow Members, I would like to make a few comments on this point. So let me begin by thanking the Minister for coming to this House, and without any emotions, he described the situation and measures with which he was coming. For that I thank him and wish him well, as colleagues have said, all good, a lot of strength and energy to work, because I know it is not easy, it is not easy. However, let me first mention one thing that is not at all at the heart of the new Minister, and this concerns de facto the preparation of crisis legislation just this autumn, for which already in the spring many anticipated second wave of pandemic COVID-19. It was I who appealed to the government here in June and July and pointed out that these things could not be underestimated. Unfortunately, I have no choice but to say that my words have come up. In May, the government, through the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch, presented a special law that we were to prepare for just in the autumn, because it was a law limited in 2020, the so-called COVID 2020 in case of the second pandemic. And the law is still here today because the government abandoned the idea and had no will at all to discuss the law. The proposal wasn't perfect. There were, for example, a lack of safeguards on the part of Parliament, the Chamber of Deputies. But I had amendments prepared for that. They're stored in the system. And if the law had been discussed, as the government originally intended in May, the Minister today would have had options in his hand, which could possibly mean that there would be no need to declare an emergency in some matters. Unfortunately, that is not the case today. The draft amendment to the Constitutional Law on State Security has been mentioned here several times. Well, the situation is that with this thesis came the Minister of Interior Hamáček in response to this special law COVID 2020. Yes, of course, the constitutional law on state security must be amended precisely in the context of the fact that the challenges that come with covid are completely new. However, the timetable, as set out, is unfortunately no longer being followed today, because the Interior Minister Jan Hamáček announced at the beginning of September that by the end of September the Government would discuss the draft amendment to the Constitutional Law. It's September 30th today, and I don't know that that's what's gonna happen. And he said it here, I think Vice-President Okamura, that we are the proposal that lies now before the government's meeting, so we discussed it on our parliamentary committee - a permanent commission for the Constitution. That's right. However, and this needs to be stressed, it is not just about the general, because the proposal is largely general, nor can anything be expected from the draft constitutional law, or the amendment to the constitutional law. But here's the key to another thing. Here is the key follow-up amendment to the crisis law. That's basically the implementing regulation. And we haven't seen her. We haven't seen her. And also the idea - which is why I think the debate here today is useless. And I'm going to end up with this when it comes to this thing, because it's obviously not going to help solve the current situation right now. We're not going to change the constitution here in a state of legislative emergency. We're not going to change the constitution here in Section 90. It's just not possible. And that's why the debate in that sense is useless. Unfortunately, we missed that time to prepare crisis legislation for the second wave of pandemics in May, June and July. That's why there's nothing left to do but follow the path that the government is proposing. I'm certainly not here to deny the need to declare an emergency, because let's all really remember the decision of the court. There are certain measures that cannot be implemented under the regime only by the Health Minister's regulation. The whole government has to decide. It shall be supported, where appropriate, by the emergency situation itself. So this is what I think is okay. And I would just appeal very much, and I would like the Minister to comment on this, so that the government will actually remember, when declaring an emergency, that there is a need to justify or describe the boundaries to which the government intends to go in the specification of restrictions on human rights and freedoms, and for what purpose, what is the purpose of limiting those specific rights and freedoms of citizens of the Czech Republic. So much for, let's say, the crisis legislation. Then allow me to make a few comments, it was here, and please also have the Minister respond to this if necessary. The communication needs to be improved in a strong way. Words like this so far, maybe, either Wednesday or Friday, then it's Monday, and we don't know if it's really Monday, so please, it's not really for us Members, but for the public, for the citizens of the Czech Republic, for parents, for teachers, for paramedics, for those who may be planning weddings and the like, it needs to be specific. I am glad that this is improving, because the Minister here has made a few minutes ago clear, so it is starting to become clear about what measures the Ministry of Health will propose. But I would very much like to ask that the communication be really clear, timely and accurate, because that is the only way that we will be able to all together, regardless of whether it is the government or the opposition, to appeal to the public, so that these measures are indeed respected and respected. And at the last point, let me touch a little more closely on the area that I think is absolutely essential, and that is education and education. In the end, my application for a detailed debate will be directed towards this. I am convinced of this, and I have said this over the years, that we must do our utmost to maintain, as far as possible, a presentation form of teaching. Distance learning is always a substitute for presentation. It always has been, it always will be. And we have to do the best we can. [[11.40 hours]] I would very much ask both the Minister of Health and the Minister of Education to be able to set up the communication system of measures that appear in the field of education and which are not always completely synchronized, and I do not consider it happy - to be happy with the founders, with the school directors and school establishments as well as with the public, parents, pupils and students. In the motion for a resolution that we have prepared together with our colleague Martin Baxa and with the ODS and KDU-ČSL, we will propose an appeal or a call to the Government of the Czech Republic to improve communication and coordination of measures towards schools and educational facilities. Even from the experience of the last few weeks, we may have been convinced that the time has come for it to be established here - and I know that it may be challenged that we are setting up a commission or a working group or something like that again, but take it, schools, education, education, it really is not an area that should be a cinderella. I therefore believe, without the need for formalisation, that there should be a working group where the Minister of Health, the Minister of Education, where representatives of the professional public, i.e. the Czech Rectors' Conference, the Association of Primary School Directors, Grammar Schools, CZESHA etc., will of course be at a debate, and on the basis or on the ground of this working group, measures should be discussed which will somehow be directed towards schools, pupils and students, and only after this debate and after the political debate of the Minister of Education and the Minister of Health should be presented to the public. Not before, because unfortunately this is causing the chaos that we are witnessing in the last few days. I'm being approached by teachers, school directors, various types of schools asking questions about how it's going to be and why it's going to be that way and on what basis. And that's another thing that I think is very important, and I'm going to ask the Minister of Health to elaborate on what he said here, because the fact that, of course, the covid infection appears to a greater extent in secondary schools is true, but I'm asking if the students actually infected themselves in schools, or whether the COVID-19 infection comes from anywhere else, from the shopping centers, cinemas, leisure activities and the like. Because this is also very important and this should also play a role. I think it's possible to pull the data from the trace and submit it, put it at your disposal. If it actually turns out that the trusts are in those high schools and not somewhere outside of those leisure activities, then yes, then let's go down the road, if possible, of the local and, if possible, of the temporary closure of the secondary schools. [[clusters?]] Here I also welcome the use of traffic lights to limit teaching in secondary schools, which I think is okay, but it would be good for all those decisions, even those that are planned from Monday, to be actually supported by clear data. By the way, there are studies that I don't quite consider to be fake studies, and it would be good for the minister to comment on them, if it's really true that the number R, the reproductive number R, is actually going to be reduced at least in the case of the closure of secondary schools, that it doesn't have a fundamental effect on that. If that's the case, it's not the case. Let's really put the data and the information on the table, and then we need to make a decision. Only in this way do we believe that the communication towards the public will then be timely, clear, understandable, and, if possible, coordinated, as I said, between the two departments. I would also like to, and this is a call or an appeal to the Minister of Education. Given the situation as it is, and the effort, and I know that the Minister has repeatedly declared it, the attempt to keep the presentation teaching as long as possible, if and at what stage is the distribution of the FFP2 respirators in high school or primary schools, of course, in what amount also, because we have to realise that the number of teachers is not small and the same respirator is for one teacher per day. So these things need to be dealt with in some long-term context. In the end, even from the words of the Minister of Health, I am far from certain that in 14 days the situation will be different and it will be possible to abolish the conclusion of secondary schools. Then specifically, and this is precisely what should be an incentive for a working group, and I would appeal very much and ask the Minister for Education to comment on whether the question of practical teaching in vocational schools is being addressed. That's what I think is a huge problem, because that practical teaching just can't be conducted remotely, the lathe usually doesn't have a lathe in the kitchen, and I could go on and on like this. And it is necessary to diversify - fourth grade, senior year, preparation for a practical graduation exam. Those juniors were out of their minds for three months in the spring. They didn't get into those labs, they didn't get into the machine shop, and now they're getting ready for their graduation exam, and now we're shutting them down for 14 days. I fear that this will be considerably longer, and these things also need to be taken into account. Maybe more than the first years, because they've been in that school for a month, and somehow they've already adapted to that school. And in conclusion, I would like to consider one more thing. We do not only have kindergarten, primary, secondary and university schools, we also have interest in artistic education, and there are a number of problems there too, and it would be good for the Ministry of Health to remember the Ministry of Education in these measures with some methodological instructions, as well as those schools that belong to the area, say, interest, not just artistic education. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. In a detailed debate, I will then draw up the resolution that we propose with my colleague Martin Baxa, where the things that I have just mentioned are described in detail, not as the task or patronage of the Minister of Education or the Minister of Health, but as a call for the education situation to improve, to be sustainable and to be able to move beyond the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic and in the field of education. Let me also thank all teachers, directors, parents, because they do not have it easy in this situation, and unfortunately here it needs to be said, they will not have it easy even in the coming days, but I thank them for the way they work and deploy themselves for pupils and students of our schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. Next, Mr Martin Baxa will speak in a general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u12	Good before the afternoon, Mr Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Dear Colleagues, Dear Colleagues. Let me comment on the situation currently prevailing in the field of education in connection with the deliberate announcement of an emergency situation and also stop at two points that are linked to the area of culture. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that on the basis of what Minister Prymula has presented here, and what is currently happening, there is a need to give clear facts in the area of education, to put clear facts on the table, to speak openly and foresight about what will happen, because, whatever it is, the area of education, education is really everyone's concern, it is more than a million pupils who attend primary and secondary schools in the Czech Republic, they are university students, of course, they are parents, they are teachers, school directors, it is just an area that is absolutely essential at present, and information about what is going on should be quite clear. I do not want to go back to somewhere until August, to the debate on the introduction of elementary schools drapes, it has already been overcome in some way, but unfortunately I feel that even now the information is not quite clear, and if we say that it is our priority, which I firmly believe is that education should be maintained as long as possible in the presentation form as possible and that when the distance form is switched, it works well, so it must be taken completely concrete and clear measures on the basis of clear facts. [[11.50 hours]] At the moment, we have a proposal presented by Minister Prymula on the table, which is aimed at shutting down the presentation in secondary schools for two weeks. And I have two question marks or two comments in that context. The first is the justification for this step. On Saturday on Twitter, Minister Plaga reported that according to a study by the Centre for Modeling of Biological and Social Processes, there would be only a minimum reduction in the reproductive number at the conclusion of secondary schools, from 1.4 to 2.3 percent, so that the reproductive number would be reduced from 1.3 to 1,28, it is a quote from the Minister's tweet, and he thanked for the study in the sense that it is actually an argument that secondary schools should not close. On the other hand, it is now announced that Minister Prymula is talking about establishing the so-called. traffic light. But if, Minister, we take the traffic light seriously, so if we look at the valid text that I found yesterday on the Ministry of Health's website to verify it again, it simply says that the transitional distance learning takes place when the relevant region or district switches to red color while you want to decide that high schools will shut down in regions that already have orange colour. I'd be happy to have an explanation here in some way about the reproductive number and the use of the traffic light. But neither of these facts gives me any assurance that it is decided on the basis of absolutely specific, clear numbers and clear facts. We are clearly entitled to this in the field of education. So is it really true that it's already off in orange, or doesn't turn off when the traffic light says that distance learning is passed in red, and so does it really mean that the reproductive number is decreasing or doesn't decrease when it's used as a big argument for shutting down high schools? In addition, I would like to draw attention to one thing, namely that there is a need for information on what will specifically mean shutting down in this case, therefore, secondary schools, to be distributed to all types of schools and school facilities, because this discussion is often narrowed down to the schools themselves in public space, but it is not just about attending school as such, it is about ensuring practical teaching in some types of secondary schools, it has already been discussed here. The moment this information appeared or when it began to speculate, I began to receive questions concerning, for example, the operation of children's homes, where we do not yet know what the situation will be. And a very specific issue also concerns universities, where, if I have understood this correctly, we are not talking about any kind of area measure yet, but there have actually been several, say, regional interventions in the functioning of universities. This was expressed by the Rector of the University of West Bohemia, where according to the extraordinary measures of the Regional Hygiene Station, distance teaching at the University of West Bohemia was switched off in Pilsen, and these are measures that have a very serious impact on the activities of these educational institutions. In response to these often contradictory and unclear information on Friday 25 September, I addressed both Minister Plaga and Minister Prymula by letter and asked them to set up an inter-ministerial crisis team for education, in my view this is a necessary matter at the moment, and I proposed to both ministers that this team should be representatives of both ministries, that experts should be epidemiologists and that, above all, all kinds of schools and school facilities be representatives on this team - I deliberately use this terminology of the school law. This means that any restrictions in the field of education should be discussed with those who must put them to life, whether it concerns the schools themselves, but with the whole range of educational establishments that we have talked about, and who sometimes remain on the periphery. I would also like to hear from Minister Prymula, in particular, and from Minister Plaga, whether they are planning to set up such a team here, but also whether an epidemiological situation can be directed towards reducing teaching in primary schools. Because at the moment, if it is said that developments are not going well, that the numbers are growing, that there may be problems with the number of infected in hospitals and so on, there is an impression of a deteriorating situation, or maybe factual data is saying that the situation is getting worse, so any restriction in primary schools would mean an even more serious impact than that which concerns secondary schools, whether it is a second degree or even a first degree. Here, not only is this related to education, but there is also the question of how parents should cope with this. And here I think that in the course of days, if not today, there should be clear data on whether or not we are going to limit teaching in primary schools. If, ladies and gentlemen, we want the education and education sector to remain as long as possible in the most common regime as possible, I think that we certainly all have the right, and in particular citizens, parents, pupils, schools, to know how the situation will develop. By aside at this point, I leave what has already been said here that the late preparation of the government for these steps, the overcrowded regional sanitation stations, the inability to scare out all the infected just makes the situation worse. So much for my remarks on education, and now let me make two more comments on the field of culture. Unfortunately, Minister Zaorálek is not here, but I believe he hears and responds to this information. The first thing that concerns the field of culture is what Minister Prymula has just announced here, and what concerns the limitation of certain kinds of live production. On Monday I had the opportunity to attend the opening of a really prestigious festival with the international reputation of Janáček Brno, where after the great opening opera Destiny by Leoš Janáček, a favorable word was heard about whether the festival might be possible depending on the epidemiological measures. However, it seems, Minister, that your actions will lead to a dramatic impact on the field of music theatre, the area of concerts, the area of classical music, symphony choirs, and I think that this is a very unfavorable report at present. And it should, Minister Prymula, be heard whether we really perceive opera ensembles and choirs involved in singing for such a serious threat that we will fundamentally disrupt their activities. I consider this to be an issue that is a very hard intervention in this area, on which - it is not this time already from one day to the next - but in a very short time it will have a difficult impact. Now, I was talking about what should come at the moment, so this concerns the limitations of opera, musicals without the possibility to change this situation from Monday onwards, but I would like to comment more generally on the situation on the music scene. At present, people who are moving on the music scene - actually already in the spring - joined the initiative, the founding of the Czech Music Community and the Czech branch of the Music Managers Forum has been very active in triggering negotiations that should be directed towards Minister Zaorálek in order to compensate for the music scene in this case. When you spoke, Minister Prymula, about trying to defend interference between these measures and the economy, let us say, however, that this certainly does not apply in the case of a musical concert scene. The figures given by musicians sound like they employ or move in this business, with about 130,000 people economically active. It is by far not only those we see on those stages, but above all a huge number of people who are connected with ensuring the activities of concerts, music clubs, and that turnover is in many and many billions of crowns. Already in the spring this sector suffered enormous damage. Somehow they had the hope that things would improve in the summer, and now suddenly, with autumn, another disaster comes. In fact, the measures that you have been talking about here mean at the moment completely shutting down the activities of music clubs, completely shutting down concert activities. We're talking about 14 days, but frankly, I don't believe it's only going to apply for 14 days, and it's going to take a lot longer. [[I mean...]] Representatives of this industry complain that the COVID - Culture program is set up too bureaucratically, that it does not cover everything that should in any way help them, and after all it is also very... or a relatively low number of applications for the total amount of the 900 million that is in the COVID - Culture programme. The initiative of music clubs, but generally the initiative of actors who work in music, in live culture, in concert business, is currently appealing to the Ministry of Culture to compensate for their activities. I'm very appealing. I appeal very much because the question is whether the famous motto "what Čech, it is a musician" will still apply next year if there should be such a serious disability of this whole sphere. [[12.00 hours]] My appeal, therefore, is now heading to the absent Minister Zaorálek, but I will certainly also want this subject to be dealt with at the meeting of the Committee on Culture. The last meeting had to be canceled because of my preventive quarantine, but we will certainly return to it, because I think we also care that culture works not only for culture itself, but also for those who have been employed in it and who have been active in it for a long time. Thank you for your attention and I will be happy to see both Minister Prymula and Minister Plaga here respond to the questions raised by my colleague Mark Výborný. I just want to say that we have jointly prepared a motion for a resolution, which will be tabled in a detailed debate and which reflects what ODS and KDU-ČSL consider to be important for education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u13	Thank you, too. The Minister of Education Robert Plaga will perform with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to the things that have been going on here in the field of education, in the field of education. Clearly, and I firmly believe that we can all agree on this, not only on the priority of us in the Czech Republic, but on all reasonable European countries, it is to maintain as much presentation education as possible as dominant. We can agree on that, and all the steps are moving towards that. If Mr Michálek's criticism of the universities was heard here, there is a regime set up at the moment about distance education. It should be noted that distance education, if you look at Cambridge, Oxford etc., and de facto canceling that semester, so at universities as a type of school, if I have to choose between primary - first, second degree, secondary and high, so online education, distance education, is the easiest in college. I'm not saying it's optimal, but it has the slightest loss of education and performance. Of course they are allowed there, because it is an irreplaceable part, laboratory work, practical, so they are limited to 10-15-member groups, of course individual visits to libraries and study rooms are still contained there and will be included in the following 14 days. I understand that the intensive braking by the Ministry of Health is now necessary for 14 days, but we are aware, as the Czech Rectors' Conference points out, that there are the first years of higher education that basically pass from standard studies that they know at primary and secondary schools to specific higher education. This means that after 14 days at the latest, we have to work on the issue of the first years, which at least they need for the organizational things and actually the introduction to the study to get to the university. That means we have it in our sights, and after these 14 days, we're agreed to take that step. If I were to paraphrase it, the semester will be shortened, but the personal presence of the first-year students will try to get back as quickly as possible so that they can fully start studying at college, whatever the combination of presentation and distance form will be in the following period. As regards regional education in those other posts, we are clearly aware, and we had a debate about it yesterday with the Minister of Health, that even in the wake of that spring, because we all learned, as teachers moved forward, and all of us moved forward in those specific aspects, we discussed on the school committee in accordance with Section 16 para. 9, their specificity, in fact, it was in those relaxing scenarios, so it is logical that now to close these schools, because they are specific, there are few children, the problem is any distance teaching, so it is not limited. By the same logic, we are aware that further restrictions on practical teaching and practical training are counterproductive and not appropriate. This means, as far as possible, the Ministry of Education is behind this, and we are in agreement with the Ministry of Health that it is necessary to maintain practical instruction. It's called from high school, and most importantly, it's extremely important. If you imagine that some of the years had a fallout from the practical preparation already in the spring, then another blackout would, of course, lead to the degradation of the study itself. So, again, the thing we're dealing with is we're aware of it, and thank you for the heads-up, but we've all learned our lesson, and we've got it in our sights. As for the next steps after 14 days. In high school, it's not so much about the first years, because the type of study is the same if you're going from second grade to primary school, or you're going to eight-year high school, the type of study is the same. This means, if something is being treated, so senior year, senior year, senior year, which must get back in very short time after those 14 days, under any circumstances must get back to intensive preparation for the completion of his studies. Another thing in which I assume we are in agreement and consider it a priority in secondary education. Let me partially stop at the so many supported communications and, for example, yesterday's press conference that we had with the Minister of Health, who from my point of view was extremely important. Although it has been said that specific measures will be communicated to schools today, it is good to remember, because nowadays it does not work by getting from journalists, and you all know it, peace and quiet to discuss matters. Only during the morning when the journalists learned that there would be a meeting between me and the Minister of Health, at least nine staffs were looking for information about when there would be a meeting, what the outputs would be and what other things would be. Meanwhile, information began to run in the space towards schools, respectively. that we meet to close schools from tomorrow, i.e. from today, or from Thursday, that this will concern kindergarten and primary schools. Basically, why we got off and said why high school didn't come from Monday to calm the situation so there'd be a signal to those schools. The fact that we did not go into specific measures when they are to be introduced today, in fact, is now presented in the House's soil, so it is perfectly okay. That means yes, you're right, there must have been a lot of communication stops, but this one isn't one of them. As far as sending things to schools is concerned, we were successful in the spring period and we communicate as the Ministry of Education directly to the school data boxes with the fact that they receive manuals there. I'm pointing out both in the spring and now they've gotten them in the deadlines we've announced. I think the feedback is very good. And any adjustment to those things, like this emergency measure by the Ministry of Health or any other measure that will be announced at central level if there is an emergency situation, we will distribute it to the directors in data boxes so that they have the information specific. We are also trying to give an explanation, some methodical procedures, so that they can give very quickly to parents who are not waiting and asking straight, an adequate answer. But I can't, and there's no way to get that information to those directors any faster in advance before the press gets it there quite often. That means we're looking for the balance between making the information correct, being correct, being on time at the schools, maximum certified, which is a data box. And, of course, the fact that there are some conjectures in the media doesn't leave anything to be said - as at yesterday's press conference. So much for explaining the things that fell here. I am actually convinced that in the spring communication with the political parties worked very well for us. The laws I put in the House, the preliminaries, and the direct line to you as a representative, to the representatives of the parties and the movement, were good. Therefore, if the impulse and appeal have come here, I do not defend myself at all and I think that we are in agreement with the Minister of Health, we do not prevent the Ministry of Education from putting together a working group, or whatever we call it, it does not matter. This means simply that we are in intensive contact with the representatives of individual political parties on a platform, with the fact that I am prepared to discuss the measures in the following period with the participation of the Ministry of Health, you and invited colleagues from practice, so that we can actually say this in a relatively short time or in advance and consult it. What was extremely important in that spring period was that you too were taking suggestions from practice. That doesn't mean everything you come up with will be dealt with. But it certainly doesn't hurt to activate this body, because in the spring, I feel like this direct communication at the time of the crisis, at the time of the emergency, paid off very much. So I'm gonna pick up the glove and call it up, virtually. I shall address the presidents of the MPs to nominate their representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr Bartoň.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u16	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister of Education for mentioning schools and classes in accordance with § 16 para. 9, which are very critical and their closure would have a very large impact especially on the families of those pupils, who often did not know in the spring council after a few months. But again, Minister, if you could answer the question raised by my previous speakers here, and that is the validity of the methodological material you sent to the schools and which on the last page contains the link to the traffic light. Already two weeks ago, the Prime Minister here praised this material and how it is attached to the traffic light. When the measures come, they do not respect this methodical material. When I take this, it says how measures will be introduced in the orange state of the drapes, and before it could be done this way, so came the loom measures that introduced it everywhere and in other ways than what is written in the material. So if you can tell if this document is still valid, if we are to take it into consideration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Minister Prymula. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to quickly answer some of the questions that have fallen here because I must depart from the government meeting and the preparation of the materials that must be approved there. Basically, what I'd like to respond to here, it's a matter of timing these measures for how long they're supposed to pay. It has been repeatedly declared that this as if a strong package of measures should only apply for 14 days, then some measures will be released so that we can keep the number we want to get to, and I believe, as we have managed to respond now to that break from 1.59, that we have got to 1,24, that we will be able to get these measures really below one. As for the marker, which is essentially going to decide how we're going to move on, it's really a reproductive number, and we need to get under one. Why the measures aren't announced until Monday. So we want to announce them in one package so that we don't have them layered after a few days, and it's clear from the point of view of schools that it has to be Monday. So that's why it's synchronized to this day. As far as the positive motivations for the medics are concerned before we use the Emergency Institute and some kind of work emergency, so the medics are already very intensively involved in the system, they have a financial payment for it, they help with the call centers, they help in a number of different locations, they help in the sampling sites. And I have to say that the involvement of military medics, for example, was enormous, and unfortunately, it was signed that not all of them were able to pass the exam period afterwards. So we can't abuse them basically long-term in the system, and that's why the measure is here. This means positive motivation has been intensively exploited. To school clubs. We really want to limit all activities for this period of 14 days, but we want to limit all activities, with the fact that they will be teams. Of course, we do not want to limit them in any way, because it has consequences for others. As far as communication with the opposition is concerned, I am not at all opposed to meeting once a week. I'm willing to set aside some time, and we can meet regularly. I welcome any suggestions that will be rational because what we're doing here, of course, can only be won with everyone's help, and if people don't respect the measures we're doing here, it's useless, because nothing can be ordered to work. It's based on people having to believe that, and I hope we all understand that if we can't stop it, we'll be harassed by other measures for quite a long time. And it's really better to go back to some regime that was here, let's say, between May and July, but to follow those elementary measures. I don't mean that we have to wear drapes everywhere, but respect social distance, etc. As far as universities are concerned, this is where it went down, and I'm not going to talk about it anymore. At the weddings the state is declared in connection with the need to respect the plans that are there. There is a really important public interest to have a rational strategy for the future, and as the emergency ends in a month, and I believe that it will not really be necessary to prolong it, because if we didn't bring it down in one month, it would definitely be a failure, and then of course it will go back to the way it is at the moment. As far as the basis for decision-making is concerned, it is not a problem to share this data. We've been communicating with our experts all weekend, who are at foreign universities, with experts here, so we can have really valid backgrounds. So there are about four models that are actually based on the data that are available, they are on domestic data and they see the effects, so how individual measures are able to modify this R. So I'm willing to provide such a table without any problems. As far as logistical support is concerned, I'll leave it to Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček. This type of epidemic plan basically responds to the specialized issues of respiratory diseases plus individual ropes to logistics, there is no analysis of inaction before the plan was created. About communication and so on. Here I was attacked here that I said it would either be Wednesday or Friday, but I said we'd announce it on Wednesday or Friday, not that it's going to be on Wednesday or Friday. Always those measures relating to schools or other activities will be announced for Monday. So maybe it was a misunderstand that I was actually suggesting. And the communication. It's complicated when you accurately express it and declare it one day, and the next day half of the nation starts saying it's wrong because of this and because of this. The precautions are out there, and then they need to be modified. I considered it to be a better discussion, which really goes into a whole series of ideas, and in some ways we corrected the original proposal so that it could come out in a form that would be accepted. On the other hand, I want to say that it is unrealistic to think that we are able to stop or vacate the epidemic and take no action. Everyone's calling for it's a good thing it's happening, but once it touches them specifically, they need exceptions. And that's really not the way to build it. We need to limit ourselves during these 14 days to measures where these exceptions will be as little as possible. To the working group. I do not object at all, we can agree with Minister Plaga in this way and with all those who have any inspiring suggestions there, so I certainly do not defend myself from those groups. As far as high school students are concerned, it is very difficult to find out exactly when and where the individual was infected. Even if we're going to talk about ourselves, now that there's more potential resources in the population, it's not exactly easy to figure out - I've been infected right there and there. By the time we know the resources, we're good. If there is community spread, then it is very hard to say where the particular person has been infected, but with those high school students we have fairly clear evidence that at the time of school attendance - but I note that this too, but this is a misleading factor, there were holidays, so it was different from the normal school year - so before school attendance started, there were about two percent of this age category positive, now we got to eight nine percent and we are going up sharply. So it's clear that the influence of contact is here. About the study. The study was here under domestic conditions. It is different from some foreign studies, but I spoke to those people who did the study during the weekend and basically the number that they published, which is really in a hundredths of a percent, about not taking into account any other factors there. That may have been a little misinterpreted by the mass media. If you take the whole package that is related to the closure of those schools, then the number is significantly larger, that is, the effect on the reproductive number is significantly larger, but if it is just this isolated impact on the school, then it really was published a number that is small. I've already spoken to the inter- resolution crisis team here. So that's about it from my side. And I'm sorry. Thank you. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Minister Plaga.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u20	Well, I'll take the liberty of reacting. I looked at the fact that I forgot to respond to one more comment about the respirators. And then I'd like to respond to that comment about the manual that went to school. Yes, you're right, the last-page manual contains a traffic light, and if this is where Mr Bartoň's speech should make it look like the manual maybe is out of date, then it's good to open it, see that there are instructions on what the school should do before the beginning of the school year, that there are good recommendations for setting remote education, which we have now, as promised by the methodology by the end of September, we have sent it to the schools. And there's this magical phrase that says if I find it now quickly, that the specific wording of the emergency measures by the Ministry of Health will be informed of the school's management through data boxes. [[Searches in mobile phone]] I assure you, we do. That means, if we're talking about changing conditions now, even across the board, we're going to send the information back to the data boxes. If - I don't think Mr Bartoň has been able to get through the whole manual, but he hasn't read it well. So the manual is useful, it's valid. And if the traffic lights are bothering you there at the end, I'm telling you that the important sentence is that the emergency measures that will be announced by the Ministry of Health will be taken into account, we'll communicate with the schools, so we do it, we act according to the manual. And the manual is still valid. If the traffic light doesn't work there at the moment, because the emergency measures of the Ministry of Health for the field of secondary education are coming in, this too is being treated in the manual with the sentence I just read. So it's on the edge of that one note. On the second note. Respirators. Yes, we have agreed with the Minister of Health that we will want to make of state material reserves, respectively. those supplies the government has were released by respirators for teachers - and not only for teachers, but also for non-teaching workers at our schools. We're talking about 250,000 people working in that system. And we're talking about everyone getting 10 respirators out of the state's material reserves. To note that it's not enough, it's for 10 days: I could quote here, I think, a study or something Mr. Mayor Hřib said that there are studies showing that respirators are recyclable if you put them in the microwave - and they're like scientific studies - if you put them in the microwave and somehow get rid of the load without destroying them. But that's not the point. The essence is this - and please, let's really remember this thing right now. The protective equipment and equipment of the schools are on the shoulders of the founders. If you look at the school bill to pay from the state budget, from the Ministry of Education, it's not that item. I am very glad that as a state we can help these schools, but the municipalities have a part of their budgetary determination of taxes dedicated to the number of pupils they serve in their schools. If we're talking in the monetary statement of 2019, it's 14.5 billion. CZK from the budget tax determination was divided on the basis of the fact that they have the headers, they have schoolchildren. These are the funds that were once a contribution to the operation of the Ministry of Finance, and these funds are intended to be directed to schools. So what we're talking about, the respirators, isn't that the state is supposed to provide schools that have their founders a community or a county, all funds for any time. Whoever has it - and I'm glad I noticed the articles that the community just bought for 50,000 shields and other things. It's great that they've done their duty by law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. Now a factual point - Mrs Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u22	Colleagues, colleagues, I think that in the case of teachers, teachers and other teaching staff, we are obliged to respond in particular to the fact that it is really objective data that these are the ones who are most at risk from the point of view of occupation and profession at this time, and that in this way the number of covid positive teachers is increasing. Of course, it affects health safety, the most precious thing we have, children. Therefore, I would like to ask that we find a consensus on this and ask the Minister of Education, by your means, Mr President, to state, as far as the statement is concerned, in the manual that teachers are no longer entitled to protective equipment, so that the Minister of Education will modify this in the sense that he is undoubtedly right, that it is the employer's question, but I think that this ministerial manual and, without a doubt, his will is consistent with what I have said here, and therefore let the employer evaluate the safeguards. And as for the current epidemiological situation, including the fact that teachers and teachers are the most affected by professions and occupations, we should respect that, whether or not each employer evaluates whether or not it is a protective device. The manual, if it hasn't been changed, I think it hasn't been changed, it really says it's no longer considered a protective device. So I beg the Minister, and I believe that we have a common goal in this part of the space to create, because, of course, not all directors are enlightened and needlessly someone can refer to this part of it, that it is not a protection device entitled from the point of view of the Labour Code. Thank you for my request.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. You can also ask the Minister directly. The Minister is not a Member who in the Rules of Procedure... you do not have to address him through me. A point of fact - Mr Baxa, then Mr Birke. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u24	Thank you for the floor. Minister, I can't not respond to that remark about what is and what is not the obligation of the founders. I just want to thank you first of all for choosing to support schools in the acquisition of computer technology. That's what I think is right, even if it doesn't concern high school. It was only about primary schools. And I've repeated it publicly several times. But let us not, Minister, debate what is and is not a legal obligation, in connection with the fact that, as usual, we interpret school law outside the emergency and outside the emergency measures that are currently being taken. It is clear that we, as founders, provide the operation of schools as we are given them. We pay heating, lighting, procurement, investment, everything, etc. But Minister, if at present the government, virtually. The Ministry of Health is declaring these forceful measures, so I just think that the state is obliged at the moment, and not only maybe in the sense of the law, but it is simply obliged to help those founders. Pilsen schools - we have 26 primary schools and almost 50 kindergartens. In the spring period, when Andrej Babiš claimed that protective equipment was, in the end, there were none, so, of course, we provided our schools with all the protective equipment. We provided them with disinfectant, drapes, everything that was needed at the time. We thought it was automatic and clear. But, Minister, don't say now that when the Ministry of Health announces major emergency measures, it is simply up to the founders to secure those protective equipment. Really, I don't agree with this interpretation. I agree that there may be a debate, that it will be done in half-and-half, or that it will be said, "We will help in something, something that the founders should help in," but do not put it in such a way that it is simply necessary for the respirators to be provided only by the founders. Notaben, we can certainly afford it as a city, but there are no doubt many others who will have economic problems with it. Well, I'm glad you're talking about releasing 2.5 million respirators from the state's material reserves, but don't add that it's an obligation of the founder, that it's really just your good will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. Now a factual point - Mr Birke. Then a factual remark - the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I might as well, Minister, I understand your challenge. To us as founders, I am also the founder, virtually. And the mayor and I have dozens of schools and kindergartens. I understand that it's automatic for a whole series of mayors, that if there's nothing, they'll remember them. It can't be that the principal of the school is coming - Mr. Mayor, give us the teachers' respirators, and the mayor will lock himself in front of them like an office. That's just not gonna happen. And I don't know people like that, I don't know mayors like that. And I hope they are not like that in the Czech Republic. All the mayors know what to do. And I think they definitely showed it in March when there was nothing anywhere. On the other hand, the truth is that I understand that the goodwill you're financing, you co-finance the material resources in that basic education, whether it's the laptops and things like that, so, of course, that's fantastic news. On the other hand, I say again, I think it's useless, you don't have to tell us to really challenge us that it's our duty. In my opinion, it's automatic for us, for every mayor in this country. Thank you. I don't mean that badly, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u28	Thank you. I wish it were that all mayors would be as conscious as you are. It's not like that, the hard numbers show it. But that's not the problem at all. I opposed it to being interpreted, which often happens that the state failed because schools do not have protective aids. At the same time, I do not say that the state will not do anything, because it is the role of the founders. So thank you for doing this during the summer season. At this point, the state will try to send 2.5 million respirators to help. All we have to say is that we're not in conflict, and we're just gonna do it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. I have no factual point at this time, so Mr Nacher has arrived. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I was originally going to submit an interview on this matter to the Minister of Health. Thanks to the fact that this point is open here, I'm going to use it, so I'm going to ask the questions now, in the meantime, the Minister has left thanks to all the technical rights and priority rights, so I'm going to end up having to do it again on the interpelations. However, let me make a few comments. I will devote the first part to a little bit to some colleagues from the opposition, and then I will turn to the Minister, perhaps through the Minister of Education, who is present here. It seems to me a little bit that in this thing that's new to everyone and is evolving dynamically, it doesn't make any of us happy, because it limits all of us, that some colleagues, I'm not saying that everyone, but some of us can't exceed their shadows. It's just that the moment some measure is announced on Monday, it was supposed to be Friday, when it's Friday, it's supposed to be Monday. When the measures are tightened, it is unnecessarily strict, when they become soft, so why didn't it stay strict and why we didn't take advantage of spring again. Once a drape does, once a drape doesn't. It seems to me that what I want to ask is completely gone, that's the long-term perspective. The long-term perspective, not what it is now, Monday, Friday, after these elections, after this weekend, etc. Those things, as I said, limit the lives of all of us in the Czech Republic and actually on the entire planet. I think in the short term, we're kind of putting up with it, somebody better, somebody worse. But what I'm interested in is where the light is at the end of the tunnel without the light being a speeding truck against us. And I miss that a little bit. I miss part of it that it doesn't actually sound from the opposition, but I miss it from the government, or the Minister of Health, the long-term perspective. So I'd like to ask you what the long-term objective of restrictive measures is when the virus is obviously here between us. I heard, yes, it's a reduction in the reproductive number, a flattening of the curve, we all know that. But if that curve flattens, what happens next? Will the measures be released? Then it's gonna have a sharp rise again, so it's gonna close again? I'm asking how long this is gonna take, where the end is. Is it next spring, next fall? I'm interested in the end in the long term. Plus, as I understand it, the experts are different in that no one knows today if the water supply means that when someone caught COVID-19, they can't catch him again, or they can catch him in three months, or six months, etc. So are we going to be immune to him, or are we going to be immune to him? Yes or no? The next question concerns whether what we are experiencing right now is actually a completely change in paradigm, a change in life, as we have known it so far, the different measures that are once tougher, once softer. But I don't see - and that's not even the fault of the Czech Republic, the government, and maybe it's worldwide - where the turning point is where the goal we want to achieve is. Is it looking for a vaccine? If found, will the vaccine be mandatory for everyone? I'm afraid of any such duty. If it isn't, according to various surveys, not all of them, of course, just as they won't be vaccinated against the flu today, they won't be vaccinated against the covid. So what will be the result? So there's gonna be a vaccine, but still half or two-thirds of it, no one knows that today, they're not gonna get vaccinated. It means that these measures will, in some form, continue. How are we going to control the virus in the future if it turns out that the vast majority of people are going through this without symptoms? I'm kind of wondering if we could get tested here in the O.R. right now, if anyone wasn't positive and it wasn't obvious, he wasn't coughing here, he didn't have a temperature or anything. The next question is when the time will come when we will view this COVID-19 as other respiratory diseases. I'd also like to know how many are really dead today for covid and how many are dead with covid. I think there's a big difference. All these questions point to the long-term, which means it's actually like answering people, if I can, Minister, where the end is, where the turning point is, when we say that we're gonna completely relax now, now it doesn't make sense, now we've got a lot of water, now we've already inoculated, now something, or it's gonna have these ripples, and we're actually never gonna go back to the life that we knew before the covide. That's what I think, and that's the kind of public reaction that these people are interested in in the long term, because the fact that you're going to be home for 14 days or a month with your kids, somehow it's going to make things more difficult for someone, someone less, somehow we're going to make it work. We're not going to go abroad, it's okay, on vacation, that's all there is to it, of course. Economically, it's worse, because, as has been said here, the reserves have been exhausted by many people. But I'm interested in the long-term horizon, which means where we can be expected - I'm interested in that from the experts, the doctors here - when we're actually going to do something, we're going to say that now the measures just don't make sense, or they're going to miss the effect, and we're going to go back to the way we know it and how it was before. I don't know if the Minister of Education will be able to answer. I will then send the questions to the Minister of Health Prymul in writing as well. I told him in advance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u31	Thank you, too. Mr Leo Luzar has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u32	Mr President, Mr Minister of Education, unfortunately I will speak to the empty ministerial bench, even if my questions are directed to the Minister of Health. In the morning, we were assured by the Prime Minister that he chose to listen to Parliament's tactics, then call the government and decide. In a way, he chose the right tactic, only he didn't last. He couldn't listen to most of the views, and he wasn't here before the morning part of the debate was completed. He's got a leg up on the law. The government itself decides to declare an emergency and does not need to ask Parliament. It is her legal initiative, which she will certainly implement. But I'm afraid she's not sure the consequences of her decision either. [[12.40 hours]] It is not easy to put the Czech Republic in an emergency, and certainly not without substantiated arguments. And I have listened to the Minister all morning, while he was still here, what arguments he will make to this House, so that we as Members take into account that the government is already determined to declare an emergency. I have heard the answer that medical facilities are being filled with capacity and that it can grow into a crisis. I wanted to ask the absent Minister of Health: you spoke, Minister, of thousands of beds with pulmonary ventilation, while 111 patients are on the lung to the current state. We're talking about nine times the excess of potential capacity. You said 173 patients were in the ICU, but the medical capacity is about 5,500. Those are the data I noted from your morning performance. I don't want to argue about individual numbers if there's a plus, a minus. I would like to hear from you what the capacity of Czech health care is and what the emergency number means when we have to take non-standard measures in the health sector. It's a thousand hospitalized with suspicion of covid, possibly. with covid-related complications? Is that two thousand, three thousand? What is the number that would require emergency hospital management and would require interference with the standard structure of health care provision in the Czech Republic? I haven't heard that figure from you. The resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 2015 imposed on the government the conditions for creating and maintaining infectious beds in the Czech Republic until 2020. I'm asking what capacity it is, and whether we are really ahead of the crisis, as many in the media warn, or as you have said here, that not yet, but still the numbers are warning. I think it's an alarming number when the capacity is really approaching the limit where we have to start taking crisis management within hospitals to satisfy the growth of patients. But that didn't come up. And I don't know a hospital yet that would have to do that in this regime in the second wave of covid. So I don't take this argument that you used to justify an emergency. Sorry about that. Another argument you used to justify an emergency is medical assistance. In an emergency, you can order citizens to work for the needs of the state. I understand that. We saw scenes in the first wave when the medics went to help where they needed to be. Thank them for that, I'm sure. Wouldn't it be worth calling them to volunteer? Colleges currently have distance lessons, or most of them approach this solution. Isn't it possible from the needs of the state to invite those medics to volunteer to help us in our health care? Did you do so, Minister of Health, and did you call on universities providing medical education to do so? Did the State offer these students any reward for progressing and operating in the health sector? And if you did, and here you told us, unfortunately, the response from these people that we expected to help us with isn't as big as we thought, and that's why we're going to have to order it, so I would say very well, it's an argument for an emergency. But I guess you didn't, if you didn't. nowhere is this data to be traced, and unfortunately I will not see this answer from you, Mr. absent Minister of Health. You were talking about limiting the assembly. That's a good argument. The state of emergency may, in turn, restrict the assembly of citizens. But we are already restricting citizens' opportunities to gather. We have broad measures and show up according to the latest numbers that we all have, that she has found her justification and that the number of positive cases is falling. It is really essential to declare an emergency when we have the downward curve, when the measures that the government has taken so far - and thank you for them, because it has helped. Is it necessary to declare an emergency? From this point of view, I ask: are you convinced that the eRouse will not work, that the tracing of hygiene will not work and will need to send an army to help? Then an emergency is needed. I understand that. But if the situation doesn't sound like that, and you didn't describe it that way in your opening words, then the other argument you used as a matter of urgency is odd. Unfortunately, I will not have answers to these questions. And I do not mean to criticize your activities, but rather to justify what the government wants - and I stress again, the government has that power and has already decided to do it and to declare an emergency - to answer citizens what is the fundamental argument for this announcement, because citizens will want to hear specific things about why this has happened. Another thing I would like to draw attention to, and unfortunately, the Minister is not here, but he should take it into account, is what it will do to prepare the budget of the Czech Republic. Parliament has shifted the preparation of the budget, but the emergency situation that we are declaring will completely change the parameters of the economy and will completely change the parameters of the revenue side of the budget. And what we're going to be discussing here, colleagues and colleagues, is really going to be fantasy numbers, estimates without some basic parameters, because no one is going to be able to say if that's really going to happen. I wouldn't want to be a creator. Here I will admire colleagues who will have to take up this task within the committee to create a budget that will at least give the appearance of reality in this current situation. That too is a matter of emergency, and I wonder how the government will deal with it. To announce something is fast, simple and effective, from the other side something then on the basis of which to produce it is a little bit more complicated. The last area I would like - the second-to-last area I would like to mention - is some issue of emergency that almost nobody here is thinking about. When a state announces an emergency, another regime will automatically start to pay for the sighting of penalties. And I ask, will we want to be supplied with newspaper articles, as a poor man who stole three rolls in a grocery store gets five years hard? Will we want to be supplied with such messages? There may be an answer: but courts may consider seriousness. But that, again, is a double approach to the law, because in the Emergency Act, it is clearly written that it is to be followed and how it is to be followed and judged, and we are moving the responsibility here to the judge. Not by law, but by their common sense. And even after the experience of the first wave and the first emergency state, we know that the punishments are very severe and severe. I wonder how the government wants to deal with this. And will he be methodically involved in the activities of the courts? And will he persuade the judge not to punish these crimes? Or, on the contrary, he says, "We're the ones who declared the emergency, you should've changed your mind." How many of these disabled people are gonna know that there's an emergency? How many of the different homeless people and others that our cities have will know that there's an emergency and that they can be affected like this? Does anyone think about it when they declare such a condition, Mr. absent Secretary of Health? I'd like to hear the answer, if that's what you're going to do to the government, so that these people aren't being punished for their ignorance, for their way of life, prison sentences. [[12.50 hours]] And the last thing I wanted to mention is information. When taking up your duties, you spoke about wanting to improve communication, information, and you want to report this information better than your predecessor. I wish you from the heart that you succeed, because I think this is the cornerstone of the injury to the current information time in which we live. But I want to point out that there's a huge amount of disinformation and fantasy ideas of different writers about what actually works, how it doesn't work, what happens and what doesn't happen. And I would like you to also focus on this area of activity, because what is currently happening in public space is a huge mess for fear. Many people have this fear right here from these misinformations and information that is incomplete, or possibly even support this disinformation and no one disproves it. If you look at the Ministry of Health's website, you will find information, but there are very few suggestions that would disprove disinformation and that would point citizens a little bit towards what the real view of the current situation is. These are the suggestions I wanted to give you personally here, and I wanted to hear the reaction, so you know, when you go to the government and you're already determined to ask the government to declare an emergency, to consider and take these things into account. Unfortunately, you're not here. The Government will decide, but you have to assume that it is the supreme right of Members of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to, if necessary, express their opposition to your actions and decide whether or not to continue the emergency situation and decide whether or not the Government has fulfilled its task under emergency conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. I have two factual points here - Mr Svoboda and Mr Běhounek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. No one can accuse me of defending the views of the Coalition Minister as an opposition MP. But after hearing my colleague Luzar, I'm forced to speak. My colleague, you've told us a whole bunch of total nonsense. As for the doctors, in order to be able to be used for specialized work in those hospitals, they must be listeners of the last four semesters. Before that, they have theoretical and preclinical disciplines. There is no distance teaching in these last semesters. It can't be taught remotely how to investigate a patient, how to look him in the eye, how to extract his body fluids. I can't. And the distance teaching you suggested is nonsense. The other thing is the question of the one that's most serious. What will happen to our medical facilities with their beds? When you talk about the numbers, you forget that those intense beds are normally occupied by patients who have a difficult course in normal diseases. And that the number of beds used it from at least two thirds for patients with severe illness. The moment you start saying we have a thousand beds, you're just wrong because we don't. And if we have them for those covid patients, we're gonna have to unplug some people from those beds. How are we gonna do that? Who's gonna put this on me to unplug someone and pin someone else on it? That's why this thing needs to be dealt with in advance and it can't be said that kind of medical nonsense. Everyone can heal, everyone can drive a car, and everyone is a great lover. But it's not exactly that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. A factual point - Mr Běhounek, then Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, my fellow Svoboda has outrun me and said some of the things that I wanted to say. You know, I've been listening to this since March 1st. There's thousands of numbers and thousands of opinions flying around here. I'm not gonna say which ones are bent, which ones aren't. But no one here is saying that there are beds and breathers and all these measures are completely useless unless we have staff to take care of them. So it won't really be the Medics. And the other thing. I have great experience from Břevnice, I have great experience from the Alzheimer's center in the Highlands. That was a social facility. We've written requests for volunteers to join the country. If you live in the belief that the nation is thrilled to go help us, then you are mistaken. We've always been helped by an army or a firefighter or someone we had leverage over in that emergency state. Volunteers were, but in the order of the troops. Please note that the numbers that fly here don't talk about those who are supposed to provide the care. And I strongly agree with my colleague Svoboda that we also have patients other than covids. Look at the 65+ data coming up!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. Mr Luzar's factual point, then the factual point - Mr Kobza.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I will respond through you to my two honored, honored, previous speakers. Dear colleagues, I don't think you were here at the beginning of this debate when the program was approved and when Professor Prymula, the new Minister of Health, had his performance. If you were here, he said those numbers exactly. He talked about the numbers, told us how many beds we had, said why he was considering declaring an emergency, talked about the doctors he wanted to use. He talked about it. And I was just asking him to clarify these numbers and to know the actual figures so that I could get a picture just like you. But unfortunately, I'm not going to get them, because the Minister is not here, and the government is probably already negotiating, in four minutes, about what will happen or won't be. And that's the basic problem. And I'm stressing that distance teaching. I understand you're the expert here in this. But I am turning - here is the only minister, the Minister of Education, who defends the government here. And college really doesn't work in the classic regime, they have a limited regime. I don't know how far the medics work. But it's a problem, and I just wanted the Minister of Health to respond to how he wants to use the medics, and why he wants to declare the emergency because of that, among other things, because of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u39	Thank you. A point of fact - Mr Kobza.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u40	Thank you, Mr President. I listen very carefully to the discussions that are going on here, and I cannot resist one question. Unfortunately, the Minister of Health is no longer here, he would certainly have answered me. I see a certain parallel to the Spanish flu epidemic a hundred years ago, which went in three waves. As far as coronavirus is concerned, now we have a second wave. So I'm wondering if, when considering how to deal with this Coronavirus wave, they're also thinking about how to prevent the third wave coming in. Because in the past century's experience, it seems very likely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u41	Thank you. That was all from factual remarks, and for three minutes Mr Klaus had arrived. Of course, we'll continue after lunch break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u42	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to introduce you to the position of the Tricolor on the imminent announcement of an emergency. First of all, when I go through this debate, I have a few words to give to the opposition. Here I am not surprised at those individuals who shout in July, let the government become more relaxed and why the government doesn't loosen up faster, and today they are screaming how the government didn't start putting in drapes again in time, and their statements are exactly the opposite than they were a month ago. You don't know whether to laugh or cry. On the other hand, the government's work is also to cry. And I think the government failed not in March and April, but in May, June and July. We were in a state where the resolution of the coronavirus pandemic was society's number one priority. You had tremendous public support, support from this House, support from the media, there were a number of volunteers and others. And what did you create? Pandemic traffic light, which is something on the level of about the first grade of primary school, my daughter, that she and the teacher would color it with a green color or yellow. [[13.00 hours]] And then there were arguments in the House, who invented a clever quarantine, whether the pirát or YES. And when it came, we see that there is no clever quarantine, that it was a total fake. Of course, it failed on human resources. But we have medics, volunteers, civil servants - yet the state is able to do a lot of things, collect tickets, drive a car that automatically reads your license plate, and so on. And when it comes to protecting lives, you didn't do anything. And I'm sorry, absent Prime Minister. You, for example, when you're selling a watery chicken, you can do it, and that's hard work - raising that chicken, all the veterinary stuff, advertising, marketing, selling, you get those people there, bookkeeping. So I don't understand why you run this state worse than the company. Now you come in with an emergency, and I don't believe you -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u43	Dear Member, I am so sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u44	I'll finish the sentence. That's my right. And I don't believe you know what you're doing, that you have clear data, and that you're seriously considering the impact on the economy, on people's work. And I'm sorry, I only see it as marketing, that it's before the election, and it looks good when the government is doing something, and it's even an emergency. Tricolors do not support your emergency measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u45	Thank you for doing the whole thing, the post. I would, of course, allow you to perform after recess. Since the Organizing Committee is meeting and it is already 1:00 p.m., I am interrupting the meeting. We'll continue with this point at 14.30. I'll ask all members of the Organizing Committee to report to room 106. We shall begin the committee's deliberations immediately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u46	Ladies and gentlemen - I have yet to see anyone from the members of the government, the government has been sitting since half past 2:00, so I hope someone will come. The President of the Chamber of Deputies suspended this item at 13:00. Before we continue the adjourned meeting, the Government's information on the planned declaration of emergency, so allow me to state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, from the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. The Minister of Health Roman Prymula, Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček and Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar apologizes as well. I will wait a little longer, because I would like us to comply with the directive of the Rules of Procedure, which means that we need at least one Prime Minister... Since I don't have a chairman of either of the government parties here, that means not a colleague of Faltýnek, nor a colleague of Chvojka, I ask the vice-president of the clubs if they have information which of the ministers has been released from the government's emergency hearing and will come to the Chamber of Deputies meeting because they know very well about this matter... [[Messenger. Valachová informs off the microphone that one of the ministers will be here in a moment.]] Yes, I'll hold... [[After a while:]] Well, I'll wait for the vice presidents to tell me... prosit, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u47	Mr President, on behalf of the Social Democratic Club, I would like to ask you for a 20-minute break at the meeting of the MP.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u48	Okay, so 14.55. [[Messenger. Twenty minutes, please.]] I'm declaring a break for the Social Democracy Club meeting until 14.55.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, the break for the meeting of the Social Democracy Club is over. If I have the right information, there are two ministers on their way to the Chamber of Deputies. This is the chairman of the club of the ANO movement. Please, Mr. Chairman, if you have any time when the ministers will arrive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u50	Thank you. Now a colleague from the Department of Transport informed me that the government had sent Minister Havlíček. He'll be here in five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u51	Okay, well, I'm declaring a break in 15 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. I understand that none of the ministers wanted to leave the government's meeting. Mr Vice Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček has already arrived, so we can continue our negotiations according to the Rules of Procedure. We're dealing with the government's information about the planned emergency announcement. According to the termination or interruption at 13:00 - the speech was made by Mr Václav Klaus, now we have Mr Vlastimil Válek's speech, who is duly signed up for the debate. Bohuslav Svoboda will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u54	Hello, Mr President. I've prepared my notes. I wouldn't have put it out of my mind like that after the break. Passive resistance is the best way to resist. Mr Nacher, through Mr President, asked about the turning point. And here, colleagues from the SPD, through Mr President, reminded of the Spanish flu. There are several breaking points. The first point of the break is that the virus simply weakens and disappears, as it was in the case of some viral epidemics. The second turning point is that the vaccine appears, and if the vaccine is applied to at least 70 percent of people and has at least 90 per cent effect, then of course it will be possible to eradiate by means of a general vaccination, as some diseases have managed. And then there's some third point of the break that, of course, can happen, but I don't know that there's an epidemic. I think all the experts are aware of that. If the Minister of Health were here, he'd probably confirm it. And that's what the facts are that we have to get ready for. Thus, the answer is that in the spring it will be difficult to do anything fundamentally different than in the autumn, because neither of those turning points will probably change in the spring, and therefore it is necessary, in my view, to follow the measures consistently to try to keep the low number of infected, thereby preventing what is repeatedly sounding here - the potential risk of health-care collapse. I would like to say that in the previous discussions there were various questions about the number of beds and different numbers. I think that if we remember last year, this time, when there were debates in the same House about some urgent income not being able to accept patients, that ambulances in Prague or Brno are carrying acute patients, because for them there are no acute beds in hospitals in Prague or in Brno. The situation with the number of patients hasn't changed, and the patients with the covid added to it. It doesn't matter how many there are, how many they need an emergency bed. It's just that the system in the Czech Republic is tense, and we've been talking about it for a long time. Hospitals do not have any extreme reserves, and therefore the situation needs to be dealt with in some way. We are preparing - and I will repeat what I have said several times - we are preparing for something that may not happen, but we are preparing for it so that it doesn't happen. If we are going to prevent a situation and try to take action so that it doesn't happen, I find it ridiculous and stupid that it doesn't happen on the basis of the measures taken, saying that we didn't have to take those measures because the situation didn't happen. We were taking them precisely to prevent them from happening, which is why we want to take action now. I would like to thank the Minister of Health for trying, even if colleagues from different parties pointed out that it might improve, but he finally began to try to explain why these steps should be carried out, why they should be implemented, what their aim is. And, yes, the plan should be, if possible, long-term, with a perspective for citizens to know what awaits them, what they can expect, and what the parameters will be, which will lead to different changes. In my opinion, a perfectly legitimate question and information that not only the Chamber of Deputies should have, but, above all, citizens, what parameters are the parameters that we want to achieve so that the situation so that everything starts to loosen up and gets back to normal. And they should have absolutely clear information about what the objective of achieving these measures is, whether to reduce the number of Rs, reduce the number of infected. Those goals shouldn't just be philosophical. Every one of us who does not just care about health care and anything that resembles science - and I think the Minister of Health knows this first - so we know that we first define the goals that we want to achieve in every scientific work, then we define the ways we want to achieve those goals, and then we define the parameters that we control if we are approaching those objectives. And here it is basically, I hope, at this stage, not by politics, but by a similar matter when we want to achieve a goal. This needs to be clearly defined, it is necessary to define clearly the path that will lead to this goal, and to defend why we think that the path - it is only a theory - is correct. And then the parameters that we're going to check on that path, whether we're approaching that target or not. I think that's also what calms the citizens. I don't like a lot of conspiracy theories here and the idea that the situation isn't serious, that the situation is funny, funny. I can accept that there is simply a group of people who look intelligent at first sight, and yet they are convinced of the flatness of the earth. That's just the way it is. But it bothers me when they speak with similar opinions in parliament because a citizen has no way of comparing what the facts are, what are conspiracy theories. That is why I would very much like and support - I think that, through the President, Mr Luzar said this - that we should really tackle the various misinterpretation information here, and the Ministry of Health should be very proactive in this. After discussing with most of you from different clubs, my colleague Langšádlová prepared a motion for a resolution, which I will then, if she does not come, allow myself to submit. I'd document it on one case. It's repeated here whether the patient died with a covid or a covid. In no other disease I have ever, never, never in 40 years of being a doctor, experienced a discussion whether he died of cancer or cancer, whether he died of a heart attack or a heart attack, whether he died of a stroke or a stroke, whether he died of pneumonia or pneumonia. I understand that when a terminal cancer patient takes a freeway car and kills himself on that freeway that he didn't die of cancer, that he died of cancer. But the debate that the patient admitted to the hospital with a positive finding on this virus died with this virus or this virus, don't be angry, but it seems to me... I don't really feel like it. That's completely absurd. I think that each of us who work in health care, whether we're radiologists or not, we see the findings of these patients and we see CT scans, how gradually those patients in severe condition worsen the finding on the lungs, how pneumonia appears, how it appears - the images are described in the literature. That's so irrelevant a discussion as to whether or not there was anything on the autopsy findings. It bothers me very much that it is not clear that the expression of professional companies. For me, the Czech Medical Society is sleeping - I can't formulate it any other way - and its Bureau, and I call on it to do so in some way. So we have the Pathologists' Society here, so please, if it's not really clear whether these patients are dying or dying of covid, I'd expect an opinion from this professional society, its Bureau. The Bureau represents professional companies and this should give a clear position, a clear position. And other things. I think it's time for the various appearances of experts, who have their personal opinion, who know what comes from, and it doesn't matter whether it's right or not, because it's difficult to judge, they should eliminate these opinions of professional companies that are relevant and which sufficiently represent the opinion of individual professional companies and the opinion of their chairmen. I would very much urge the Czech Medical Society to be proactive in this regard, so that the relevant professional societies become much more involved if we really want to conduct this process professionally and not stay on political discussion. [[15.10 hours]] What came out of the mouth of the Minister of Health struck me the most - and I didn't realize it, and I didn't realize it until after the speech - the fact that there is really a risk of delaying the planned performances again, probably threatens to reduce some sort of planned examinations. This means, probably - if you remember, we were debating here in the case of the payment decree, I was, in some way, corrected by my colleague Běhounek through Mr President, that this is not a payment decree. We were talking about how the money from health insurance companies would actually get into the system when the health services didn't actually perform enough performances because three months, or two months, or a certain period of time, they just had less performances. Eventually, we suggested a solution. The Minister of Health then suggested it, we accepted it, we discussed it. However, now the situation is likely to change according to what the Minister said, and we are not going to catch up on the number of performances we planned to catch up with by increasing deployment. Because we're going to have some kind of restriction, some kind of restriction, some kind of restructuring of those performances. So I think that the great task that the Ministry of Health should receive from the Chamber of Deputies is to consider whether the plan that was adopted at some point in June and which reflected the situation in the first three months is still up to date and whether it is not necessary to enter that decree again and in some way to adjust it so that it does not happen that some medical devices, groups of practitioners, private specialists and others will collapse economically. This I think would be very important. I firmly believe that, let's say, chaos will turn into some clear rules and order, some plan that we will discuss. And I would like to say clearly for myself, I would like to say clearly that I will do what I promised on the microphone here several times. If the Ministry of Health does that, I will support him anyway, because this is not really about politics, this is about the health of our fellow citizens. And in this case, I feel much more like a doctor than just a Member with forgiveness. Maybe it'll offend someone, maybe it'll piss someone off, but that's just how I have it, and there's nothing I can do about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u55	I thank Mr Vlastimil Válek. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, now duly signed in, will be prepared by Lukáš Černohorský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u56	Good afternoon. I mostly agree with my colleague Válek on everything, but now I have a slightly different opinion. What you're saying here is also a certain confusion of concepts. Pathological anatomy is a field that is defined, and there are four points in the autopsy protocol that must be completed. And the first point is called 'cause mortis', which means cause of death. And it's always filled in if it's dissected. So knowledge of whether the cause of death was disease A, or disease B, the pathologists, pathological anatomists, they always write, and then the other sections are complicated or conditional, and the definition is absolutely clear. So if we work with facts that normally work with pathological anatomy, we'll know in all patients with a probability of playing with certainty what they died of. Because this point must always be filled out in the autopsy protocol, without it, the protocol cannot exist. So it's a question of finding the cause of death. It's not a question of something we should create. This has already been invented in the Middle Ages, rather since 1720, these protocols. It's just an introduction to what we're talking about here, and experts are always getting caught up in these side-and-side issues. What bothers me most about the current situation is that we're still working backwards. The moment something happens, we'll start dealing with it. When we said in advance that preventive measures should be taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus, so that we would not disturb the use of drapes, it was rejected. The moment the infection started, we're starting to take precautions. But she's too late for the precautionary measures. The disease's already started. After all, the multiplication number is higher than one, and all the measures we're doing today must be relatively very hard and the results will be very slowly. I am really interested in the question I want to ask the Minister of Health, the entire government and the entire crisis staff, what steps they have in advance. Because what we're worried about right now is the question that we're not going to have enough medical facilities in bed, so that we can put these patients in, and that we're at risk of not having enough medical personnel. So at this point, what the government is declaring, or the Department of Health, is a good thing. Surely this is a way that may affect the risk of developing these infections, but we must be prepared for all these things to fail and that we will have to deal with a situation that will be next. And the other situation that's going to happen, theoretically, is that, according to today's concerns, there should be a situation where beds in the arses and in the ICUs will stop. At present, the number of ipa beds, those free ipa beds, is between 40 and 60 percent of their capacity. So it's not dizzyingly loose. It is the same with the busyness of doctors, which, of course, is aggravated by the fact that they too can be sick. And I ask what steps the Minister of Health has prepared for such further developments. In order to predict this further development, we need to know all the numbers that are decisive for it. And those critical numbers are how high the percentage of infected individuals is, how high the number of light courses is of this, the middle course and the difficult course. Define these numbers and say yes, I in December, if the development is negative or maximum, I will need so many beds, so many and so many doctors. There might be a situation where the beds won't be enough. I'm asking what steps we have in this situation. Right, my colleague Válek said it doesn't matter if the situation doesn't happen when we're set up for it. This cannot be considered a mistake that we were trying to solve something that could seriously endanger society. On the contrary, if it doesn't come up, we just have to be glad that we didn't have to take the steps we had planned. So what I'm interested in, and what I think we should all know is what kind of time development the minister assumes in this situation. Because from what Professor Dušek told us on the Health Committee, it turns out that, basically, the situation that the health system is going to be overwhelmed is going to happen. And we should be dealing with what we're gonna do today. I'm asking. Do we have an open energy capacity yet? Is the hospital in Těchinín ready? Do we have backup beds ready? Do we have a backup care system ready for patients who need a breathing device? Do we have an advance prepared to run out of doctors? How are we gonna deal with this? What profession is going to be the one we're going to be preparing to take over, for example, part of the work that doctors normally do at the anesthesiological resuscitation wards? We should just have an idea of what it's going to look like, and we should be perfectly safe to see what the developments in the individual hospital departments are. We should be prepping these departments for the situation, which means the department that didn't do it before, should have the ability to start taking care of light patients or middle-aged patients. Because the problem with this disease is the serious course that threatens the respiratory and circulatory system. By the time these patients are more than our capacity, we will have no more choice, no time to think of something new. [[15.20 hours]] So I'd like us to get this information and receive it on an ongoing basis. What hospital capacities look like, what doctors' capacities look like in individual professions and what is planned, how will be carried out the transfer of surplus patients between individual districts. If you look at the current situation, he's not here, but the Highlands, which he talks about a lot, have a big problem, too, because the capacity is primarily insufficient. So she's going to need it to be able to move patients somewhere because there's not a single extracorporeal circulatory system. And we should know all these things, we should know the answers to them, and then we can draw the right conclusions from these answers. At this point, it's not a question of solving whether we should wear protective equipment. At this point, we should talk as much as possible about which type of protective equipment is ideal and which should be used where the risk is greatest. Where the risk is greatest, we should learn by not saying the numbers that are so vague. When we talk about secondary schools - even the Minister of Education is not here - we must not say that there is a sharp increase, because the increase is by 1% against what it looked like before from the data I have available. And that's all important stuff. So what is necessary at this point is to start telling the truth, not to cover up the numbers that we know, but also not to distort them and expect that development will be adverse and prepare for that development. That means not to worry about me falling down, but about making the road so we don't fall on it. If we don't do this, all the steps that are now in place are good, but they won't stop us from getting into a problem that won't have an adequate solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u57	I thank Mr Svoboda. My colleague, Černohorský, will be able to wait. The President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura has signed up with priority rights. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u58	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I am sorry that the short match has been drawn by the Minister of Industry, Trade and Transport, because I have specific questions about the Minister of Health and I cannot expect the Minister's answers, I understand that. However, in one part of my speech I also have questions about the Minister of Industry and Trade because it concerns his department. I'd start by trying to evaluate the two first performances. The Prime Minister hasn't actually told us anything. I'm not entirely surprised. And the Minister of Health here has defined the targets he has for the next few weeks and months, and those targets are fine. I think that none of us can protest or question the objectives of getting it under control, reducing the reproductive number, maintaining a functional system of Czech health care and so on. However, what provokes the debate is the proposed actions and the proposed measures and the question of whether it is based on verified facts. When I was listening to the media appearances of the members of the government so far, I developed two working hypotheses - I note hypotheses, they may not be true either. The first hypothesis is that the government has numbers that neither we nor the public know about and acts on the basis of these numbers that are publicly unknown. The second hypothesis is that there are no such numbers, that the numbers that are published are actually all. Now we can talk about the level of detail, but I think the more detailed the data we're getting, the more confused the debate gets. I don't think we have to go through individual hospitals and the numbers of hospitalized patients, the number of beds and so on. And the Minister of Health is trying it blindly, the measures. I'll try to illustrate this on a particular case where I have a series of questions for the absent minister of health. In general, I want to say that this format is very unhappy. We were satisfied yesterday when we agreed on the Grémium that the Government would decide after the debate in the Chamber of Deputies. And where did we go? At the beginning, the performance was off-limits, which means that the Prime Minister's major performance and the Minister's speech did not come at that point where we agreed on the grémium, but actually before we even decided on a legislative emergency, and the government has been sitting since one, probably already decided or decided, and we are talking here, we are asking questions, we are trying to be constructive, but we are only talking to the Minister of Industry, and the government is in the meantime deciding. So answer for yourself the question of how helpful the government is - I hear the words I heard in March again in April: we all have to pull together, we are on the same boat - how the government's helpful approach demonstrates the course of today's negotiations. But think of it as such a sigh, it's not the most important thing. The most important thing is that the government should trust the public, not the opposition, to the government and the actions that the government is preparing. We are not discussing this to get some exclusive information as members of the Chamber of Deputies, but to give clear and understandable information to the public, to believe that the government has a good plan, well thought out steps, and to know what to prepare for. In his speech, the Minister of Health pointed out a group of high school students and said that at this point he was the most risky group, talking about some percentage that newly infected are high school students. At the same time, he admitted that he did not need an emergency for those measures that he and Minister Plaga are planning in secondary schools, that the existing legislative space still exists today is sufficient. I have the IHIS numbers where newly diagnosed patients are divided by age. And there's an age category of 16 to 19 years, which I think is exactly the category of high school students. Yes, in the spring the number of positively diagnosed or newly indicated in this category was 2,8, 2,3, 2.9, less than 2 percent in June. In July, however, 7,5 percent - not teaching, were holidays - 5.2% in August and 9.1 percent so far in September. So if we compare the numbers for September and July, the difference is relatively minimal. And if I take this week, it was 8,6, 9,8, 9,4 and 6.2. That means there's no dramatic difference between a vacation month and a month when standard high school education is already underway. We hear fairy tales here about how distance learning will take place, how all high school kids will sit at home with computers and participate in distance teaching. First of all, I want to know who really believes it and who knows what real life is like. And a question for the Minister of Health. Do you really believe those high school kids won't meet in the morning? I don't believe it. Instead of meeting in a classroom where the teaching takes place under strict hygiene conditions, they will meet somewhere else, where there are very likely to be much less strict hygiene rules, or perhaps none at all. So what's the result? [[15.30 hours]] The correct number is if we have the number of infected in this age category, for example, this week 240, 170, 128, 121, 122. How's the illness going with these high school kids? How many of them had to be hospitalized? Or how many of their relatives were infected from them? Let us know that this is indeed the most risky group identified by the Minister of Health. The numbers just don't talk about it. So either the hypothesis for A is that the government has some other numbers, based on it, or the hypothesis for B is that the Minister of Health is trying something blindly. The minister said that the reproductive number is about 1.2 at the moment and that the aim is to reduce it. Totally okay with that. At the same time, he said high school would close for 14 days. But what he didn't say is what happens after 14 days if it's the same reproductive number. The schools are gonna open, aren't they? If 1.1 instead of 1.2, schools will open up, won't they? None of us want that. I think everyone wants it to fall below 1.0. But there's no clear plan that we've been calling for for many months. For example, for parents and high school students to know, it's 1.2 now, we're shutting down school. If it turns out to be under 1.0 in 14 days, we'll open up the schools. If it's the same, we'll continue. If it's higher, we'll continue automatically. There was no such thing. Well, it's just a little bit of a fuss, isn't it? Don't worry, it's for two weeks. It's not a big deal. Everyone lasts two weeks. I don't know. Last year's school year was very problematic. And this year begins in a very similar way. And the quality of teaching is something that I think we all agree in the Chamber of Deputies that there is no one here who wishes the quality of teaching to fall. And no one can convince me that the distance form of teaching is a full replacement of the presentation form. I really can't be convinced. By the way distance education, distance education, or even work from home, home offices require much more discipline of a particular person than coming to work normally at your workplace or coming to class normally at your school. And we can reach into our own conscience as we would be able, for example, to work eight hours a day from home as in that office, or six hours a day to study as if we were sitting in that school. And that's just an example of where we have doubts about the effectiveness of these measures. I'm not saying they're bad. All I'm saying is that we don't have enough numbers available to be able to make a responsible assessment of whether this is a good, neutral or unnecessary measure. So I won't have strong words to the Minister's address that it's wrong. But at the same time, I can't convince the Minister that it's a good thing. I think it's a blind shot that can work or not. And we're just gonna follow the reproductive number? Or will we also monitor the proportion of this age category in the total number of newly diagnosed? I didn't even know that. I think it's relevant information. If the percentage goes down, it probably worked. Now I mean the number of all-round newly diagnosed. If not, it probably didn't work. Why is there so little difference between July and September? I really don't understand. Then, in my opinion, a completely incomprehensible approach to theatres. The drama could be, the opera wouldn't, and the opera wouldn't, because there's more spitting in there, if I understood correctly. I apologize to all the artists who work at the opera, in the opera or in the musicals. That's how it was explained. But we know the theatrical pieces in the drama where we speak quite loudly, where there are heated dialogues, where it is not just the statists who stand on the ground and do not go anywhere. I don't understand at all. And that way, we could dissect one proposed measure after another. But that's not the point. The purpose is to take action that the public will believe in and that will effectively lead to the desired goal. A few days ago, or maybe two weeks ago, we handed over a bill to government Members that would allow the testing capacity to be increased. In his introductory words, I think the Minister of Health said completely realisticly that we do not actually know how positive COVID is because we are unable to test all those who should be tested. Our proposal for them to run the tests at the pharmacy has several advantages. First of all, the pharmacists are ready. Secondly, the pharmacies network is quite dense, that is, it could also be tested in smaller mansions and smaller cities, and thus the effect would be that those undignified queues in large mansions, in those big cities, simply fall off, because those who have to go to that county or county town could arrange it. In those 14 days, there is a zero response from the government and ministers. Maybe it's not good. Maybe it's not a good idea. Maybe there are some technical flaws. But it's some idea consulted with experts who are ready to test. And at least we should have had a debate about it. But we don't run it at all. I think that is two weeks when my fellow Member Benda handed this proposal over to the Government Members. There are clearly already restrictions on some economic activities. Consider that a fact or a statement. Don't think of it as criticism. So I want to ask the Minister of Industry as a member of the government, because that falls within his purview. It is evident that the cursarbeit will not be on 1 November after today's decision by the Chamber of Deputies. I wouldn't be afraid to call it a government debacle. Let's talk about what happened. The government has proposed to discuss a law in a state of legislative emergency and has won one vote in the Chamber of Deputies, of half the number, so maybe if we were all of us, it won two votes. We're supposed to trust this government? Is that a thoughtful procedure when he gets one vote for his proposal in the Chamber of Deputies? We made a good decision. The proposal isn't well processed. And I think we can do it together. The final shape that goes into the upper chamber will be much better and be acceptable. But the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is not here because that is primarily her responsibility. Let's face it. How is that possible? I do not know from my mind how many ministers are at the same time Members and were present at the vote. But I would say that even all the ministers present did not vote in favour of what the government itself proposed. So the legislative emergency was supported by a Member of 102 or 104 present. And at the same time, the government is convincing us that it needs not only a legislative emergency but also an emergency. It doesn't feel right. I think at least the government was supposed to push for the first one. Or maybe she shouldn't have gone to the Chamber of Deputies at all, which would have been much better, of course. But that would miss the headlines and the screams on Twitter. We've got it, we've already got a deal, excellent news! Now, about the question. I told you in my first performance that the House's COVID Commission noted that Antivirus A was working. So I'd like to ask the minister a simple question, a little bit of a hit record, whether or not the government will extend the A program, because I think it's appropriate. Thanks to the measures taken by the government, some operations, such as the opera set, such as those who run musicals, will simply be shut down. They just won't be able to do business. And I think it would be fair for them to know, first of all, that the Antivirus A program will work, because that's for those cases where you can't do business from the government's decision, and it pays up to 80 percent of the supergross wage. And I also think it is appropriate, Minister, to think about activating the compensatory bonus. If we remember correctly, colleagues, the law we passed, unlike the first and second compensatory period, we gave the government the power not to come to the Chamber of Deputies next year and can declare it itself. And I think it's time for the government to go back to that and, for example, on purpose, I'm not saying for the whole economy right now, but for those affected sectors, the compensatory bonus went off. Because, of course, by restricting the freedom of assembly and limiting the number of participants in outdoor, but also internal events, in this way, the business of those who perform small concerts, small events, or even larger events has been indirectly disabled. Now I'm talking about the limits that have so far been paid. I'm not calling for no limit. [[15.40 hours]] So I think it's high time the government had a month left on Antivirus A, it's not so dramatic a time, but for the compensation bonus, I think it's high time. I think it would calm the entrepreneurs down, give them some assurance that the state wouldn't let them go, because I don't think any of us can say with certainty that in two weeks all these measures will be over. I think we all want this, but really no one can guarantee and have some assurance that at least a small amount of the state will help those who will be repeatedly in such a difficult situation that there would be good news. Otherwise, I wanted to ask the Minister of Health. He is preparing extraordinary measures that he wants to set out towards the operations of individual health establishments. I think I've got a draft of the measure ahead of me. And this actually says that county sanitation stations will be able to order individual hospitals and medical facilities to open departments, separate departments, move patients from one hospital to another, from one medical facility to another. Once again, I want to ask when it will be activated when the proposal is from 1 October, for what time and under what conditions the measure will expire. Since the Minister is not here, I guess we can't have a qualified debate about the text of the proposal, whether it's a good thing or not, and whether it would be better. The question is also, and it is a question in particular - and we have many colleagues of doctors and experienced hospital managers - whether regional hygiene is the right body of the government to decide, for example, on the transfer of patients from one hospital to another. I really don't know, I'll admit it. But there are enough colleagues here, either in opposition or in government benches, who might say something about it, so we know. Because it is extremely unpleasant - let's not talk about Prague now, let's talk about regions such as the Moravian-Silesian region - it is really very complicated for the family as long as the patients are being transported. The way I understood it, patients with other diseases could be transported, not just with covid. It's quite logical when you think about it. If any hospitals limit the other activities, those patients need the care. And it may threaten what many doctors say, and today we see the first consequences that people, both afraid and actually delay preventive examinations, then delay some procedures, and all of this can lead to a deterioration in the health status of particular citizens of the Czech Republic and, as a result of these victims, may be more than a media-based number of victims with covid. But unfortunately, the Minister isn't here, so we just can't debate it properly, honestly. In general, we didn't have to get into this situation, but maybe I'm surprisingly saying to you today, at this point, it's not entirely important what anyone has neglected or who has been late for. There'll be plenty of time after we've dealt with the other wave in some way. Today I have heard, and I must say, unfortunately, the statement of one government MP - don't get angry, I will not name him from the microphone at the moment. Here the responsibility for the current situation in the Czech Republic was clearly passed on to citizens. I must say, I consider that a rather arrogant statement. If we were successful in the first wave, we heard from a member of the government who usually sits behind me, Prime Minister: I did it, the government did it, we are the best in covid. So when we did it, it was the government's fault. Yes, exactly the opposite opinion. Who sewed the drapes? Who equipped the citizens with protective aids - the government or themselves? After all, the citizens were disciplined, solidarity, responsible, so the success that was undoubtedly here was the success of the citizens, only then the government. And it doesn't matter who's in that government. Now I don't mean it politically at all in the sense that another government was better or worse, it's just a theoretical debate, because another government at this time will just never rule. But I think we have to give credit to the public, but the vast majority of the public and many professions, from paramedics, doctors, nurses, an integrated rescue system, but it's also forgotten about drivers who were delivering goods, food, delivery services, Czech Post, that's what I could name. So it was really a joint work. Hey, the moment there's a problem where the numbers are growing insatiably and nobody's happy about it, all of a sudden it's the public's fault. No one else. That doesn't seem fair. The biggest problem I feel here in these weeks and months, and I will not go back to those futile debates in the House when we called on what to do in June. Professor Svoboda had on 6 May, I found a press conference when he presented a clear plan and clear steps that should be taken to prevent the arrival of the second wave. So I feel like the government, the state - let's say it's not just personalized to the government - is progressing in the style of the brake - the gas. I don't know if you've ever driven with a driver who knows this style of driving. Brake - gas. It's not pleasant. It must be said that the strong step on the brake in March was correct. I don't think that's what we're thinking, and I think the opposition appreciated it many times, that it was the right measure. But we had six months to prepare preventive measures and drive as smoothly as possible, maybe faster, maybe slower for a while, but fluently. I found a speech today by the Minister of Health from last week when he ruled out an emergency to say four days later that we're gonna need it. I'd still understand if at least we had the numbers. If he said: if the situation is such and such, there will be so many beds occupied, vacant, in which case we will want to take these measures, and since these measures need emergency conditions, I will suggest to the government - by the way, we have always been skeptical of the position of government agent for science and research in health care, so I think the name of Mr Prymula's previous post was. I'm curious to know who's gonna take her today, really it was... shadowy probably not when he was a government, so a substitute health minister, until he became that real health minister. The emergency situation seems similar to that of me. I would expect the first person to inform the public - the public, not the opposition, the public - that the government is considering an emergency situation is the Prime Minister, not the Minister of Health. I don't really know who's running the government. And then the Prime Minister will say in the TV debate: if the Department of Health suggests it, I'll be in favour. And to the question of what it means: I don't know yet, but I'll be in favour. So again, unfortunately, my second hypothesis is that these are blind measures. Even so, they may be successful, which I do not doubt, but I think that when these measures are being prepared without context, without data, there is a higher risk of mismeasurement. It doesn't automatically mean it's gonna be wrong. Once again, it may well prove that the measure was correct, but there is an increased risk that the measure will not be correct. I would like the Czech public in the coming weeks and months not to run the brake and gas system as far as possible, so that it can clearly explain its actions, which it is preparing, and I wish all of us that the public believes it. Because without public confidence, it doesn't really matter what the government decides, or the House and the upper chamber. And I have a feeling that the public's trust, which certainly existed here in March, April, May, was actually squandered by the government. Even the public debate - now I don't mean in the House, in general - about the possible second emergency situation is much sharper than it was in March. Yes, we had a debate about whether it would extend by two or three weeks, we extended it twice in the Chamber of Deputies, but the public was much more positive about it than today. And that is the result of the government's miscommunication. [[15.50 hours]] And just like that. If the government really has to gain confidence in me, then what should the citizen think when he reads today's interview with the former Minister of Health, who I think ended up in government for absurd reasons according to Andrej Babiš - I think it's a good thing that he quit - but the reason for Andrej Babiš is that he was very polite! Are we really going to accept that being decent in politics is a downside? And that decent people are to be dismissed? Or is there something wrong with that reasoning? Seriously, read all the interviews of Andrej Babiš about why the former Minister of Health left - he was decent... That's a plus. That's an advantage. Not a minus and a downside. At least in the normal world. It's probably a disadvantage for Andrej Babiš. Well, to tell the whole story. So tonight, open an article, an interview with the former Minister of Health, who was so polite and great and the best Minister of Health in 30 years, as Andrej Babiš said, and the headline - I also got the question there, and the answer is: I am not in favour of introducing an emergency... So you don't have it discussed with each other, you're not able to enforce a state of legislative emergency in the Chamber of Deputies, you're going to challenge us and, above all, the public, let them believe it, follow the government - but you're not clear about it. And that's the biggest problem. I apologize to Minister Havlíček, those questions for the Minister of Health, they were not really directed at you. I wonder if you're willing to answer those questions about the compensation bonus and Antivirus A, or whether you're thinking about some other form of helping those sectors and those particular entrepreneurs who are affected, whether it's a restaurant with shorter working hours, whether it's limiting the number of participants at these events or so on, because I think it would be fair. And we're ready to contribute to the debate. And one last thing. I would like to know the Minister's personal opinion because he is actually the Minister of Business and Businessmen of his department. I really don't understand why the government is so fiercely resisting the debate on the extension of the Antivirus C programme. No doubt, Minister, if you ask small companies, they need to confirm that they were satisfied with the program, that it was not bureaucratically demanding and that it actually saved them money that they could invest elsewhere. The proposal is here for several weeks and we are unable to even get it on the agenda, let alone vote and decide whether small companies and businessmen deserve to forgive social security for the last four months of this year. I'm really sorry. I already said this morning that we were actually just - in quotation marks only, it's not little, but we don't change parameters, de facto we adopted a bill that passed in a form that suited the government's majority, we just wanted to extend the efficiency, because it's a really very good program. And the government resists debate and vote. And I'm sorry. Because we could say here, for example, what do you see in the problem of such a proposal? We see the positives. We don't see any negatives. And I see that the Minister is going to, so I thank him first of all for allowing the House to act by coming, and secondly, I thank you in advance for being prepared to debate those issues concerning the support of entrepreneurs and instruments that the government can offer entrepreneurs, employers and those who must restrict their activities for hygienic or epidemiological reasons. [[Minister Havlíček stands ready near the speaker's desk]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u59	That was with priority rights the zbytek of Stanjur. We now have Mr Radek Koten's factual comment and then, with priority rights, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport, Karel Havlíček. My colleague, Černohorský, will wait. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I, after hearing all the arguments that have been made here, have only a little bit of a insertion, which is quite interesting compared to what we are dealing with now. I draw from the semester's work of Jan Vašíček from the Faculty of Applied Sciences, the University of West Bohemia in Pilsen, and the semester's work is called Model of spread of influenza type A. From those documents - there are data published, so in the period 1995 to 1996 we had a very large influenza epidemic here, after about seven weeks since it started, we had 90 thousand patients with serious complications here. The epidemic ended sometime in the spring months of 1996 and there were 1.1 million patients in the Czech Republic. Of the 1.1 million patients, 12,000 people died. If I compare it to the numbers that we now have at our disposal, I'm just asking mathematically and statistically if we can somehow compare the numbers that we have at our disposal. That's all I wanted to say. And I'm not questioning any of the doctors who have spoken here about what can happen, etc., but it's a very similar situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u61	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact and now with priority rights Vice-President Karel Havlíček. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to react briefly. First a little more from the top (?) before I go to the economics. I'd stick to the fact that the results will be decided in the finals. The results aren't final yet, how we were able to cope with coronavirus. We made it through the first half, I guess there's no doubt about it, very well and the second half is running. And that reckoning will come within a few months, perhaps even later, and it will undoubtedly be with regard to how many people were unfortunately dead, how many people were on the bed, we will compare it with individual countries, and I think we will very well evaluate how the Czech Republic has turned out. It is not about what the media say, what the opposition MEPs say, coalition MPs, it is purely about the facts of the outcome. Now, therefore, to the economic belongings to which I was called. As regards the aid, so-called The compensation bonus to the tradesmen, so it was the support that worked well, I think we can agree on that. It was realized in the period of general restrictions, i.e. at a time when the economy really closed down, and in that moment about 500 thousand. The traders received this support. I merely note that we have supported businessmen in total about 50 billion. Crowns. Firstly, it was this compensatory bonus that landed on one businessman, if he had exhausted, of course, all months, an amount of approximately 43-44 thousand. Kroner, and another 30 thousand. got the businessman by forgiving social and health benefits, i.e. In total, it was in the order of over 70 thousand. And there were also some small benefits that could be obtained by businessmen, rents, some had employees, etc. So for about one businessman, if he used the maximum he could, it was about 80 grand. We didn't see if the businessman worked well, on average, or badly. There was undoubtedly the tradesmen who made money in quotation marks, i.e. they were given more than they would normally earn at a given time, but of course there were also those who would earn significantly more, i.e. It was so called. helicopter raid. This helicopter raid, even though we're 50 billion. they've already spent, we can't repeat purely because they're not area measures. What makes sense is that I would agree, and that is what we do if, whether tradesmen - I wouldn't just give it to a businessman-infertilizer, or other small companies, medium companies or even larger companies in sectoral issues, so focus on them. If it's a one-time contribution or anything, it's another. I'm just going to say two or three examples that we're doing or we're going to do, these are sectors that are affected. For example, this is the case. about carriers that travel by tour. Obviously, business hasn't started, or the business hasn't started, so we're making them so-called. Seat mode. Approximately a billion crowns will be allocated there, or a billion crowns so far, to be exact, and over the number of seats and the type of bus will receive specific support. Others are the entrepreneurs mentioned here, they are entrepreneurs in culture, which may still increase the importance of this support at the moment, so we have prepared another approximately 700 miles there. Crowns. And we're going to extend the COVID - Culture program, which has been exhausted so far, we're going to see what happens today at 200 miles in order. Crowns. And the 700 miles. CZK will be written for entrepreneurs, in simple terms, in kumště - small companies, businessmen and those who, for example. they run a music club, they have to have it closed, or they have a festival, and they can't also organize, organize musicians, theaters, or something like that. So it's a program that starts in two weeks. And that's how we're gonna focus... I still think of trade fairs, which is also a segment that is severely affected and which we will now also activate and receive specific support. [[16.00 hours]] And that's actually how we're going to go segment by segment, and if we see that segment is not working, sectorally inhaling, then we're going to prepare for it with specific support, not a helicopter raid. And if it is in the form of a bonus à la compensation bonus, or in the form of a seat or something else, it is to some extent in agreement with those responsible associations, associations etc. As for antivir and Kursarbeit, that was another question, so technically cursarbeit, I don't want to comment on that legislative run. We know that next Wednesday will definitely be here, so it was a technical issue, why it moved on to that Wednesday. As far as Antivirus is concerned, the Antivirus, in our opinion, fills and fills its essence. The second thing is how the economy is going to evolve. Kurzarbeit was not automatic in the sense that it was automatically started as of 1 November. Kurzarbeit was because if the economic situation - and now we can talk about the parameters that will occur, whether sectorally, regionally, or simply globally - we are ready to deploy the cursarbeit, and yet we will undoubtedly look at it during October, even if it were to extend the Antivirus in some way, depending on how the different sectors will stand. So far, the economic situation is going a little bit better than we expected. Clearly, the measures we took during spring and summer have worked. It can be seen that companies have been re-entering the yield curve at least in the last few weeks. Of course, the situation may be a little different now, we will see how they will stand during October, but in any case, according to the economic results and the market situation during October, rather in the first half, we will decide how to go further in November.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u63	I thank the Prime Minister, the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, has made a point of fact. You have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u64	Thank you for the floor. I didn't, Minister, call for a helicopter raid and boarding measures. On the contrary, I was talking about the time for the government to come up with concrete support for those who are already hit today and will be hit tomorrow and next week. We can't discuss this again. That's what we're saying, that there are no plans for legislation for such... But moving the cursarbeit to next Wednesday isn't a technical thing. It really isn't. It's consistent with the quality of the proposal. And unfortunately, you're wrong about what you said. There is no parameter - there is no parameter to run the cursarbeit! It's like this for the government. Any government, I say. There's not a single parameter. There was at least one parameter in the original proposal - the number of unemployed people, the rate of increase in the number of unemployed people, while 400,000 were some boundary that could automatically be triggered. So the whole thing is written that some wise people's advice will come together and decide whether they do or not. There's no parameter. That's why the proposal is extremely bad. And we can believe that the government will make good or bad decisions, but if we look at Germany - I have heard x words from the ministers' mouth in the last few months, as we will be inspired in Germany. Does the government in Germany decide that? Aren't there clear parameters? You will come up with this legislative pasquila, with an incredible concentration of power in the hands of the government, and you will not even be able to discuss it as you wish. Which is a good thing, I say. I am satisfied that we will have time to discuss this normally in committees, and I think that when I see Radim Fiala, it will be more than just a committee on social policy, but above all an economic committee and possibly a budget committee. I don't know, but the economics should definitely be debating this, because everyone has opposed you - unions, employers. You didn't get a single vote to appreciate the legislative proposal. [[Time warning]] So no technical delay. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u65	Thank you. It's okay. Good afternoon, everyone. We will therefore continue the open general debate. Mr Černohorský is now in office, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I'm glad to confess, I have questions about the Minister of Industry and Trade. As Mr. Baxa here has already overshot, at this point, the cultural scene has actually been hit in the past, and the music scene is at this moment slowly on the brink of collapse. Even in the past, independent culture has not been threatened the way it is now, because if it has occurred, I suppose, to declare the emergency situation that we are talking about right now, and if there are restrictions on actions in the inner space of only 10 people, it will be a complete disaster for those smaller music clubs. The association of independent music bringing together music clubs in the Czech Republic states that there are around 350 music clubs in the whole Republic, which cannot actually work at this time, and their average basic monthly operating costs are from CZK 50 to 80,000. These are fixed costs which must be paid for rent and energy advances. However, the vast majority of them exhausted their reserves during the spring, when we had already closed them, and over the summer, operators were more or less trying to improvise because the music scene was moving to outdoor concerts and outdoor events. The domain of this autumn season is the internal events, because of course everyone is gradually moving into those clubs. The clubs began to prepare for the autumn season and hoped that the hardest moments were behind them at this time, but with the fact that the current measures and the zero help for them were an ice shower. If the government lets music clubs fall, it will be a loss for the Czech culture, which will be difficult to repair. There is a risk that entrepreneurs or operators of these clubs will start to talk about rents, leave the premises, and owners will start using these premises for something else if they find any tenant at all. They will actually start with professions that are not only linked to clubs, they will mostly be self-employed, they will have to look for alternative ways to support themselves and their families, or they will end up at the office of employment, which, of course, threatens to do in the fall. And when they return to normal, it will be very difficult to restore the lost operation, because most of the funds they had in reserve have already been used to cover it to the present moment, and if there are still any hearts left, they are significantly more indebted. So, of course, for them in the future, the problem will be to rebuild the scene. The majority of Czech music club operators agree that if the state could pay them fixed operating costs and, at the same time, they could draw on some extended, for example, 25, as she was here, they would be able to cope with the situation and they could restore their operations once the situation has calmed down. The state would not be very much in this case, so it is mainly about the clubs. It could be about CZK 30 million a month, which is not an over-the-counter sum given that 900 million were allocated in the COVID - Culture programme itself. The Minister may then correct me, but at this point I feel that only about 100 million crowns have been exhausted. According to these operators, the reason for the low use of funds from the programme is not only complicated bureaucracy, but especially a very narrowly defined range of costs for which the State has promised a contribution. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister whether he would comment on the extension of the COVID - Culture and COVID - Rent, because, in fact, the application options end today, but, as we know, they are likely to come back on Monday with restrictions to limit the operation of these very operators, and whether he is planning to modify, in some way, the rules of the COVID - Culture and possibly COVID - Rent to achieve as broad a range of eligible applicants as possible. Because, as I say, the announcement of the emergency situation and the follow-up measures that will definitely arrive will affect not only the CFI and the agreement makers operating in the culture, which are artists, illuminators, managers, producers and others, but also technical companies or music and multifunctional halls. So I was gonna ask for that statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u67	Yes, the Minister has applied with priority rights, so he will probably answer the questions raised, then Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u68	As far as the COVID - Culture programme is concerned, the first challenge ends today, the second challenge is already underway for about a month, a month and a half with representatives of culture, because, in fact, culture, the first challenge, was prepared with representatives, whether those clubs that were mentioned or various small theatres, etc. According to our estimate of less than 200 million crowns, 700 million crowns will remain and 700 million crowns will be included in challenge number two. [[16.10 hours]] The challenge will be officially published somewhere in mid-October, because it is not entirely easy to get into the game all interest groups in the area of business in the kumště. Otherwise, musicians look at it, or theaters, or small clubs look at it, or the organizers of larger festivals look at it. And getting it cost-effectively so that they can actually prove what they have at proven costs, or for what they would have had if they were operating in a standard situation, isn't quite a trivial thing. The first challenge was quite simple administratively, but I agree that the costs were narrowed. Now we're going to expand it so they just have a bigger possibility of pumping. But we're not going to run the rental program anymore, because it was flat for any store that was closed, and it was for three months, because at this point, it wouldn't make any sense. The vast majority of shops go, work and prosper. However, of course, the cost of the rent, if it should, will certainly be able to be included in the COVID - Culture program, challenge number two. So they shouldn't lose anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u69	Thank you. And now, Mr Ferjenčík is enrolled in the general debate. Mr. Válek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will add two resolutions on this point concerning two things that we believe the government has forgotten. The first concerns the call for renewal, respectively. prolonged Antivirus A. We see a real problem there as the quarantine increases. The program, if I'm not mistaken, maybe you've modified something in the last few days, but according to my information, it still ends at the end of October, and in our opinion, it's practically certain that at the end of October, the epidemiological situation will not be so good as to really concern some slim number of employees. And today, they're just gonna pay the companies out of their own business, and according to our concerns, they're not gonna have the money. The second thing is from a similar wound, it's an infirmary for businessmen in case the school goes into quarantine. When school goes into quarantine today, parents who are businessmen aren't entitled to the infirmary. We think it's necessary to deal with this, whether through the grant program, like in the spring or through the change of legislation, but it's not possible to leave these people in the lurch. The third thing I consider essential, but basically it's addressed by the ODS proposal on Antivirus C. Let's go to the pubs and other hotel-type businesses affected, or, as I was talking about the transport services and a lot of others of course, at least let's at least forgive them the social security, so at least they don't have to pay those mandatory payments to the state. It's incomprehensible to them - you're doing a subsidy program for everything, but the mandatory payments to the state remain. So let's start by forgiving them what the state is getting, and then we'll solve the subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u71	Thank you. And now, Mr Válek, Mr Baxa will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u72	Thank you, Mr President. As I presented, I prepared a resolution, which I will then read when it comes to the show. However, I would like to thank you very much for your assistance to Mr Nacher. I think he hit a nail on the head, if that's what I'm saying. We were just talking about 'covid or covid', so maybe then I would, if through the President, Mr Svoboda listens, Mr Svoboda, then perhaps he will say something about it as a comment. But in principle, we're accepting patients with some kind of diagnosis to the hospital. We're not talking about outpatients. We're talking about patients admitted to the hospital. He's admitted with some kind of diagnosis. He's admitted, say, with a diagnosis of gallbladder cancer. Now he's in surgery, and there's gonna be some complication during the surgery, or he's gonna get pneumonia after surgery, and he's gonna die of pneumonia. But there's a cancer of the gallbladder in the history of the disease, because that was the reason. Then it can appear when there's a secondary cause, and it'll need the pneumonia. Of course, if the patient has an autopsy, and today the patients have very few autopsies because the legislation has changed and it's basically not easy to dissect the patient, so the autopsy is minimal. Thus, the pathologist may eventually find, for example, a thrombus ruptured during the pneumonia. The thrombosis went into his brain, and he died of a stroke because he clogged his blood vessels in his brain. And then the cause of death by the pathologist will be clogging the blood vessels in the brain. [[determined]] But basically, the primary cause was still gallbladder cancer with which he was admitted. This means the patient who is admitted to the hospital with a diagnosis of covid, so his condition is not good, he has to be accepted, and the condition gradually deteriorates, so he moves on those beds, over the bed some bed where he needs oxygen, up to the bed where he needs a sort of higher device where he needs a ventilator, and finally he can move to the bed where he needs ECMO. And the number of beds is decreasing in that direction, which means the narrow throat is, of course, the beds that have specialized equipment. I'm a radiologist, I don't sort of fill out you here, but Mr. Docent, colleague Běhounek is, through Mr. President, filling out, so maybe... That means, it's hard to explain why it's "s" and "sort of" but I think it's really a substitute problem. The second thing we talked about - positive tests. I wouldn't mind my hospital, Brno University Hospital, putting my hand in the fire, just because as deputy to the percentage of computer science... Now the data's coming through me. It's just impossible for us to fake the test results from our hospital in any way. I can't do that. There's a triple check. It would be such a big problem to fake it, it would just have to be a huge number of people involved, and to coordinate, if I wanted to fake it, it would be difficult. But the fact is, the result of the PCR test, of course, depends on some things, when the crucial one is how good the swab is. If they rub your nose on the tip, it'll stick a little bit deep, so of course the result can be completely different than when it sticks it very deep into your other hole. So then you can, because both of them are usually wiped out, if I'm well aware of it, it can happen that one swab is essentially negative, and the other one will come out highly positive, because it depends on how well the swab has been performed. And the last thing I want to do is make a note of the A-type flu, the thesis. Yes, but the virus doesn't act like the flu. He's acting different. And now I'm - I'm terribly sorry to everyone who's an expert, I'm not an expert, and I'm not an expert, but I'm trying to study it honestly. You have two choices. You have a disease that's very deadly, which means anyone who gets it will practically die. It's contagious, but it's spreading so slowly. That means the risk of getting infected from you is very low. So the reproductive number is low, but anyone who gets it dies. So if he gets the disease here, let's say 5,000 people, they die 4,900; 4,900 needs an acute care bed, with fans - it's a problem. But the infected are 5,000. Well, here's some precautions. And then you have a disease that is spreading very quickly, essentially a huge risk that someone gets infected when the second infected moment is, that is, the reproductive number is growing very rapidly, if you don't take any measures, they grow here, through the President's docent Svoboda explained it, the reproductive number, the exponential increase, but the serious course of the disease may have only one percent of the infected people. There's no problem if there's 10,000 infected. The moment those infected are a million, it's a completely unmanageable problem, because then one percent is a huge number. And that's what I think we've been talking about all along - trying to reduce the reproductive number and reduce the absolute number of infected, and basically the uninteresting ones who are asymptomatic, have no problems, have no symptoms, so they're actually reducing them, the absolute number with a severe progression. And in this case, we can't do anything but reduce the number of infected people in general, because it's still one percent. And one percent of the million is something other than one percent of the 10,000, in this case. And once again, we know from the theories about the spread of infectious diseases when it's a reproductive number - or we know it's published - when the reproductive number grows above a certain limit, there's no easy way to regulate it. There's no easy way to knock it down in a short time. That means the goal is to really reduce the absolute number of infected people so that they can get it under control. [[16.20 hours]] I'll stop. And I would very much like to do - it is part of the motion for my resolution, or it is my motion for a resolution. I think the health committee should be prepared to answer those questions that we all get from all sides, we're looking for answers, and it confuses the public. I think the Department of Health should face it and clearly prepare some answers. And I think that here in the Chamber of Deputies, members of the Health Committee, we will find consensual answers for which, let's say, not as experts, but as The Chamber of Deputies can somehow be vouchsafed and we can somehow insist that the Ministry of Health, with the help of professional companies, also give an opinion which is a consensual position of representatives of those professional companies. [[on that]] Because I think misinformation is a huge problem here, and it's hard to explain. If I'm talking to anyone face-to-face, I can explain it, but it's very hard to explain whether I answer on Facebook or on networks. And that matches the radiologist, I'm a photographer, I'm not an epidemiologist, so I'm also an inaccurate answer, and that's not exactly correct what I'm answering. Then I have to go back to the hospital and talk to my colleagues who are epidemiologists, and believe me, I don't want to feel like an idiot in my community. That really doesn't make me feel good. I'm so sorry and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u73	Thank you. This speech raised two factual points, so Mr Svoboda, then Mr Mašek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u74	Thank you. As my colleague Válek said, it's very crucial that we know what those patients died for and how serious the disease was. I have to get back to what I said. If we did an autopsy on all the deceased, we'd have to answer the basic question. The first question is what is the underlying disease? The underlying disease may be cancer. The second question that the autopsy has to answer is what complications the underlying disease had. That could be the fact that the bone that the cancer has grown into has broken. The third question is your own cause of death, which could be that the person had a heart attack. And the last one is collateral damage that he has for other diseases. The pathology is a very sophisticated science. You know that Jan Jesenius performed his first public autopsy in 1600, performed two, nine and eleven in a row. So all of this is processed. For example, having cancer cannot be abandoned in the diagnosis and cause of death because it is such a serious disease that ultimately always leads to death. So in the list of patients with covid, the covid may not be led as cause of death, but may be led as complications, and the strength of the complication is expressed as a percentage of how much it aggravated the course of the disease. But this is essentially not decisive in this diagnosis, because covid as such affects the respiratory system, burdens the pulmonary membranes, and there is always a complication that makes the underlying serious disease significantly worse. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] So even if it's not cause of death, that's why the patient died.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u75	Thank you. Now, with Mr Mašek's point of fact, then Mr Nacher. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to try to translate the academic debate into a pragmatic and practical discussion. First of all, the comparison between the flu and the covid, as Mr Koten said here through the President, is inaccurate, because the flu is coming and going, it is a seasonal issue. Covid's here with us, and he's gonna be here for a while, and if there's no vaccine, then we have to deal with him. A few notes on that. We did the first stage, then we all relaxed, we have our share, we have our part in it and the opposition's opinions on it, we all have our share in it. Yet, for the second time, we pulled the same rescue brake again. I think it came in time. I think the results are already here, the reproductive number 1.6, which we're cursing, has fallen to 1.2. Now I would like to say to Professor Prymul. He picked high school kids. Yeah, he found 9 percent of maybe a signless prom. And it's a group that, if it stays at home for 14 days, 10 days will pass, if they're unsignificable, then they'll return relatively healthy again to the trial. If this move works, it will be a very significant achievement. I see the steps as reasonable, I wouldn't demonize them. I'd remind you of rule 3 R. If we follow them together, we have a very good chance of dealing with it. We're protecting hospitals from the influx of covid patients, who would then push out the patients we're talking about with cancer and all that. I wouldn't be scared. Patients today are not afraid, they go to the doctor's office, they solve their current problems. We as practical doctors can solve them, we can take the risk and not transfer them to other patients. So I don't see it that bad at the moment. Let's wait, let's follow these rules of 3 R and I believe, I really believe it will succeed. And if we lower that number R under 1, that's the target. I'd just like to remind you, you know, that there were those in the discussions who were totally demeaning it, and also those who said that we'd already have flooded hospitals. [[Time warning.]] So I think we're on our way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u77	Thank you. Now, Mr Nacher, at this point in time, last with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u78	Good afternoon. I'd like to thank both the professors for their explanation. It's pretty important whether he's dying of or with, because that mortality is an important indicator given the size and the amount of it when we're talking about percentages, the pardons, the tenths of promile, it's a huge difference. I understand from that, as I told the professor, the example I heard from the medical environment, by the way, when the chimney sweeper has a heart attack, he falls off the tenth floor, he gets run over by a bus, and he just happens to have a positive covid, so I'm assuming he doesn't have it in the statistics. However, I still haven't exactly understood - the moment a person has a heart attack or a stroke, and at the same time he finds himself positive, where he appears in the statistics. Whether he shows up or not, 'cause he can really cheat on those numbers. I guess that's what the debate is about. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u79	Thank you for not spending time. Let's move on. Mr Baxa in the general debate, then Mrs Richterová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u80	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues. I spoke rather speculatively here in my morning speech in the field of culture; I only responded to what Minister Prymula, respectively, published. What seemed to really happen. I was talking about the critical situation in the field of music clubs, the cultural sphere, in the field of concerts and the whole business that is linked to this in a good way. I must honestly say that I believed that when the individual government measures were published this afternoon, it would be organised in a more sensible way, more meaningful way, that it would take greater account of the specific conditions in the various cultural institutions. And now, just on the basis of media output, not on the basis of a specific written version of these measures, I have read that unfortunately this is not the case and that the government has indeed taken very restrictive measures in the field of culture. When I saw the measures as a whole, I did not see any measures relating to hypermarkets, any measures relating to greater gathering of persons, for example in the field of trade in general, etc. Or, ladies and gentlemen, I feel that culture, in particular, theatres and concerts, has simply become a victim of some narrow segment, a narrow view of this matter. Of course, I respect the right of the government to make such decisions on this matter. I understand Minister Prymula's arguments that he did not want to do so-called, as he said, interference in relation to business, but what I read in relation to culture has really devastating effects not only on the pursuit of cultural activities themselves, but also on people who are employed in culture. I have decided, on the basis of what I have seen today, to present a motion for a resolution, which is generally formulated, which I will read in detail in a detailed debate, and on the basis of this proposal, I wish the Chamber of Deputies to call on the Government to minimise the amount of restrictive measures in culture, so that the adoption of each of these measures would prevent the publication of valid information on how this performance can have concrete effects on the spread of the viral situation. [[16.30 hours]] Just as I traveled and visited a number of Czech theatres, I know the theatre scenes in which the distance between viewers and actors takes only a meter, and when there is a lot of emotional activity, there is undoubtedly some kind of dropper contact. On the other hand, there are theatres with a great distance between the auditorium and the stage, where undoubtedly even singing performances can have no impact on those visitors. This means that what this means is really going to be published. To ensure that restrictive measures are considerate in relation to the effects they may have. In order to consult those restrictive measures with cultural actors themselves in terms of their feasibility and, above all, to compensate the government for the impacts that individual restrictive measures may have on the field of culture. When I heard Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček here - Mr. Vice Prime Minister, when you spoke about how the COVID - Culture program is pumped, I asked myself a question, and I will answer it immediately, because I know the answer partially whether the less than 200 million ready to draw are not due to the fact that these people might not want to or those cultural actors would not want to draw the money, but whether the correct conditions of the program are set. Whether the program isn't too bureaucratic, the conditions aren't too restrictive. And I am convinced that this is the case that the COVID - Culture programme was simply too, or the first version, the first challenge was too restrictive, too restrictive and too insistent to compensate for the various impacts of government restrictions on culture. So much for my motion for a resolution. Overall, I would like to call on the government, the Minister of Culture, who is not present here, to have the utmost respect for the way the Czech culture works, for the values it brings. Because I am actually convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that Czech theatres are not the main place where coronavirus spreads and which has led to the start of the second wave of epidemics, that they are not even music clubs, that they are not even other places in which cultural actors operate with all their strength and tenacity, and that we should help them at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u81	Thank you. I'm gonna ask for more peace in the room. With a factual point of view, Mr Výborný is reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. That is why I have only taken a factual point, but I do not want my colleague, Mr Baxa, to be alone in this as chairman of the subcommittee on culture. I think we need to get a loud word out here. Culture is kind of a whack job. Unfortunately, when we look at the state budget, it often does so. No Minister of Culture has it easy in this sense, and I think that even in this situation, when there is a selective solution here, which segment of public life, social life will now be somehow limited as a result of government measures against covid, so cultural communities will stand up for themselves. Stand up for the theaters, stand up for the orchestras. Not only do I not really understand the difference between acting, where there are often very loud dialogues close to each other and so on, and opera and operetta. These are things that, of course, must be communicated and explained by epidemiologists whether or not there are differences. But the Minister of Culture of Zaorálek, in the past few days, has been very strongly reminded of the fact and the fact that these are not cultural institutions where COVID-19 would spread, that the opposite - and that this is documented by numbers - is absolutely minimal. Yet today we hear that the impact on culture will also be very strong. And now that we have Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček, I would like to ask for some information as to whether the second challenge COVID - Culture is already being administered in some way, because in that first challenge there were some, I think, slightly over a hundred applications. The very minimum of the funds was used. And if there are other restrictive measures here, I think it is really necessary to be prepared, not to react ex post, but also forward, with clear deadlines, with a clear possibility of financial compensation for cultural institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u83	Thank you. The Minister wants to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u84	Yes, the challenge number two has been preparing with a business community in culture for about one month. Otherwise, even the first challenge was prepared by more or less actors in the field of culture, and however simple it may seem, it is not trivial to put together a challenge where musicians, theaters, small club operators, festival operators, etc. will be satisfied. And making dozens of different challenges doesn't make sense. That means yes, it's included in one challenge. It must also be perceived that the call was being prepared sometime in early July, at a time when the theatres and some activities of this nature had already started. That means there wasn't enough pressure to be excessive in the sense that anything would be paid off. In the meantime, the situation has evolved into a form that we see that culture is still not starting, so there will be challenge number two. In principle, it is ready, but there are still some administrative issues involved. Otherwise, administratively it is not complicated, it is quite a simple thing, but, of course, it is not easy in the field of culture to be able to cover expenses, because they are not only linked to what they had costs or what the costs are at the moment. They have a problem with having lost profits. And that, of course, is the problem that arises there. This means to formulate it so that it can be supported by something tangible, it is not a trivial matter at all, it has been working on it for several days, perhaps even weeks, and it should be started around mid-October. Even though I'm not an epidemiologist and God forbid I'm going into this discussion when I see everyone expressing themselves to this epidemic, then the question you had is what's the difference between sitting in the theater and sitting at a concert, of course, we had today against Minister Prymul. [[to the Excellent Member]] The answer was clear and simple. Number of those who have been infected as part of transmission within e.g. Theater, it's absolutely minimal. The number of those infected in concerts, for example, is significantly larger in the musical work, when it was sung. And it's not a step that happens only in the Czech Republic, it's the same as Germany. But now I'm just quoting what the Minister of Health said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u85	Thank you. And the final application for the general debate is by Mrs Richterová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u86	Thank you for the floor. I will follow up on the Minister as constructively as possible because he quoted information on where the disease is occurring, what is the place where it is proven that the transmission is the most common. It is the first thing I would like to point out to you, Minister, as the only government representative here, unfortunately, that by highlighting these figures, not only general information, because this is the most common, but clearer numbers, people's confidence in the fact that the government's decisions are based on clear data and that the measures put in place simply support the facts. And what I would ask for. On the Health Committee, we had at least a look at the breakdown of people infected by profession, and perhaps it was quite obvious which profession by being among them the most infected - of course, after some adjustment to how many people in general are in the population of this profession - which are therefore more risky, where the disease occurs more often. And that is one way to increase confidence that these measures are important and necessary. And that's exactly what we're asking for. Likewise, with regard to singing, concerts and the like, it is clear, of course, in today's situation that many of these diseases do not have a way of transmitting, but where this is found, at least you can use it as a specific support argument. To sum up, on the first point that I want to make here and which we consider pirát to be extremely important: publishing as much information as possible as you use to make your decision will lead to greater public confidence that measures make sense and even greater respect for those measures. And in the end, keeping it is what you should be most interested in. Therefore, I am asking not only what we consider to be the pirát as important, but also really transparent publication of intensive care capacities, not only beds, but especially health care personnel. Because it can be mentioned here again that the cork, the blocker, in our capacities are quarantines and medical diseases. But when the public sees it in a clear number, it will be much more credible and understandable than general information. [[16.40 hours]] Just as I was talking about trust right now and really strengthening the willingness of each of us to follow all the measures, I would like to talk about positive motivation in the second part. We are seeing restrictions again, but it works as best as possible when we believe what needs to be done and we feel positive encouragement from the government, a little reward for doing what is in the interests of the common good. And with that common good, you need to download the eTooth app. And once again, the government could introduce a number of ways of positive motivation. For example, when the information comes in the context of eRouška that a person has been significantly in close contact with someone infected for a long time, perhaps one way could be a free test for these people who had the erouška, and this would be quicker to find out whether or not the disease actually occurred. That's one example of positive motivation. I'm sure you can come up with a lot more. What I want to stress is again - without this point, it cannot be done. Without positive motivation, the measures themselves can't work, the restrictions. Third thing. Practical help. In addition to trust, in addition to positive motivation, it is necessary to make it clear that imaginary practical assistance is in place. I want to highlight here that it is the thinking of people who are practically thinking about this government emergency situation and asking questions of the type: if it is so serious according to the government opinion that an emergency situation is necessary, is there a plan to set up an emergency backup facility if there is an overload of health care capacities in a particular region? That's one question people have to ask themselves. Or practical help. If quarantine or illness occurs in a significant part of the staff of a particular facility - social, health - do you support the preparation of flying teams at the edges? People, workers who would replace the shift, those people? I also asked about it on the Social Committee, and perhaps in the social area, such a flying team has only three regions prepared. But that's the practical help that, if the government doesn't motivate, ask the regions, help them with it, so it won't be trusting that you, as a government, take it seriously enough until the specific consequences, for a particular home for seniors or for a particular district hospital. And just as practical help is needed to babysit the key workers' children, to arrange these things here. I'm just showing what the public is thinking, of course, when an emergency is declared. And if it were clear that these things were ready, that confidence would rise again, and in the finals, this would be a positive incentive to follow as much as possible. And the last thing I want to mention. In addition to the trust, positive motivation and practical assistance, there is a certainty of support. And here I will not forgive myself: do you really consider it normal that measures are being announced first and then negotiated afterwards, what will be the help, what will be the support? After another month, after working infirmary solutions for people working on the trade license and for contractors, your government has not solved for these hundreds of thousands of workers the possibility to draw the infirmary at all. Is this again an area where the public sees - is it so serious that the government isn't worth dragging in for businessmen at all to go to the care of a family member? And with this, I would like to summarize that the simple support for the kind of remission of social and health insurance payments has ended, but the forward-looking support for those other segments and other people who are already hit again has not started yet. And that's something that demotes people incredibly. So, if I may ask, at least in the most flagrant cases, give confidence in support. Support confidence by publishing data, such as by publishing numbers, who, from what profession is the main share among the infected, and support all positive motivations that can be. That's how it works. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u87	Thank you. The Minister is interested in answering. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u88	Shortly to the infirmary and the economic measures. I don't know what's weird about taking measures first and then creating a support system. After all, we cannot create a support system and only then declare what will happen. Because just because we're gonna announce it doesn't mean it's gonna get away with it. Something's going through the Chamber of Deputies and so on. It means it's a normal logical procedure. First it will be said what kind of restrictions will be, and then immediately direct support measures will be sought. As far as the infirmary is concerned, it is in my opinion that there is absolutely nothing to blame in this area. I mean, in the first wave, the infirmary didn't just do 60 percent, it was 80 percent for everyone, it was backwards. It was exactly 30. 6, that means until the schools were closed. And we automatically started the fact that it was done for the self-employed. We did it at the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and over that time we served approximately 200,000 applications - I mean settled - worth CZK 2.2 billion. That means those businessmen got what they never got historically. For the first time they received the infirmary, and they received the infirmary at the same rate as they received, or received at that time, the staff. And the fact that we're not declaring it now is true, because there's no surface measure. And if there's any measure of the nature that someone's going to sick leave or someone's at home for ten days, then nine days in medical care is paying him in the standard way. At the moment when there would be a situation of a real crisis, that something would be closed across the board again and those people would have to be at home with the children really in the area measure and quantity, so there is nothing easier than running a program in the Ministry of Industry, which is running within a few days. We don't need the House for that, we have information systems, we have people on it, 70 people working on it all the time, and it's a matter of very short time. But the situation didn't happen. That means, let's solve this when the situation arises, and no one has to worry about the fact that if God forbid the situation developed as in spring in the sense of more territorial closure - as it is not considered - then this will be restarted for businessmen. There's nothing complicated about it, and we've got it now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u89	Thank you. Mr Ferjenčík, then Mrs Richterová, will respond with factual comments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u90	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for your response, Minister. I would very much like the government to come to such a level that it could say at the same time "we are limiting the operation of pubs and six people at one table" and, at the same time, say "and putting forward a proposal to the House to forgive the social security." That's what I would consider fair and good communication. That's how you threw those six people at the same table, but you didn't promise them any compensation. And it's been six months since the beginning of the crisis. I don't think that's adequate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u91	Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Richterová, it is registered earlier. And then I'll give the Minister the floor so we can follow the order of the applications.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u92	I thank the Minister for his response because he is the only one defending the entire government here. In fact, the main message that I would like to respond to your words that it seems logical to you first to announce restrictions, measures, and then to respond with support. So what I would like to highlight is that even economic studies show that around half the economic downturn associated with coronavirus is due to uncertainty. A sense of insecurity in people, in companies. And that's why it's so important to suddenly have the measure and the support for it. What I'm quoting is the study of world scientists. What I'm stressing is that businessmen in individual schools already have children, individual classes are quarantined and so on. Those are the people who see today that they don't have any sickbays, that the government bailed on them again. And that's why I'm talking about it, because it increases the sense of insecurity in society, and it seems irresponsible to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u93	Thank you. And now, please, the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u94	I'm saying again that the infirmary is for nine days, and if there's a situation at school and someone's going home for ten days, the infirmary can pump it as standard, of course, those who are singles can double that. And as for the measures, it's not even possible to do that before we just announce something. That doesn't make any sense. The moment it is, we're gonna run it. But what is more important is what has fallen here in terms of the restaurants and the various measures that have fallen on them and what has actually happened. I understand that. So let's recap - restaurants and hotels, because we need to see it in context. The first thing is that restaurant and hotel operators, or let's say gastro or HORECA, it doesn't matter, got, like other companies, the opportunity to draw Antivirus, whether it was 60 percent, 80 percent, in some cases 100 percent. So they had a key cost for the employees, to a large extent, plus it was from a super-gross wage. Another request was quite objective and correct. The second largest cargo of ours, even the largest for some, is the cargo associated with the rent. So exactly for the time that was even longer, about a month, because we extended it, but it doesn't matter, closed, so they had the opportunity to draw program Rent: 50 + 30 % = 80 %. Most of them took care of it. It's going to cost the state less than three billion. Crowns. That means we're in a situation where we got 80 percent of the rent. If someone was a self-employed person and was not an eseróčko, they could draw a standard grant or a compensation bonus, which was 43,000. Kroner, plus 30 grand. He received crowns in the form of forgiven social and health. That means almost 80 grand. Crowns. To do this they could draw various other small aids. Someone put away social, somebody even, for example, with the eseróček, they didn't have to pay social, there were different variants that were already there. Now, look out. The guy who had the hotel, so he got the bed room, that means compensation for the fact that he couldn't just run the rooms and so on. Moreover, it must be seen that VAT on the gastro-intestinal sector has been reduced to various activities, whether it is the area of accommodation or food, which, of course, has been in the past or in recent times, was not just related to coronavirus and at the same time to beer. So if we add the whole thing up and underline it, it's 500 grand. gas station sales are just the tax stuff that makes some plus 25 grand. Crowns, which is also not entirely negligible. So if we add it up and underline it, this area hasn't been completely underestimated, on the contrary, I have to say that the entrepreneurs in this area are coming to us and saying what was, it's okay, it's good, thank you for that. The other thing is the one that's gonna happen now. Today, it's not about their sales collapsing rapidly. The second thing is, how the 22 hours turn out, whether it's done sooner or later, I get it, there might be some kind of blackout. Rather, it is a measure of uncertainty as it will develop in the future, which means the following weeks. Whether these people are really going to those restaurants or not. There isn't a day for us not to deal with their representatives. We dealt with them yesterday, we dealt with them last week. At this point, we're waiting to see how they're going to see it in their sales, and if it's going to go down, we're ready to do again what we did to those tour drivers, whether it was sitting or in the culture area that we were dealing with here a while ago. So the segment from the segment. But we need to see that there's this trend of the fall, not before. We don't know what it's gonna be like yet. Luckily, the summer didn't look bad at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u95	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u96	Thank you for the floor. I would just hope, and I commend the measures that were in the spring, but I was hoping that by autumn they would be ready to launch much faster. There's just going to be restrictions on weddings, if I'm not mistaken, from October 19th, which will be a big blow for a whole series of restaurants that go that way. There's going to be a limit on the number of people at the same table. There is going to be restrictions on amateur sport, which will have a great impact on a number of hospitality facilities. And those are just the things that happen to them right away, and you're waiting with the help. That's what I blame you for. The second thing is that when a school closes today because of quarantine, parents who are self-employed or contractors are not entitled to the infirmary. These people just don't have the right to an infirmary, and we think that's a problem, because the number of quarantines is incomparable with the normal situation. And that is why we appeal to you to renew this program.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u97	Thank you. Mrs Richterová will still respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u98	Thank you for the floor. I'll just be more specific. They're the people who pay the sickness insurance, the part of them who takes out the insurance, so they're not entitled to the infirm family member anyway. This hole in our system is years old, businessmen and brokers have this bad luck. And even though it turned out fully during spring, it's still not clear that this group of residents is falling into quarantine by closing schools and children today, and it doesn't seem important to the government to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u99	Thank you. At this point, I don't have any more applications, so if no one else is reporting, I'm ending the general debate. I ask the rapporteur if he is interested in the final word after the general debate. It's not like that. There have been no proposals that we should vote on at this time, so we will proceed to the debate in detail, in which I have six applications. First Mr. Výborný. I will ask all those who will propose something in a detailed debate to hand over an ideal copy of their proposal to the rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. As I have already announced, in cooperation with my colleague Martin Baxa, I propose a resolution for KDU-ČSL and ODS, which concerns education and education within this point. And it goes like this: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic 1. to form a working crisis group composed of representatives of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and representatives of the vocational education public, where all emergency measures and their implementation in the field of education in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic would be discussed; 2. that all measures in the field of education be communicated to both schools and the public in a timely, clear and understandable manner, always in agreement with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports departments; 3. to provide clear data showing that there will be a substantial reduction in the reproductive number R when schools and educational establishments are closed in whole or in part; 4. to do its utmost to maintain the presentation of, inter alia, the accelerated delivery of FFP2 class respirators in sufficient numbers to all school teachers located in regions with orange semaphore colour; 5. that, in the case of the transition of secondary and higher education institutions to distance teaching, a mechanism should be established for the fields concerned to continue the presentation of practical instruction corresponding to exceptional measures; 6. that the government, through the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, prepare clear guidelines for the specific situations of different types of schools and educational establishments." The resolution therefore has six points. It is possible and would probably be appropriate to vote on points so that, if necessary, Members can decide which of these points they will support. I just stress that, for example, the first point, which we consider to be very fundamental, was positively acknowledged here this morning by both Minister Prymula and Minister Plaga. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u101	Thank you. It is now signed up in a detailed debate by Mrs Langšádlová. But I don't see her, so I'm going to ask Mr. Černohorský, who, of course, reported to me that she's downloading. He's heading for the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u102	Thank you for the floor. I originally wanted to record the resolution on the very live culture, but the Minister has already promised to extend and modify this programme, so I will take his words and keep an eye on it, and I will not be able to record any specific resolutions here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u103	Thank you. In that case, Mr Ferjenčík is now on the table in a detailed debate, Mr Válek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u104	Thank you for the floor. I'm reading two resolutions. The first one is to Antivirus A. The resolution is relatively simple: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to quickly prepare the conditions and to take steps to restore employers' support by covering the costs of pay compensation in case of employee quarantine in relation to Coronavirus disease, as was the case with the Antivirus A subsidy programme.' I have already outlined the reasons in the general debate. The point is, the program, if I'm not mistaken and I have up-to-date information, ends at the end of October. In our view, it should be clear that the state will compensate employers if their employees cannot work because they are in quarantine, which the state has ordered them to do. [[17,00 hours]] Second order - to the infirmary for the self-employed: "Deputy Chamber of Deputies Expresses concern about the absence of solutions to the income situation of businessmen who are now facing risks in relation to the closure of individual schools due to the pandemic situation in the Czech Republic; Calls on the Government to quickly prepare the conditions and to take steps to restore aid to businessmen affected by school closure, preferably by renewing the subsidy programme approved by the Government initially by Resolutions No. 311 of 26 March 2020 and subsequently amended by Government Resolutions No 311 of 26 March 2020 552 of 18 May 2020, known as the Sick Bay for the Ministry of Justice; asks the Government to adopt an amendment to the Health Insurance Act, which will adjust the conditions for the provision of medical care in the case of the conclusion of individual schools for both employees, businessmen and persons employed for non-employment agreements.' Thank you for supporting these resolutions. Again, I justified the latter in the general debate, but the point is that many schools are already shutting down, for example, because of the quarantine of teachers or infected pupils, and the situation of parents who have to take care of them needs to be addressed. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u105	Thank you. Mr Válek is now registered. Mr. Baxa will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u106	Thank you, Mr President. I hope I'll be very brief. I am de facto representing Mrs Langšádlová, who has prepared a motion for a resolution which I also apply to and who has discussed with both the Minister of Health, who, as she has informed me, is in fact in agreement with me, and allegedly discussed this with most of the clubs here. De facto, the resolution concerns what I mentioned in my two speeches, which means, I will read it: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the government to do 15. 10. 2020 developed the concept of strategic communication to take action on COVID-19, including fact-checking and work with spreading disinformation on COVID-19.' That's all and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u107	Thank you. Mr. Baxa now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u108	Thank you for the floor. I will present here a motion for a resolution which concerns the field of culture and which, on the one hand, I have already announced in the general debate and also justified. "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to take action to support Czech culture, which finds itself in a critical situation in connection with the second wave of the Coronavirus, namely: 1. to minimise, in general, the amount of restrictive measures in culture; 2. in order to avoid any publication of specific verified data by the planned restrictive measure, which would demonstrate the potential risks of the spread of coronavirus in relation to individual cultural activities; 3. to ensure that the planned restrictive measures are of the utmost consideration in relation to the effects they may have on the pursuit of cultural activities; 4. in order to always consult the cultural actors themselves in order to ensure their real feasibility; 5. to ensure that the economic effects of restrictive measures are consistently and functionally compensated, both in relation to public cultural institutions and private companies active in culture and in relation to those active in culture as self-employed persons." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u109	Thank you. And now, Mrs Richterová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, I am presenting a proposal for a very simple resolution. All I care about is what might be quite effective in relation to erouška. The text: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the government to positively motivate the civil servants in particular, but also other citizens to use the eRousek application, for example by paying the test for contact indicated by erouška." Reason - it could work, it could be very helpful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u111	Thank you. These were all electronic applications for a detailed debate. And if no one is already reporting to the debate in detail, I am ending the debate in detail. Once again, I will call my fellow Members to vote. I'll ask if there's an interest in the final word from the rapporteur. [[It's not.]] If that is not the case, we should now move on to the vote. There's a checkout request. I'll check you all out. Please sign up again with your cards and I will ask the rapporteur to introduce us to the various proposals and take us through the vote. First of all, I think it's a procedure proposal. One moment, President Luzar with technical, procedural.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u112	Thank you for the floor. I'm just being processive. After the procedure has been approved before the vote on the resolution, I would ask for 15 minutes of breaks at the club's meeting to get to know the proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u113	If I'm getting this right, after the procedure before the vote. [[Yes.]] Okay. Thank you. In that case, please design the procedure. And please be quiet in the hall. Let's take a vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u114	Okay. Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a total of six motions for resolutions, some of which are divided into items. In my opinion, we can vote as they were put forward. From my point of view, and as I have tried to perceive individual resolutions, they do not exclude or deny each other in any way. That means we can really in that order. This means that we would vote first on the motion for a resolution in six points one by one from KDU-ČSL and ODS, which was presented by Mr Výborný. They concern the cooperation of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education. The second motion for a resolution is from the Pirates workshop, submitted by a colleague, Ferjenčík, and concerns businessmen and aid to them. The third concerns antivir a and is also from the pirát and Mr Ferjenčík. The fourth was submitted by Mr Válek and prepared by Mrs Langšádlová from the TOP 09 workshop, concerning the concept of strategic communication, fact-checking and disinformation. The penultimate is from the ODS workshop by Mr Baxa, which has five points and concerns culture. And the last one is from Mrs Richterová from the pirát, concerning erouška. It has been put forward in this way and we can also vote individually in this order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u115	Thank you. I think the procedure is understandable, so we could vote on whether we agree to the procedure. So if no one objects, I'm taking the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposed procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 11 103 Members and Members are registered, for 101, against no one. The procedure was therefore approved. Thank you to the rapporteur. And now, at the request of the KSČM club, a break, if I got it right five, ten minutes. Mr. Pávek MP. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u116	I'm sorry, but I thought it was weird that there were 103 of us registered here, which doesn't match the arranged affair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u117	When it is rounded up and the non-members are counted, we fit in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u118	I see. Well, thank you, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u119	Okay. Thank you. So in that case, I'm declaring a break until 5:20 p.m. Let's get this round. And I wish you a pleasant negotiation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u120	It's 5:20. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue today's negotiations. We interrupted the meeting at our only point at the request of the club KSČM. I assume that's agreed, he doesn't need to tell us anything. I will ask the rapporteur, therefore, to carry out individual proposals in accordance with the procedure approved, and we will vote. I'll call a colleague to the O.R. just in case. And then, please, maybe the first proposal, even though we have thinned lines.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u121	Thank you. The first vote will therefore be on this proposal: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to form a working crisis group composed of representatives of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and representatives of the vocational education public, where all extraordinary measures and their implementation in the field of education would be discussed in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u122	There's a checkout request. I'll sign you off before we vote. Please log in with your cards again, and when the number of entries is settled, I will begin the vote. Looks like that's it. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 12, 97 Members and Members are registered, for 82, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u123	"The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to communicate all measures in the field of education towards schools and the public in a timely, clear and understandable manner, always after the agreement of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u124	Thank you. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting number 13, there are 100 Members and Members, for 54, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u125	"The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to present clear data showing that there will be a substantial reduction in the reproductive number R when schools and school facilities are closed in full or in part."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u126	Thank you. I started voting number 14. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting number 14, there are 100 Members and Members, for 45, against 2. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u127	"The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to do its utmost to maintain its presentation, including the speedy delivery of FFP 2-class respirators in a sufficient number to all school teachers located in regions with orange traffic lights."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u128	Thank you. I've started voting number 15. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 15, 100 Members and Members are registered, for 44, against 1. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u129	"The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to set up a mechanism for the continuation of presentational practical instruction in the case of the transition of secondary and higher education schools to distance teaching in the fields concerned, which would correspond to exceptional measures."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u130	Thank you. I've started voting number 16. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 100 Members and Members in voting number 16, for 46, against 2. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u131	"The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to prepare clear guidelines through the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports for the specific situations of different types of schools and school facilities."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u132	Thank you. I've started voting number 17. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting number 17, there are 100 Members and Members, for 46, against 2. Nor has this proposal been adopted. We will now move on to the next block of proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u133	We move on to the block of proposals from the Pirates workshop, which Mr Ferjenčík presented in this version. "Deputy Chamber of Deputies Expresses concern about the absence of solutions to the income situation of businessmen who are now facing risks in relation to the closure of individual schools due to the pandemic situation in the Czech Republic; Calls on the Government to quickly prepare the conditions and to take steps to restore aid to businessmen affected by the closure of schools, preferably by renewing the subsidy programme approved by the Government, initially by Resolution 311 of 26 March 2020, and subsequently by the Government Resolution 552 of 18 May 2020, known as the Treatment Centre for the CFI; asks the Government to adopt an amendment to the Health Insurance Act, which will adjust the conditions for the provision of medical care in the case of the conclusion of individual schools for both employees, businessmen and persons employed for non-employment agreements.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u134	Thank you. Initiating vote number 18. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting number 18, there are 100 Members and Members, for 46, against 2. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u135	Again, from the pirát and Mr Ferjenčík: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to quickly prepare the conditions and to take steps to restore employers' support by covering the costs of pay compensation in the case of employee quarantine in relation to coronavirus, as was the case with the Antivirus A subsidy programme."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u136	Thank you. I started voting number 19. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In vote number 19, there are 100 Members and Members, for 54, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u137	Another motion for a resolution was made by Mr Válek: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government to do 15. 10. 2020 has developed a strategic communication concept for the actions taken on COVID-19, including fact-checking and work on spreading disinformation on COVID-19.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u138	Thank you. I started voting number 20. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 20, there are 100 Members and Members, for 70, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u139	Another proposal was made by Mr Baxa and has five parts. "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to take action to support the Czech culture, which finds itself in a critical situation in relation to the second wave of the Coronavirus" - and now will be followed by five votes on five measures: '1. to minimise, in general, the amount of restrictive measures in culture.' That's the first vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u140	Thank you. I started voting number 21. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting number 21, there are 100 Members and Members, for 44, against 2. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u141	"In order to prevent any specific verified data from being published by the planned restrictive measure, which would demonstrate the potential risks of the spread of coronavirus in relation to individual cultural activities."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u142	Thank you. I started voting number 22. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 22 vote includes 100 Members and Members, for 48, against 3. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u143	"To ensure that the planned restrictive measures are most considerate in relation to the effects that they may have on the pursuit of cultural activities."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u144	Thank you. I've started voting number 23. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In vote number 23, there are 100 Members and Members, for 47, against 1. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u145	"To ensure that the planned restrictive measures are always consulted with the cultural actors themselves in order to ensure their real feasibility."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u146	Thank you. I started voting number 24. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 24, there are 100 Members and Members, for 41, against 2. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u147	"To ensure that the economic effects of restrictive measures are consistently and functionally compensated, both in relation to public cultural organisations and to private companies active in culture and in relation to people who act as a CFI in culture."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u148	Thank you. I started voting number 25. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting number 25, there are 100 Members and Members, for 44, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u149	The last motion for a resolution was tabled by Mrs Richterová: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to positively motivate, in particular, civil servants, but also other citizens, to use the eRousek application, for example. payment of the test after contact indicated by erouška."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-001-001.u150	Thank you. I started voting number 26. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting number 26, there are 100 Members and Members, sorry, 99 Members and Members, for 45, against 4. The motion was not accepted. This should be all the proposals at the moment, so we have exhausted this point. Some motions for resolutions have been approved. I thank the rapporteur, thank you all, and at this point the agenda for this meeting is exhausted, this meeting is ending. And in line with how the previous meeting was interrupted yesterday, and in ten minutes, we will continue the 58th meeting. Thank you, and I'll see you in a bit.
