ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-012-029.u1	29. Government bill amending Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure (criminal Code), as amended, Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, Act No. 257/2000 Coll., on Probation and Mediation Service and on Amendment of Act No. 2/1969 Coll., on the establishment of ministries and other central bodies of the state administration of the Czech Republic, as amended, Act No. 65/1965 Coll., Labour Code, as amended and Act No. 359/1999 Coll., on Social-Legal Protection of Children (Probation and Mediation Service Act), as amended, and some other laws /German press 624/ - first reading I ask that the proposal tabled under the authority of the Government be made by the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-012-029.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a government bill amending Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure, as amended, the Criminal Code, the Probational Mediation Service and others, as Mr President said. The main objective of the proposed bill is to respond to the limits of the legislation reducing the effectiveness of the enforcement procedure. A number of systemic measures are proposed here to ensure that delays arising between the perpetrator's conviction and the execution of an alternative sentence are minimized and that the competent authorities are able to respond as quickly as possible to infringements of the conditions of execution of the sentence. This will also strengthen the willingness of the condemned to cooperate and to exercise the penalty properly and strengthen the preventive action of the punishment itself. In this respect, it is proposed in particular to move the competence to decide on a change in the terms and conditions of execution of generally beneficial work and house arrest from the courts to the Probation and Mediation Service. Furthermore, the granting of a motion to the probation officer to the court in all cases in which he is active in the course of the enforcement procedure, in particular the possibility of filing a motion responding to a breach of the conditions of execution of the sentence to the sentenced or, on the contrary, responding to their exemplary performance. The proposal is further aimed at increasing the positive motivation of the sentenced to cooperate and the proper fulfilment of his duties. To this end, the possibility of abolishing the supervised or imposed adequate measures, proportionate obligations or educational measures to the sentenced person who has demonstrated an exemplary improvement in the conditions of execution of the sentence and the conduct of his life shall be added. This instrument will not only act positively against the convicted, but will also eliminate the formal exercise of supervision and control over persons for whom this is no longer necessary. Other changes relate to the extension of the scope of the Probation and Mediation Service in order to exploit its potential in relation to children who have committed otherwise criminal acts and in relation to perpetrators whose criminal case is dealt with in the context of a shortened preparatory procedure. In part, the Institute of conditional release from the execution of the sentence is also regulated and changes are aimed in particular at reducing the administrative burden of handling the application for conditional release. Following practical knowledge, the deviation adjustment is also supplemented to contribute to their effective application in practice and to enable flexible response to changes occurring in the meantime. Last but not least, this proposal aims to reduce the administrative burden on the courts and other elements involved in ensuring the execution of alternative penalties, so that the administration is not at the expense of working with the conviction itself. I would like to support this proposal and thank you for releasing it for the second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-012-029.u3	I thank the Minister and the rapporteur for the first reading is Mrs Helena Válková. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-012-029.u4	Dear colleagues, Mr President, the important things have been said here, and I will just try to say in my own words why this amendment has been prepared at all. The point is, among other things, that the enforcement proceedings, which currently burden both the courts and the Probation and Mediation Service in the form in which it is enshrined both in the Probation and Mediation Service Act and especially in the Code of Criminal Procedure, extends the power of decision-making. Let me give you an example. We have overcrowded prisons, we need to release them, we need to carefully assess whether those who apply for conditional release are really to receive this bonus and convince us that it is already possible to release them conditionally, as it is in most European countries, but we do not have the right tools. For example, at present, those who want to be released on probation often miscalculate the time limit within which the prison sentence must be carried out. There's no need to go there, the court has to deal with it, challenge the prison. The proposed new method envisages that such an applicant must send his request to the court through a prison which, of course, will check the evidence itself and give observations to them, so the judge will get it in a form where he can decide more quickly. It stopped me at first sight when I saw it. I thought it was to the detriment of the convicted, but in its result, it should speed up the process. I won't delay because we have a number of other important standards. This is more like an amendment to speed up the execution area so that we can be a little more efficient. So far, the Czech Republic is proud - in quotation marks - of how inefficient it is in the implementation procedure. And what might have set in here, so I want to underline it, I really like the possibility of someone fulfilling the imposed probation supervision or adequate limitations and obligations, so why not shorten the period for which the supervision was imposed, for example by a year or two in exceptional cases, and thus release the capacity of the probation officer for someone else, because the probation officers still have little. So I strongly support what has been said here by the Minister. I think it is a high-quality standard, and it can be seen that even those who are most concerned have been involved, which means that probation officers, namely the probation and mediation services, have been consulted. I suggest you go to first reading. And, of course, the nature of that standard requires that the Guarantee Committee be a constitutionally-legal committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-10-ps2017-041-05-012-029.u5	Thank you and I am opening a general debate in which I have no application and no one is reporting, so I am ending the general debate. Neither the Minister nor the rapporteur is interested in the final words. There was no motion for a return or rejection, so we will consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else suggest a committee as a guarantee committee? He's not suggesting we proceed to the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 84, 148 Members registered, for 110, against no one. I note that the proposal has been directed to the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Is there any such proposal that would be made by a Member or a Member? It's not. I conclude by discussing this point with the statement that the proposal will be dealt with by the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee. I thank the Minister and thank the rapporteur. Mr Skopeček apologizes for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for working reasons from 18 o'clock to the end of the negotiations. Now we're going to look at point number
