ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 41st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. I'm going to sign you all out now, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards, or tell me who votes with the spare card. Mr Dvořák reported a replacement card number 6, Mr Špičák reported a replacement card number 18. [[Noise in the hall.]] I'll ask you once more to calm down, the meeting has begun. I would ask you to sit in your seats and pay attention to what I am speaking here. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set up a draft agenda for the 41st meeting on 20 February of this year. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on the same day. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] One more time, please calm down! [[It's ringing with a bell.]] We shall proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Petr Dolínek and Mr Jaroslav Holík. Does anyone else have a proposal regarding the meeting verifiers? It's not like that. So we're going to vote. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's for the verifier. Who's against it? Voting number 1, at the moment 124 Members are logged in, for 119, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Members of the Chamber of Deputies for the 41st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Dolínek and Petr Jaroslav Holík. I am saying that before the opening of the meeting, the following Members asked to apologize for their absence to the proceedings: Ivan Adamec within 16 hours - personal reasons, Pavel Bělobrádek - health reasons, Stanislav Blaha - personal reasons, František Elfmark - personal reasons, Jan Farský - work grounds, Petr Gazdík - personal reasons, Milan Hnilička within 16 hours - working reasons, Jaroslav Holík - foreign travel, Martin Kolovratník - medical reasons, Karel Krejza - medical reasons, Jan Lipavský - foreign travel, Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková - health reasons, Jiří Mihola until 15.30 - working reasons, Jana Mračková Vildumetzová - health reasons, Vojtěch Munzar - health reasons, Patrik Nacher from 17 hours - family reasons, Ivana Nevludová - health reasons, Vojtěch Pikal - health reasons, Žáček Pustějovskýějovský - health reasons, Roman Sklenák - health reasons, personal reasons, Karla Šlechtová road abroad - medical Vrána, Petr Šleštová. Miroslav Toman apologizes from the members of the government for work reasons. A further apology was received from the Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar, who also apologizes for the whole day for urgent reasons of work. There. It's Tuesday, March 3, and our colleague David Štolpa is celebrating his birthday today. So, happy birthday. [[Let's hear it.]] And now we will proceed to the appointment of the 41st meeting, whose proposal is made on the invitation. First of all, let me introduce you to the proposals on which today's grémium agreed. We propose to include in the draft programme in the report block, proposals and another new item "Provision of the Ministry of Health in the context of the spread of coronavirus" and discuss it as the first item today, that is, on Tuesday, 3 March; include in the draft agenda in the report block, proposals and other new item "Proposition for the establishment of a Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for Hybrid Threats" and discuss it on Thursday, 12 March as the first item after written consultations; paragraph 196, Parliament's press 444 - The Ombudsman's summary report on the Ombudsman's activities for 2018 - to place firmly on Thursday, 5 March as the first item following written intercessions; points 252 - Information of the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for the Environment on the solution of bark sludge and 256 - the report by the Minister of Agriculture on the management of the forestry crisis in relation to the barking agent to be included firmly on Thursday, 5 March following written interventions after a fixed point of paragraph 196, if it is to be included; in addition, point 5, House press 398/5 - The draft law amending certain laws in the field of business regulation on the financial market, returned to the Senate, to place firmly on Tuesday, 10 March as the first point; points 224, House Press 510 - Financial Stability Report 2018/2019, 225, House Press 537 - Report on Financial Market Supervision in 2018, paragraph 226, House Press 564 - CNB Inflation Report - July 2019, to include firmly on Tuesday, 10 March following a fixed point 5 if it is included; points from the block of the contract second reading 162 to 166 - House prints 294, 341, 348, 386 and 356 to include firmly on Thursday 12 March following written interpelations after a fixed point in the establishment of a permanent committee on hybrid threats if this is included; Point 13, House print 453 - Amendment to the Criminal Code, second reading, to place firmly on Wednesday 25 March as the first point at 14.30 hours; Point 23, House Press 669 - Proposal for a law on the handling of arms in some cases affecting the internal order or security of the Czech Republic, first reading, before paragraph 22, House printing 92, in the block the laws of the first reading. Furthermore, the Grémium proposes to eliminate paragraph 245, House press 751 - Proposal for the action of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the framework of anti-terrorism in Mali, Niger and Chad; paragraphs 18 and 188, House press 290 - Amendment to the Act on Assistance in Material Need, Second and Third Reading; Point 175, House press 111 - draft constitutional law on a national referendum, third reading; paragraphs 17 and 187, Parliament's press 126 - a bill on backed-up maintenance, second and third reading. I repeat, that was an elimination. That's all from my side at the moment. With the replacement card number 24, Mrs Valachová votes. So we'll be on the agenda for the meeting. I will ask Members of Parliament who are interested in expressing their views on the proposal for a programme. At this point, there are several priority rights. President Bartoš was the first to report before the beginning of the meeting. Then the President of Rakušan signed up here in writing. That's the first two priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, or actually this afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak briefly on the agenda for the meeting, with a request for a new point on the EU's multiannual financial framework. Prime Minister Babiš negotiates for the Czech Republic in the European Council the form of the next multiannual financial framework. The fact is that neither the public nor the Chamber of Deputies -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u3	I'll stop you for a moment. Quiet in the hall, please! Ladies and gentlemen, if you have anything to do with this, please go to the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u4	However, neither the public nor the Chamber of Deputies know what proposals the Prime Minister is going to negotiate with. He has long criticized the multi-annual financial framework in general. In particular, the criticism concerns cohesion funds, but we and the public have not yet heard a single constructive proposal in this negotiation, which the Prime Minister would like to present or intend to submit. The last European Council summit has ended in failure, and there will be another extraordinary summit at which this European budget will be discussed. We believe that the Prime Minister should bring some concrete constructive proposals to the negotiations with his 26 counterparts and that mere criticism will certainly not lead to any compromise. So if the Prime Minister presents himself as a capable negotiator, let him be the one to help the European Union find this agreement. But at this point, we doubt it... I would like to see Mr President. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall, the Members are having a loud laugh, the President is ringing.]] Thank you. We were trying to get some concrete proposals from the Prime Minister. After all, Mr Kopřiva for the Pirates had already asked the Prime Minister about his priorities on 13 February in the context of the intercession, but the Prime Minister lacked them. He therefore repeatedly questioned the Committee on European Affairs, and the Prime Minister did not make any proposals there either. He even refused to hand over his material to Members, which he had issued as a list of requirements. We are currently in a situation where the European Union's budget is negotiated for the next six years, and neither Members nor Citizens know what the Prime Minister is negotiating specifically. This is all in the shadow of suspicion of a conflict of interests, which is based on European audits, when it is not really clear, and I also rely on the last statement by the Prime Minister, who also makes it possible that we do not know whether the Prime Minister is defending the interests of the Czech Republic as a whole or of selected companies or of his firms in the holding, because there is also a financial framework for six years in the field of agriculture and his companies are doing business in this area. For the pirát, we think it is necessary to accentuate certain areas in the European budget, whether it is the transformation of the economy or science, research, innovation, or the response to climate change. And it is not entirely important whether specific investigators who ask for the money will then ask for it with the Czech institutions or with the central European ones. But what is important is the way in which all this will be negotiated and whether the people for whom the funds are intended will actually reach the priorities for the money and the budget will be sufficient. What is lacking in this negotiation overall, and this is also based on the latest reactions of the representatives of the European Union who were in the Czech Republic last week, is completely lacking some effective way to prosecute obvious crimes in the handling of European money, their possible misuse. The Czech Republic will become a so-called net payer in the future, so it is in everyone's interest that our taxpayers' money be used economically during this period. We think that no matter how much money goes to cohesion and how much will be in the central programmes, so fraud relating to European money should already fully fall within the competence of the European Prosecutor in the future. I will just repeat - given that at the moment neither the public nor the Chamber of Deputies is clear about the priorities with which Prime Minister Babiš enters into negotiations on the European budget, I would like to place a point at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which is called the Information of the Prime Minister on the position of the Czech Republic in the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework. I would also like to propose the inclusion of this point firmly on Friday 6. 3. as the first item in the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you once more to calm down in the hall. The President must have been screaming at you at the end. It's surprising for some of you, but the meeting has really begun. The President of the Rakušan will be next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u6	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, absent Prime Minister Babiš. In today's context, I left out the word "weighted" completely intentionally. I'm sorry you're not here, and you're not sitting behind my back, because my words with priority rights will only be directed at you. I call on you to apologize to the Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, Mrs Věra Kovářová. Some of you may not be watching public media, but those who have been watching them for 168 hours have heard something outrageous. Prime Minister Babiš, in front of the cameras, called his colleague, a Member of the Mayor's Club and an independent beast. Yes, the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic did. What did Věra Kovářová ask you to do, Prime Minister? She didn't ask you to do anything. Věra Kovářová brought you a list. List of missing schools and kindergartens throughout the Czech Republic. She did a job for you that your minister should have done long ago, or you yourself, or your team. You didn't do it - and how did you react to it? In your usual way - vulgarity and vulgarity. Věra Kovářová only wanted to offer cities and municipalities within the Czech Republic perspective. A perspective for young families to live there so that schools and kindergartens can be available. But you, Prime Minister, have only two positions, two positions of your behavior. You're either whining and crying, complaining that the whole world is hurting you. Everyone in this room is hurting you. You, Prime Minister of this country, you, one of the richest Čech. You're actually the victim of a conspiracy against you. Or maybe you have a second location. And the second position is even worse. You yell at people, you yell at them, you humiliate them, you curse them, you use dirty words. It's been repeated that you just told Mrs Kovářová that she was using awkward crap and all that. But you've never come as far as you are now. This isn't about politics, this isn't about your conflict of interest, this isn't about you using civil servants for your private business. No. This is about ordinary human decency. The point is, are you a guy, a guy who can stand up here at the speaker's desk, or go to Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová and tell her ordinary human and male "I'm sorry, I'm overreacting"? You told us several times that you wanted to run the state as a company. What does it mean to run the state as a company? Do you understand that everyone in this state is your subordinates? You can yell at each one of them, you can curse each one of them, and you can humiliate each one of them? You know, I believe there are decent people among your constituents. Even among the members of the ANO movement, there are decent people. And I hope that they feel that you have simply overreacted, that this is simply not done and that you are far beyond the edge of decent behavior that is not permitted not only in the Chamber of Deputies and between politicians, but that is not acceptable throughout our society. Mr. Babiš, you are not the future of the Czech Republic. You're the past. You are rudeness, rudeness, conjunctivitis, abuse of your position. I think people in the Czech Republic will soon understand. And now, as a man, you can do one thing - come to Věra Kovářová, Mr. Babiš, and say to her, "I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. The President of Jurečka is registered as the next priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u8	Hello, Mr President, members, members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. I will follow up on my previous speaker here and ask the Prime Minister here also to apologize, because last week he accused Members who are members of the European Parliament and who are also members of the Supervisory Committee of being traitors. These Members have properly exercised their mandate here and what is the responsibility of the committee in question, where they are members. Like our members of the Supervisory Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, they also have certain responsibilities. Talking about these MPs, if they arrive on a mission officially announced, announced, to the Czech Republic, that they are traitors, is really grossly behind the edge. If any of the politicians, and I think that in general people, has a clear conscience, so doesn't have a problem with when someone has a certain suspicion, say, say, come, see, ask, I'll give you the maximum information, hand over the evidence, and I'll just wait for it to happen in peace, subconsciously smile, I'm not nervous about it, and I have no feeling of blaming someone who, at first sight and the media, is uncomfortable for me, he asks. I experienced a similar situation in 2017, when a criminal report was filed on me the week before the elections. It was on the front page of some journals, and it's not a pleasant thing. I understand these things aren't pleasant, but I've never blamed anyone. I've always said: I'm ready to cooperate, if it comes to that, with the police, I'm prepared to ask the House to turn me in, I have no problem with these things at all. I think it is pointless to de-honest these Members in this way. Prime Minister, I'd like you to say the words you said last week, which you've already moderated on frequency 1 last week, and you said you might have overreacted, and in a similar way, if you'd just, quite normally, manlylylyly, say it to these Members and Members, "I'm sorry, I'm out of my mind," it's human, it can happen. Thank you so much for this, if you fill it up. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] And now for the agenda for this meeting. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to ask you to include next week's next week's meeting of the Senate Returns as the first item that has the title of the Government's measures to address the impending migration crisis. It is a response to what is happening in recent days at the border, particularly between Greece and Turkey, but other countries, the Member States of the European Union, are under greater pressure from migration, and it is important that these matters be discussed here. To know, as the Chamber of Deputies, the Government's approach to this very important issue, because in the last two years, let's say, the migration pressure we faced in 2016-2017 has cooled down, and now it turns out that the pressure is growing again, that the Turkish President's approach is changing. And I would very much like that, and we, as KDU-ČSL, call on the government to offer our members of the European Union, who defend the external border, full support and synergies within material and technical equipment, that is, to offer the capacities that the police or the army can use in defending the external borders of the European Union. I feel that the safety of my colleague and colleague is of no concern, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u9	I think we're all interested. But some people are constantly interrupting. I'll ask everyone present for peace! If possible, take your seats and follow the ongoing negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u10	Thank you. I would like this item to be included so that we can know the government's position on what concrete aid the government is prepared to offer, what the government is specifically willing to do at European level, because this is at the European Council's meeting, at the premieres' meeting. It has also often been mentioned and criticised by the Prime Minister of Frontex, which is to serve to strengthen and secure the external border, and now it is a bit of a collision with what the Prime Minister has said in recent weeks when he says: I do not want such a security budget, I want to cut it by half. This is precisely the budget to be used to better protect our external borders, so that we can also protect the citizens of the Czech Republic. And, of course, the second point is very important when I would like this second area to be discussed at this point, and this is also helping those people who are in those camps today, who are in that territory of no one between the Turkish and Greek borders, so that we, like the Czech Republic and other states, can look for effective help to help these people in this situation, improve the situation in the camps, so that, if necessary, we can also make our return policy more effective, and some of them can return to some parts of their homes so that they can return. So please support this point and please include next week, Tuesday, as the first item after the Senate's retreat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. Just technically. Next week, we have one return from the Gremia, financial markets, and then three points for the Governor of the CNB. Do you want us to vote before the reports? For the three messages. Thank you. So we've made our point. The proposal is: three points from the Governor of the Czech National Bank. The other priority right that I just signed up for is Vice-President Okamura. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SPD, I would like to propose an extraordinary item on the agenda of this House meeting called Acute Assistance to Greece in dealing with the invasion of illegal migrants. In the past week, the Turkish Government ceased to comply with the 2016 agreement with the European Union in which it promised to help stop the migration wave into the European Union in exchange for financial assistance. Turkey is currently literally sending tens of thousands of illegal Islamic migrants from its territory to the European Union, and since the last weekend, they are taking place on the Greek-Turkish border between aggressive migrants and the Greek police. The migrants are shouting Islamic Allah agbar, bůh is great, attacking rocks and all sorts of things that can be set on fire and thrown at Greek policemen. At the same time, as can be seen from photographs, these - in quotation marks - poor refugees have expensive mobile phones in their hands. In this context, the Greek Government called on the governments of the European Union to help Greece quickly to protect borders, which are also the external borders of the EU. At the Greek border, tens of thousands of migrants have gathered, and in Turkey, around four million are ready to go to Europe. Following this request from the Greek Government, we have already publicly called on the Government of Andrej Babiš to offer help to Greece immediately by sending our soldiers or police officers, and I am glad that even after yesterday's call, I have just heard the Minister of Interior Hamáček that there is a reaction from the government. At the same time, Greece has announced that it will increase the maximum level of border surveillance and will not accept asylum applications from migrants who are legally (?) They cross the Greek border. If possible, they will also immediately return these migrants to the countries of origin, which will be very complicated and impossible, we all know. That is why it is necessary, with all its strength, to defend the border against the entry of illegal migrants into Europe. Greece must not remain alone in this crisis, which is a genuinely open attack on the European Union's borders. Our government should not only offer maximum assistance, including military and police, but our representatives in Brussels should finally show that they can also do useful work, and we should immediately initiate European Union assistance, and we should initiate NATO leadership negotiations on issues. It is not normal for a member of the North Atlantic Alliance, Turkey, not to respect the borders of its partner and allies in the Alliance, and to quite openly disturb its borders and threaten the security of all the allies by driving migrants out into the territory of the European Union. This House should be the first to face this problem. Therefore, on behalf of the SPD, I propose that we adopt this resolution, if you agree to this point: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to provide Greece with assistance to cope with the current crisis caused by Turkey, and we call on the Government and its representatives in the EU and NATO institutions to initiate negotiations to halt the influx of migrants from Turkey." And I propose that this point be the first item in today's House of Deputies meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. I'm sorry. I've registered a proposal for a new point. I have no longer registered a specific fixed classification if it has been proposed. Tonight's first point. On the agenda of the meeting first with priority rights, Minister Hamáček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, allow me to respond to the speech by the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies on Greece. I want to assure you all that the Czech Government has responded to Greece's request for help. We are ready to provide immediate assistance in two planes. Greece is asking for financial assistance, so we are able to immediately release a million euros from the Ministry of the Interior, which can then be transferred To the Greeks, so they can use the money to buy material, as they ask. At the same time, we are ready to release the material from the supplies of the Fire Rescue Corps, as part of the request is also a request for humanitarian aid. So, de facto, anything that's in the Fire Department's warehouse and whatever Greece needs, we're able to transport to Greece. There has not yet been a request for police assistance from the Greek side, which means that if we should send our police officers to Greece, we can only do so if the Greek side asks. I am convinced that the Greek party is handling the situation for the deployment of the police and the military, and so far it has not agreed to invite foreign police contingents to its territory. If there is a request for police assistance, we have a contingent ready to travel to Greece. However, we have done so in the past in some other Balkan countries, but the basic prerequisite is the application of the beneficiary country and it has not yet fallen. What I consider to be a complete request outside of reality is the deployment of the army. I would like to inform the Vice-President that the deployment of the armed forces of the Czech Army is governed by the Constitution of the Czech Republic, and I, with all due respect and with all my efforts to find a formulation in the Constitution that would allow the deployment of the armed forces of the Czech Army in the Greek territory, so I did not find the wording there. Of course, we can talk about whether this is a topic for the European Union. Yes, I am leaving tomorrow afternoon for the extraordinary Council of Interior Ministers to Brussels, where the only point is the situation at the Greek-Turkish border, and we will talk about coordinated assistance from Europe to Greece in the current situation. It's definitely a topic at the North Atlantic Council meeting. However, I want to make it clear that I do not see at this stage how the Czech Republic could deploy the armed forces of the Czech Republic on the Greek-Turkish border. If my colleague Okamura has an idea that's constitutionally conformal, I'm with him, but I haven't found anything like that yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. Let me read you a few apologies. Madam Minister of Justice Marie Benešová apologizes from 16.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Apologies to Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová from 14:00 to 16:00 for work reasons. President Bartošek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the context of what the Minister of the Interior has said, I would like to ask for the support of the point proposed by the KDU-ČSL, although I understand the SPD requirement, because our point is much wider, because we want to address this not only at the level of the Czech Republic, but also at the level of what we can negotiate within the European Union, because the multiannual financial framework is currently being addressed and we want this to be addressed in a broader context following the European budget, when our Prime Minister wants to cut the budget for protecting public borders, and we believe that this is the wrong way and KDU-ČSL rejects this procedure. We also want both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of the Interior to take part in this discussion in a broader context. I firmly believe that we will gain the support of this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u17	Thank you. If no one else with priority rights applies, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík is the first to sign up for the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u18	[[He's coming in wearing a striped prison jacket.]] Dear colleagues, absent Prime Minister, I have dressed solemnly today to protest the Prime Minister's absolutely outrageous remarks to the address of the Czech MEPs, who have only done their best to ensure that the money of our citizens sent to the European Union - from the European Union often in greater volume back to this country - is not stolen or ended in subsidies for the Prime Minister's companies' toast bread. And for wanting to control that European money is not being stolen here, the Prime Minister called it a traitor. That's a total outrage, and I'm protesting against that here. Anyway, I think the Prime Minister is doing things like this to cover up the results of his real work, and that's why I'm here with a new point. I propose that we discuss that the results of the Czech Republic's management in the first two months of this year are the worst since the Czech Republic was founded. The worst result of the state's management since 1993: 27 billion minus February. So I propose that as item number one, we place the result of the state's management for the first two months of this year. Thank you for your support for this proposal and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u19	I understand that you are proposing the inclusion of a new item The result of the Czech state's management in the first two months and the first point of today's negotiations? [[Yes.]] Well, we got it right, thank you. Mr. František Kopřiva will be next on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u20	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues, esteemed members of the government. I would like to propose the inclusion of points 56 and 57, which are merged, these are Parliamentary prints 201 and 211, and I will give you a choice. I suggest you include them either this Friday, 6. 3:00 p.m., 2:00 p.m. or next Friday, 13 p.m. 3:00 p.m., 2:00 p.m. I propose this for this non-standard time so that we do not block the standard block of third readings on Friday, because it is true that the debate on these points has been quite extensive and arguments have often been repeated so that we do not abstain from other laws. I will just give a few reasons why I think it is appropriate for the Chamber of Deputies to discuss these proposals. It has been 630 days since the House Press 201 was submitted, and the other press is two days less. It was two times. For the first time, 14. 11. 2018 and then almost a year ago, 26. 3. 2019 at the 27th meeting. Now we have a 41st meeting, if I'm not mistaken, so it hasn't really been discussed for almost a year. And we are in an absurd situation when the proposal, House Press 201, is the law of marriage for the same sex couples, so it is supported by 67 percent of Čech and Češka according to the latest survey of Media from January this year, but the Chamber of Deputies is still silent and did not vote on this proposal. I would just like to remind myself that 46 Members of the six clubs signed the proposal and the counter-proposal, the constitutional change, 37 Members and Members of the six clubs signed the proposal as well. So together, it's 83 Members. I would therefore be surprised if the proposal failed, because I think we do not want to support the stereotype that politicians are slacking off, and I think that Parliament should in some way decide on this issue, by voting. Therefore, I would like to appeal to everyone to settle these proposals at first reading and either send them on or reject them, or return them to a recast. Anyway, let's have a vote on them. The last fact to illustrate that we're not really the fastest. Just for this term, that means over two years, so six other states around the world have already accepted marriage for everyone. I don't think there's anything to wait for, and I hope that all the submitters will support the inclusion of either one or the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u21	Thank you. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will be next on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u22	Hello, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, Madam Secretary, Colleagues, I am basically coming up with a proposal that has already been made several times on the part of those who have preferential rights, as well as in the discussion that has just taken place, and it is the inclusion of a new point concerning information - and now it would be the Information of the Ministry of the Interior on sending Czech police officers to help their Syrian colleagues. The Minister of the Interior, who has just been absent again, has spoken briefly, but it must be said that apart from the fact that he is, as he has said, ready to provide one million euros or some material assistance from the Fire Rescue Corps, that is only one part. We are talking about the possibility of sending a contingent of police officers, and here I fully agree with him, with what he said in the context of reservations about the possibility of sending the Army of the Czech Republic, but sending police officers to help their Greek colleagues. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I would just like to mention here that the problem is very short, but it is very intense. 1. 3. - first day: Greece calls for rapid border assistance from the European Union; it will return migrants. That's the headline from the news. . The next day, that means yesterday, news.cz: The Greeks will not defend the EU's borders, warns Frontex. We know what Frontex is - the international border police, if we basically cut it short. And today's headline to the Hospodářské noviny says: Greece has stopped 24,000 migrants at European borders. Mr. Erdogan, Mr. President, says that he has a few more millions prepared there, which he is willing and ready to send, and it already shows which he is bringing to the border with Greece. The Minister believes that the Greek police or the Greek army will handle the matter themselves. I believe that if we are part of the European Union and we have some international commitments and Schengen, or indeed. The Greek-Turkish border is the external border of the European Union, so the Czech Republic should not renounce any cooperation in protecting this external border, because in the words of the President, when he spoke quite often about our soldiers in Afghanistan, he always said: in Afghanistan there is a fight against terrorism and there is a fight for the freedom of the Czech Republic. The United States has entered into a peace agreement with the Taliban terrorist group and, in effect, the war may be over. Within 14 months, our soldiers are to withdraw. But I dare to paraphrase the President's words: freedom or security of the citizens of the Czech Republic is not fought in Afghanistan. He's fighting for her right now on the Greek-Turkish border. And we should send out the files we can, which means the Police of the Czech Republic. And I would like to hear from the Home Secretary, though he says that the Greek party has not yet requested, so I would like to hear from him that yes, we are ready to send a contingent, then how big, that means how many police officers would be willing to participate in this, and, of course, in what time horizon, because if it should be next week or in 14 days, it might be too late. And my esteemed colleagues, allow me to read one e-mail, one e-mail, or virtually. a report that I have received from one - one - only one - from one police officer who has been serving, because I am in contact with them, who addressed the government of the Czech Republic. I'll take the liberty of literally reading. "Dear Government of the Czech Republic, Hungary, Macedonia, Croatia and now Greece are fighting at their borders with the influx of refugees, from my perspective Islamic soldiers who are trying to get from Turkey to Europe. Frontex is not enough to respond to these mass waves, and Europe has a duty to protect its people. I appeal to you, the Government of the Czech Republic, to discuss assistance to the Greek nation as soon as possible, including the Czech population. Greece is the gateway to Europe, and it is our duty to protect European values already in the bud. I believe that, as I do here, I offer you help, so many Czech police officers, members of the Army of the Czech Republic will offer their assistance to Greece to protect borders. It is up to you, the Government of the Czech Republic, to negotiate our immediate posting, and I believe that our assistance will be welcomed in Greece. It will also signal that Europe can bring together and protect one another against attacks on sovereign state borders. Who else should respond to suggestions and offers from their citizens than the democratically elected government of the Czech Republic? Signature - Ensign of the Police of the Czech Republic," whose name I will not say in agreement. It is an appeal received by the government of the Czech Republic to respond. I am glad that colleagues from other political parties have a similar opinion and that we will find a consensus when we will want information from the Czech Government, in this case only information from the Minister of the Interior who can send police officers from the Czech Republic will suffice. Therefore, I would like to include this new point: Government information on sending Czech police officers to help their Greek colleagues. And this point, in order to discuss it effectively without unnecessary media visibility, I would like to propose for today at 18.30, which means 30 minutes before the proper termination of today's day. If we do not approve, I believe that with colleagues who have submitted a similar proposal and will make a similar proposal - my colleague Jana Černochová smiles, I suppose we will look for a common term so that we can get the information from the Ministry of the Interior and meet some of our obligations. Thank you. And thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u23	Thank you. One apology. Mr Petr Venhoda apologizes from today's meeting between 5:30 and 19:00 for work reasons. Mrs Jana Černochová will be next on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I don't understand how I could have found myself in that order when I handed over the application for the program on your desk and I was the only one there. I understand that those who had priority rights were so logically ahead of me, but there were a number of colleagues who didn't have priority rights, and they were in front of me. It's just an introduction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to include a new item on the agenda for this meeting entitled Information of the Government on the situation at the border of Greece and Turkey, for tomorrow as the first item in the morning meeting or as the first item in the afternoon meeting. We are very concerned about the situation at the external border of the Schengen area, where enormous pressure is being put on Greece in connection with the arrival of other waves of migrants, which Turkey has had in recent days, contrary to the agreement of the European Union, transported and accompanied to the Greek border. The Civil Democratic Party has loudly warned against concluding this potentially blackmail agreement with Erdogan, with whom our Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is so fond of photography. Unfortunately, today we are already witnessing the fulfillment of the black scenario, where the President of Turkey brazenly violates this agreement. Frontex is completely incompetent and the whole of the European Union is threatened by another massive migration wave. So it came to our words when we called for the end of the debate on meaningless quotas and instead devoted energy to preventive measures to protect the external borders of Schengen and to consistent compliance with Dublin agreements. We should know the government's attitude and its answers to the questions of what will happen next, what will be the next steps. You know, more than five years have passed since the migration crisis broke out, and in the area of protection, the external protection of the Schengen border hasn't really changed much. We would therefore like to know what the government has done to make a difference, what concrete steps it has taken. And those steps should be systemic. Indeed, in a situation where there is such a huge base for police officers in the Czech Republic, where only in Prague it is about a thousand policemen that we lack, who are lacking in direct service, so to send other and other police officers to protect borders I do not consider a system solution. It is a solution which can, of course, be an asset of the Czech Republic, and let it be, but it is a short-term solution. Here, we simply need to find a solution that will be systemic and that will be directed towards the top politicians of the European Union and to officials who are dealing with Frontex. [[14.50 hours]] Offer of humanitarian aid, financial assistance, possible transmission of police officers - nothing against it. But here, indeed, the Minister of the Interior, and not only him, but also the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister, should appeal to all policies within the European Union to finally find a system solution, and so that this solution does not just lie in the fact that, after some time, the barrier at those borders will open up and then some of the top politicians will say: We must be solidarity, let us share it! I would not look forward to this, so I would like to know the position of the Government of the Czech Republic on how this issue will really be, which is serious, how it will be dealt with at the European Union meeting in the foreseeable future. Minister Hamáček said he has a meeting tomorrow. I think it should be in his interest to be equipped with some resolution from the Chamber of Deputies. Because it is we who also have the confidence of people to deal with a situation that can really be fatal for Europe. So we can say for the civil democrats that we will support the proposals of colleagues across the spectrum who want to talk about this matter and want to know the positions of the Czech political representation. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u25	Thank you, Madame. Just a technical reminder - I seem to know how it happened, and you know specifically which colleagues were when you first applied. Those who came after you put theirs on yours. I therefore recommend that you contact the relevant members of the House who number the applications and then hand them over to me correctly. The President - not only I - who will come here, has no idea how individual applications have been filed, that is no longer possible. So if it were through and over at the table, there would be a number. Well, that's for all of you next time. Mr Jan Bauer will be next on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u26	Good afternoon, Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask you, on behalf of the Citizen's Democratic Party and KDU-ČSL MEP, to include an extraordinary item entitled Jana Maláčová, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, on the current status of IT contracts at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and on the coordination of IT contracts at other government departments. I do not want and will not take political advantage of the recent police intervention at the Ministry against Deputy MPSV and another ministry official, because the investigation is part of the authority assigned to this. However, I believe that the situation with IT systems at the MPSV is so serious that the general public should also receive up-to-date information and not just members of the Committee on Social Policy who recently requested them at the Ministry's meeting. I would remind you that, according to the January resolution of the Committee on Social Policy, the Ministry of Members is to introduce, among other things. With the timetables for completing the implementation of the Single Information System of Labour and Social Affairs, the Minister is also to inform Members of the crisis scenario of maintaining the operation of current information systems for the payment of benefits in the event that the option right expires on the basis of the already extended contract with OKsystem and new information systems will not be deployed until 31. 12. 2020. Colleagues and colleagues, I am aware that the deadlines given to Members of the Committee on Social Policy have not yet expired, but nevertheless I think that in the light of the events of the last days, the public deserves to hear at least the basic and general information about the situation of IT contracts in the resort. I certainly think that the Minister should be given the opportunity to reassure the public that the payment of benefits from next year will be ensured. In a pitiful state, however, not only are the contracts at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but also at other departments and the responsibility for this situation is borne by the entire government and personally Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. At the beginning of this election period, Andrej Babiš promised, within the framework of the Digital Czech Central IT Procurement Management Strategy, promised coordination, promised expertise, and even established an IT Agent who personally answers to him. In my opinion, however, the government has failed in fulfilling promises and billions continue to fly in overpriced IT orders, the state has no control over them, and even the key projects fail to work in a way that works well and effectively for the benefit of citizens. I believe that a point on the coordination of state procurement in the field of IT technology can be an opportunity for the Prime Minister, Mrs Labor and Social Affairs, to introduce us to how the government's programming declarations in this area are being implemented and, if they fail in some areas, why and what the government as a whole will do about it. Thank you. Just for you, Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, I only propose the inclusion of this point without a solid inclusion. If this point is included, we will still agree on which day we would place this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u27	Thank you. So just adding a new point. And with priority rights, Minister Maláčová wants to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say very briefly that I very much support the inclusion of this extraordinary point, because the state of IT, as you know, is a critical infrastructure of the state, the problems are long-term, they have been running at least since 2010. And I think that this honourable Chamber of Deputies should be very carefully informed about the state of IT on the MPSV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u29	Thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová will be next on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to approve the inclusion of a new point, which bears the name Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the security of sufficient pre-school and school education capacities, including their financing. And further, so that we can place this point firmly on Thursday 5. 3. as a third point after written interpelations. What does this proposal involve? As you all know, we have been dealing with insufficient basic and kindergarten capacity in the last more than ten years. According to the latest information, for example, in the Central Bohemia Region, which he had studied, there are thousands of places missing in secondary Bohemia in kindergarten schools and about 8,000 places in primary schools. However, this problem is not only a problem of the Central Bohemia Region but also of the regions of others. This is evidenced by a list of insufficient capacities from all the regions that we have handed over to the Prime Minister. We approached about 3,000 municipalities and cities and the need in these regions climbed up to almost 9 billion crowns, which means it is not only needed this year, but also in the following years. Most of these are large investments in the order of tens to hundreds of millions of crowns and it is clear that municipalities themselves cannot solve this problem and this lack of capacity alone. Unfortunately, existing grant titles at the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education overlook the needs of municipalities over 3,000 inhabitants, but also smaller municipalities that need to make investments higher than CZK 20 million. Moreover, the allocation that the government is promoting is insufficient. [[15.00 hours]] Unfortunately, our amendments, which aimed to strengthen these subsidy titles, then rejected the current coalition. As a result, self-government, but also established by them in kindergartens and primary schools, children and pupils who arrive at them, are also trapped by their parents. Escape from this trap is possible and leads to a simple way of increasing the allocation of several grant titles, namely two grant titles at the Ministry of Finance and one grant title at the Ministry of Education. Unfortunately, this year the allocation in these three grant titles amounts to only CZK 100 million. It is clear that the demand, which is at least CZK 9 billion, cannot be met from year to year at the current rate, which is still at risk of slowing down as a result of relentless decisions, and we will never build the necessary capacity in this way. I think we all want to live in a country where children have the opportunity to be educated in available, quality and large enough and equipped schools. It is precisely because of this critical situation, the critical lack of capacity of kindergartens and primary schools in certain regions, that we should be given information from our government whether it wants to address this situation and how it wants to achieve that primary and primary schools should be built in time. That is why I am asking you to support the inclusion of my point that I propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u31	Thank you, Madame. Just to clarify, the five of us. 3. where you aim, we have the Ombudsman's agreement, and the points on bark are two, so your point would be fourth. Do you agree that we would vote on the crust? We will be voting on a solid classification as the fourth point 5. 3. after written interpelations. Mr Václav Klaus apologizes today from 16.30 pm until the end for work and personal reasons, and at the same time came to him on the agenda. Mr. Václav Klaus has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u32	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I have a motion for a agenda called Crisis is an opportunity. When the debate over the program is over, we will be witnessing many hours of talk about coronavirus on the part of our government officials and MPs, doctors and non-doctors who will not have a great sense. I believe that, of course, Minister Vojtěch, Hamáček and spol. There is such a society of total dilettants in this matter, but we do not have another government, so in the face of the threat of an epidemic, we must overcome it together and refrain from hysterical criticism, screaming and raising panic. I firmly believe, as the government says, that we have enough protective equipment for doctors, hospital staff, but also for police and retail workers, because even with more patients, the state should try to maintain the basic functioning. As I have heard from the practitioners, this is not the case, but I hope it will change. But I'm going to get to the point, because otherwise - and the House is probably doing it so far - we have to work the same way we have done so far. And here, in the face of this crisis, you can see some of the program points that we defend in full nudity. For example, we want food self-sufficiency, i.e. the balance between domestic production and food consumption, which makes sense always, in general, but at present, in the current crisis we see it in full nudity. When the epidemic is over, we want us to be more resilient next time. We want a strong army capable of defending the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic and in critical situations it is capable of being deployed. We don't have that, because half our soldiers are guarding a base in Bagram, and the army is unable to do something like that, and we're supposed to try for the future. So we see it clearly again. We want strong domestic industry, not green devastation, because the case of Prague with its dominant dependence on the tourist market, we will now see it in full nudity, the declines by 90% and more. So let us reject the Kyoto Protocols and European policy of industrial devastation. We want the return of common sense, for example, to give nurses four years of education, not the obligation to study in college, because we would just have more of them now, and it would be useful. Let's cut back on GDPR spending, gender audits, political nonprofits and other diseases that we can afford when a country lives in luxury and doesn't know what to do with luxury. Now is the opportunity, when the crisis strikes, to act rationally. Let us also reject the EU's arms directive because it is in full nakedness to see how the European Union does not function completely in the face of this threat. It leaves everything on national governments that are desperately collapsing and disorganizing here, doing absolutely nothing, and citizens eventually have to rely on themselves, which they feel good about. And so on and so forth, I don't want to write the whole program here, but I want us to call the negotiations next Tuesday as the first point after the solid points that will be called the Crisis is an opportunity, to talk about the role of the army and its state in the future, to talk about agricultural self-sufficiency, or balance between production and consumption of food, and about the other things that I have mentioned here, and the government has indicated what position it will defend. I think that's the House's job, not here for seven hours hysterical about where they have a drape, where they don't have a drape. Because, of course, the government can't handle it, but if the situation escalates somehow, it can't even do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u33	Thank you. Mr Lukáš Kolářík is also on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to join my colleague Mr Bauer's proposal to include negotiations on IT systems at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I am also glad that the Minister has taken such an opinion that he welcomes this inclusion, because I really think it is important to discuss this in some broader plenary than in the Ministry alone. However, in connection with that last week, there was some information about the secretary's co-workers, who had some financial problems in particular, and I think that people who are deciding on large contracts, really ten million, should in some way be examined whether they are somehow corruptable or not having any other problems. Therefore, on this basis, I have had a manual drawn up, which is also based on the Ministry of Finance Code, on corporate governance, how to verify such people and on which aspects to look at before I cooperate with them, or if I choose a new person. So I support this proposal, I also suggest that this point be included and I hand over this manual of good practice to the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u35	Thank you. So this is the last performance on the agenda for the moment. Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u36	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I propose to include a block of press discussions on public prosecutors, paragraphs 114 to 116 of the programme, House prints 476, 524 and 569, for the amendment to the Law on Courts and Judges, current point 32, House press 630. The point is that the bill on the State's Attorney's Office was to be submitted to the Chamber of Deputies in June last year. We have tabled our own amendments and our proposals have not been discussed for nine months. So he's been lying there for nine months, raining on them. Madam Secretary should have made her own proposal. We gave her, I would say, sufficient room to negotiate with the prosecutors and other institutions, but so far to the Chamber of Deputies, as far as I know, nothing has happened. So that is why I would like to finally discuss our proposals for the State Prosecutor's Act, because we put them forward a long time ago, and it is an important issue that many citizens are interested in and which concerns, among other things, the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u37	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else wants to be on the agenda. I don't see anyone, so we'll take a vote on individual proposals. I've already summoned our colleagues from the lobby. There have been quite a lot of proposals, so we will now vote. First of all, we would vote on the proposal of the Grémium of the Chamber of Deputies. If there is no objection, we would vote on the proposal by a joint vote. Of course, I will still allow colleagues coming from the foyer to take their seats, but the number of votes is stable. We will therefore vote on the proposal of the Grémium of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 2, registered at this time 174 Members, for 163, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the proposal by President Bartoš, who proposed the inclusion of a new item Information by the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic on the position of the Czech Republic in the multiannual financial framework of the European Union. So first of all, we will vote on the inclusion of a new point. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 3, logged in 174, for 55, versus 10. The motion was not accepted. Therefore, we will no longer vote on solid inclusion. Furthermore, there is a proposal by President Jurečka to include a new point in the Czech Government's action to address the impending migration crisis. I'm picking up a motion for a check-out that I've just granted, please log in with your ID cards again. And we will vote first on the inclusion of a new point - the Government of the Czech Republic's action to address the impending migration crisis. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 4, registered is 166, for 79, against no one. This proposal has not been adopted. We will therefore no longer vote on solid inclusion. Furthermore, there is the proposal by Vice-President Okamura to include a new point, which - now I apologize if I have caught exactly the name - urgent or timely assistance to Greece to cope with the migration crisis. Acute assistance to Greece to cope with the migration crisis. First of all, the inclusion of a new point. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 5, registered is 167, for 75, against 1. This proposal has not been adopted. Mr Ferjenčík's proposal to include a new point is also here. Economic result of the Czech Republic for the first two months of this year. First, the inclusion of a new point. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 6, 171 Members signed in, for 72, against 55. The motion was denied. There is also Mr Kopřiva's proposal that we place paragraph 56, House Press 201, and paragraph 57, House Press 211 firmly - first there is a proposal for them to be placed firmly on Friday 6. 3:00 p.m. These are marriages between partners of the same sex and the proposed amendment to the Constitution, anchoring marriage in the Constitution, I can't find the name of the press right now, but enough, we know what we are voting on. So 6. 3. 14.00. [[The noise in the hall.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 7, registered 170, for 54, versus 51. The motion was not accepted. Then there's a second alternative proposal to put the same points on Friday 13. Three, again at 2:00. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 8, 170 entered, for 53, versus 49. This proposal was not accepted either. We will now vote on the proposal by Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, who proposes to include a new item entitled Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on sending Czech police officers to help Greek colleagues... You originally suggested the Minister of the Interior and then you said on the microphone of the Government, so we return to the original version of the Information of the Minister of the Interior on sending Czech policemen to help Greek colleagues. First, a new point. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 9, registered 172, for 89, versus 1. This proposal was adopted. I don't have an announced vote check. We will therefore vote on solid inclusion. Mr Ondráček proposes to put it firmly at 18.30 today. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 10, registered 172, for 73, versus 18. The proposal for a firm inclusion was not accepted. [[15.20 hours]] We will also vote on Mrs Černochová's proposal to include a new point, which is called Information of the Government on the situation at the border of Greece and Turkey. New point. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's up for a new point. Who's against it? In vote number 11 registered 173, for 91, against 2. This proposal was adopted. A new point has been placed. And it is proposed by the Member to place him firmly on Wednesday 4. 3. as the first point and, alternatively, as the first point of the afternoon negotiations. First of all, Wednesday 4. 3rd as the first point. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting number 12, 173 Members are enrolled, for 91, against 31. This proposal was adopted. Calm down, please. We will also vote on Mr Bauer's proposal, which proposes to include a new item Information Minister of Labour and Prime Minister on IT contracts at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I quote correctly. So we're going to add a new point. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 13 vote is 173, for 161, against no one. This proposal was adopted. The Member did not propose a firm classification with a view to creating room for agreement. So we just added a new point. There is also Mrs Kovářová's proposal on the inclusion of a new point Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the security of preschool and school education capacities, including their financing. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Who's against it? The number 14 vote is 173, for 89, against 5. This proposal was adopted. And, following a follow-up consultation, the honourable Member proposes to include this item firmly on Thursday 5. 3. as the fourth point after written interpelations. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 15 vote is 173, for 89, against 11. This proposal was adopted. We will now vote on the proposal to include a new item in Mr Klaus, a point called the Crisis is an opportunity, and therefore, first of all, its inclusion on the agenda of the meeting. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In vote number 16 entered 173, for 28, against 21. This proposal was not adopted. Mr Kolářík merely supported colleague Bauer. The final proposal is therefore the proposal by President Michálek to include paragraphs 114 to 116 concerning the prosecutor's office, prints 476, 524, 569, as an amendment to the Law on Courts and Judges, paragraph 32, print 630. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In vote number 17 is 173, for 56, against 34. The motion was not accepted. According to my remarks, we have dealt with all the proposals to amend the 41st meeting, and the vote on the agenda of the meeting as a whole is next. [[This is the messenger. Marík.]] To the vote? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to report that I voted in favour of voting number five, and I'm against high school. I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-03-03-ps2017-041-01-000-000.u39	Thank you. Back to the vote, then. We're voting on the 41st meeting. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 18, 173 Members are enrolled, for 159, against 1. The proposal was adopted and the agenda for this meeting was approved. Thank you. Before we proceed to the first point, I have an organizational announcement for you. Newly, the meeting room has a stopwatch on the speaker's desk, which will allow the speaker a better overview of the remaining time for his performance. The stop sign launches the meeting from its location. This is a solution to the request made to the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the work of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you. The Prime Minister apologizes today from 14:00 to 17:00 for reasons of work, Mr Juříček apologizes today from 17:30 to the end of the day for reasons of work, apologies from 3 to 6. 3. for health reasons, Mrs Lenka Kozlová. We'll proceed with the approved agenda. And first of all, a point.
