ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-26-ps2017-073-01-002-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 412/2005 Coll., on the Protection of Classified Information and on Security Eligibility, as amended /German press 1090/ - shortened negotiations And before I open it, before discussing the Government Act, we should assess, in accordance with Section 99 (5), whether the conditions for discussing the above draft law are in the shortened negotiations. I'm opening the debate. I'm asking if anyone's interested in a performance to shorten the negotiations. I see no one, I end the debate and we proceed to the vote. [[11.00 hours]] I shall make a motion for a resolution. "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 412/2005 Coll., on the Protection of Classified Information and Security Eligibility, as amended, House Press 1090, in a shortened hearing." Initiating vote, I ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 10, 97 Members registered, for 95, against no one. The resolution has been approved. Thank you, I'm handing over the meeting proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-26-ps2017-073-01-002-002.u2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. We have in front of us point 2 of this meeting and this is the government bill amending Act No. 412/2005 Coll., on the protection of classified information and on security competence, as amended. This is the House Press of 1090 and we are in a short version. [[correct: action]] According to the Government resolution at my disposal in the protocol, instead of the Prime Minister, this press will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Trade and by the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-26-ps2017-073-01-002-002.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very brief amendment, but it will have a significant positive impact on the parties to the repeated applications for certificates and documents, namely both natural persons and entrepreneurs, in a situation where the activities of both the National Security Office and its cooperating bodies, e.g. intelligence services or private entities are becoming more difficult due to the dissemination of covid and the measures taken. This may mean that the National Security Authority will not be able to decide, without the necessary information, within a specified period of time, on repeated applications lodged by the certificate holder and that access to classified information will be discounted. In such a case, a natural person shall cease to satisfy the qualifications for the performance of the work, at a given place, and the entrepreneur must submit classified information, for example, shall not be allowed. participate in procurement with a classified element. The decision of the National Security Authority on repeated applications shall have the same effect in the case of the holder of the document where there is an inability to carry out sensitive activities. In such a case where a party is legitimately expected to maintain continuity of access to classified information and that expectation is thwarted by the limited activity of the NBU and the cooperating entities, the State would be liable for the consequences associated with the impossibility of accessing classified information and the State would be liable for the damage suffered. This situation is to be prevented by this amendment, which clearly states that the party who submitted the repeated application at the time of the declaration of emergency or threat to the territory of our country, or has been declared in the course of the procedure for the application and the application of the certificate holder has not been decided, until the expiry of the period of validity of the certificate, will continue to be granted access to classified information until the time of the decision of the NSA for repeated applications, but for a maximum period of 12 months after the expiry of the certificate. The same method will be chosen for the holder of the document for the conduct of sensitive activities. Those arrangements are introduced by transitional provisions for persons who have submitted a repeated application for a certificate or document before the entry into force of this Act and who have not been in force for a period of validity of the certificate or document. At the same time, the periods referred to in Section 117 of the Act shall be fixed during the period of notification of the emergency, state of threat or state of war. Due to the urgent need for a solution, it is proposed that the law should take effect on the day following the date of the declaration of the law. On the basis of the above, I politely ask the Chamber of Deputies to give their consent to the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-26-ps2017-073-01-002-002.u4	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and I note that the Security Committee, to which the Government's bill has been ordered by decision of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, has discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to us as House Press 1090/1. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Security, Mr Pavel Žáček, who is ready to inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and of any possible amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-26-ps2017-073-01-002-002.u5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, the aim of the draft amendment to Act No. 412/2005 Coll., on the Protection of Classified Information and Security Eligibility, as amended, House Press 1090, is to reduce the risk of protecting classified information, where the performance of state administration and activity of business entities is negatively affected due to the ongoing pandemic of coronanavir, even in relation to the ability to comply with the obligations to provide information relevant for security management within the set deadlines. Thus, the National Security Authority cannot decide within a specified time limit on repeated applications lodged by the holder of the certificate, thus allowing for a discount of access to classified information. At the same time, time limits directly linked to the issue of certificates and documents shall be built for the duration of the declaration of emergency, state of threat or state of war. Therefore, the main purpose of the law is to avoid the threat that natural persons having access to classified information and participating in the security and defence of the State will be forced to cease carrying out activities related to the place of service where access to classified information is required. The draft amendment also took into account the relationship with the NATO Directive and the legislation of the European Union. The extension of the security certificate is without prejudice to EU law or NATO regulation, on the contrary, consistent with it. For a closer look at the difference table in the Houses of the Press 1090. The acquisition of the law is proposed on the day following its publication in the Collection of Laws. President of the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of his decision number 82 respectively. 83 decided that this law would be discussed in a short hearing, and ordered the House Press 1090 to the Security Committee. At the same time, it set a deadline for the submission of a resolution by 26 November 2020 at 9 a.m., which the Committee fulfilled. The Security Committee has discussed the bill and issued on 25 November 2020 resolution 197 delivered to Members as press 1090/1, which reads as follows: Resolution of the Security Committee of the 45th meeting held in a state of legislative emergency, etc. Security Committee of the Chamber of Deputies 1. 3 Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, to hold a general debate on the bill in plenary of the Chamber of Deputies; 2. In addition, it proposes that, under the same provision of the law cited, a detailed debate be held on the whole draft normative content; 3. Also proposes that the Chamber of Deputies close the debate on the House's press by Thursday, 26 November 2020 inclusive. 4. Recommends the Chamber of Deputies to give their consent to the bill. Finally, he instructs the chairman of the committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies and to the rapporteur of the committee to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Which I just did, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-26-ps2017-073-01-002-002.u6	I thank the rapporteur and we will continue. We have a committee proposal before us to have a general and detailed debate. And I ask the Chamber of Deputies if there is any interest in us having a general debate. We will decide on this in the vote that I have launched. He's number 11. I ask who is in favour of the general debate. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 11, out of the 96 73 votes in favour, against 2. The motion was accepted. I will therefore open a general debate and announce that no proposal has yet been made to limit the speaking time or the number of speeches, but I also note that I have no application for a general debate. So if no one is reporting, I am also ending the general debate. [[11.10 hours]] I am opening up a detailed debate. I also have no application, with the fact that I just have to remind you that if someone applied, they would have to justify their amendment, because none of them was mentioned on the committee, and I see that they will not even be heard here, so I am ending the debate in detail. In the absence of any proposal in the detailed or general debate, we may, in accordance with Paragraph 99 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, be able to make a proposal. 5 to 7 proceed with the third reading of this proposal. If no one objects, I'm opening a third reading. I am initiating a third reading by asking the rapporteur to follow with me from the rapporteur's table the debate that I am opening. I'm saying I don't even have an application at third reading. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Not the Minister, nor the rapporteur. In that case, I will ask the rapporteur to inform us of a simple voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-26-ps2017-073-01-002-002.u7	Thank you. The procedure is really simple. Since no amendment has been loaded, we can proceed to the vote on the amendment of the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-26-ps2017-073-01-002-002.u8	This is indeed a matter that we will not even vote on because it comes from the Rules of Procedure. We will proceed to the vote on the bill as a whole. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 412/2005 Coll., on the protection of classified information and on security competence, as amended, according to the House press of 1090, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies.' I've started the number 12 vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 12 of the present 97 for 89, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank the Vice-President of the Government and thank the rapporteur. I'm done with point number one. 2. At the same time, I conclude the 73rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Let me introduce you to the possibility we could make. [[A lot of noise and restlessness in the hall.]] I ask the House for peace. I'll put out a five-minute recess, and after five minutes, we'll be back in the 67th meeting. Since the press was 966, which was also held at the 67th meeting, discussed, I would begin and end it. But I'd like to have at least the presence for the five minutes after the official break. I hope none of you object to the President's procedure. Thank you. Meet me at 11.18.
