ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-006-066.u1	66. Government bill amending Act No. 268/2014 Coll., on Medical Devices and on Amendment of Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on administrative fees, as amended, Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on administrative fees, as amended, and Act No. 40/1995 Coll., on Advertising Regulation and on Amendment and Supplement to Act No. 468/1991 Coll., on the operation of radio and television broadcasting, as amended, as amended /German press 697/ - first reading The Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch will also present this proposal under the authority of the Government. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-006-066.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this second draft amendment law essentially responds to the first proposal submitted by the whole new Act on Medical Devices. We had yet to draw up a change law, which thus addresses a number of sub-areas. It is therefore the amendment of the current Act on Medical Devices, the amendment of the Act on Administrative Charges, the amendment of the Act on Advertising Regulation, as well as the amendment of the Act on Radio and Television Broadcasting. This proposal therefore complements the completely new draft law on medical devices discussed as the House's press 696. [[11.50 hours]] The draft accompanying act consists in amending the existing Act on Medical Devices with a view to adapting this Act to cover the area of in vitro diagnostic medical devices. Please note that the first law does not address medical devices in vitro. These are addressed by a special regulation that has a later effectiveness. So that's actually why the amendment to the existing law is still in force. The proposed solution responds to a situation where Union law for in vitro diagnostic medical devices takes effect two years after the modification contained in the general regulation on medical devices. Thus, the proposal will allow, from the date of entry into force of the general regulation on medical devices, which is 26 May 2020, and the new Act on medical devices until the date of entry into force of the regulation on in vitro diagnostic medical devices on 26 May 2022 and the submission of a new adaptation act to maintain a valid and effective regulation of in vitro diagnostic medical devices. So much for just explaining this area. As regards the amendment to the current Act No. 268/2014 Coll., not accepted. If this amendment had not been adopted, there would have been no legislation for in vitro diagnostic medical devices, since the current new draft law on medical devices implements the regulation on medical devices, the regulation for in vitro diagnostic medical devices does not contain any provision for in vitro diagnostic medical devices. The proposal also includes an amendment to the Act on Administrative Fees, which needs to be adapted in order to distinguish the administrative fees levied under the legislation on in vitro diagnostic medical devices and the administrative fees levied according to the regulation on medical devices and the new Act on medical devices. What is very important is the amendment of the Act on Advertising Regulation, which is presented as the implementation of the regulation on medical devices, when the State Institute for Drug Control is newly established as the body responsible for supervising compliance with the Act in the field of medical devices and a new specific regulation for medical devices is introduced into the Act. The aim is, therefore, to tighten up the regulation of advertising for medical devices, following the pattern of advertising for medicines, and therefore to give it to the State Institute for Drug Control, which is competent for this. The regional authorities are currently handling this, which in practice does not seem entirely optimal. We respond to various so-called scumbags, which means medical devices that pretend to be medical devices, but they don't actually have any health effect. We believe that there must be stricter regulation in this regard. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support this proposal, which aims to ensure that legislation continues to exist for in vitro diagnostic medical devices. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-006-066.u3	Thank you, Minister. Even with this press, Mr Julius Špičák is the rapporteur for first reading. The rapporteur, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-006-066.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will basically add to the detailed explanation by the Minister. This is a complex processing of a very complicated and complex administrative standard. So I would start with the last point. We all know that advertising in health care is a very delicate matter, which must be very clearly regulated and supervised. This is a very important part of the legal standard. Another objective, as has also been said, is to maintain the existing legislation on in vitro diagnostic medical devices, since only in vivo diagnostic devices have been substantially processed so far. So that's basically an important part. Finally, as has been said, other important components are those administrative fees which must be differentiated, administrative fees levied for in vitro diagnostic devices and in vivo diagnostic devices. Allow me to ask you to support this legal standard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-31-ps2017-040-08-006-066.u5	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Anyone reporting for the debate? No one is applying to the debate. I'm done with the conversation. There's no interest in final words. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee. Would someone else please suggest a guarantee committee? He's not suggesting. We will therefore vote on the Committee on Health Guarantee Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 196, 155 Members registered, for 119, against no one. I note that we have ordered the proposal to discuss the Health Committee as a guarantee committee. There is no proposal for another committee to deal with this press. Is any of the Members suggesting another committee? He's not suggesting. There was no motion to amend the deadline. Thank you, Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I am done discussing this point. President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček apologizes for today's meeting from 12 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons. We can't deal with the next item number 67. The Minister of Justice is excused, the government has not commissioned another member of the government to represent her here. I'm saying that this point, this print, is moving to the end of the block of first reading. That's how we ran out of government proposals. We are moving on to the proposals of the MPs. We'll deal with point number
