ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 435/2004 Coll., on Employment, as amended, and other related laws /house print 1025/ - first reading For the apologized Minister of Labour Jana Maláčová, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček will state this item on behalf of the Government. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u2	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, the Government's bill amending Act No. 435/2004 Coll., on Employment, as amended, and other related laws, is based, in particular, on the experience gained from the implementation of the support of employers affected by the Coronavirus crisis under the targeted Antivirus programme. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has assessed the need for legislative anchoring of system support, which will be able to respond operationally and efficiently to unforeseen situations and events not caused by employers, such as economic recession, epidemics, natural events, cyber attacks, etc., and will support the preservation of jobs with employers in these emergency situations. In the field of employment, the proposal introduces a new institute - support at a time of partial employment - which takes over the parameters and procedures of the best Antivirus programme and complements them with some other conditions for providing it. These are a compromise resulting from the Government's meeting on the proposal by a recommended working committee composed of representatives of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Health and Social Partners, to which the Chamber of Commerce was also invited. The granting of aid at the time of partial unemployment will be activated by a government regulation after prior consultation with tripartite and subject to the conditions laid down by law. The support for partial unemployment will then belong to the employer's employees to whom the Employment Act will apply. Specifically, the Czech Labour Office will provide employees with this support through the employer. The State will thus be able to partially take over the employer's costs related to the financial security of the employee in the event of established obstacles to work. However, payments of premiums beyond the actual performance of work will continue to be burdened, which will also address the adverse situation of the employer's financial involvement. The Government has requested the discussion of the draft law in the context of a short-term negotiation in the context of a declared state of legislative emergency pursuant to Section 99 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, in particular due to the current need to urgently address the situation of employers in relation to the maintenance of employment in connection with the replacement of the Antivirus programme, which, as has already been said in the previous debate, ends on 31 October 2020, and it is therefore necessary to find a permanent legislative instrument. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to support the necessary law, which is the result of intensive negotiations. It is, of course, a compromise, but I assume that we will continue to discuss this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur for first reading is Mrs Lenka Dražilová. I ask the rapporteur to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have heard here, the Government has tabled a bill amending Act No. 435/2004 Coll., 25 September and Members were sent as press 1025. Because the Minister said almost everything here, I will really simply sum up what is going on, the most important thing. In the Employment Act, it is proposed to anchor a new institute - so-called support at a time of partial employment - to which the State will support employees of employers who will be affected by economic difficulties caused by external factors, such as serious threats to the economy, epidemics, floods or cyber attacks. The government will decide on the provision, after having discussed in tripartite, the exact conditions will be set by the government in its regulation. It sets out the region, the sector, the scope of the reduced work and the period during which part of the salary would be paid by the State. [[11.40 hours]] According to the proposal, workers with an indefinite employment relationship which lasts at least three months shall be entitled to it. The aid shall be granted for a maximum period of 12 months and may be drawn within 24 months from the date of notification. The support will belong to the staff member only for the part of his weekly working time during which the employer does not assign him a job of at least 20, up to 80 per cent of his weekly working time. It is to be equal to 70 per cent of the average hourly net earnings of the employee. During the supporting period, the staff member may also participate in the activities provided by the Labour Office as a candidate for employment in the register of the employment office. The law will provide for a maximum aid amount of one times the average wage in the national economy for the first to third quarters of the previous calendar year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. President Miroslav Kalousek is the first with priority rights in the debate. She will then speak with the priority right of Mrs Lucie Šafránková, who is in charge of presenting the SPD's position, and then the co-workers and colleagues applied for in the order that you see them on the board. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I completely accept and do not criticise that the law is passed by Minister Petříček, the Minister is in quarantine, someone on behalf of the government has to present it. What I cannot accept is why you are presenting this to us in such a form, with the appropriate public commentary from the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister said yesterday in the media that we did not succeed in this proposal. Well, I have to agree exceptionally, and I think so too, that the government has failed. But I remember, in the 22 years I've been in the Chamber of Deputies, I really remember a lot. I remember some preposterous situations. But I really don't remember the government making a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies asking for his support, and at the same time the Prime Minister speaking for that government says, "We didn't succeed." So that's the innovation that's been here for the first time since, I think, 1990. There's a simple answer to that. Well, if you're convinced it didn't work out, then why in God's name are you putting it in here? So take it back, make it quick, make sure you're convinced that you've succeeded, and then we'll have a serious discussion about it. Why should we discuss a draft that the government itself says has failed? Then we'll be bassing people's creativity in the committees in the next 20 days at second reading, then it'll turn out somehow. And President Vondráček will send it to the Senate, probably with a note: We, Dear Senate, are sending a bill that we passed in the Chamber of Deputies, but somehow we failed. If you'd be so kind as to correct it for us in the Senate. Well, that's what the government's telling us! If that Vondráček had written it this way in the Senate after going through this, he would have done exactly the same thing as the Prime Minister says: "Dear Chamber of Deputies, we are putting forward a proposal that we have failed." You guys deal with this. This is ridiculous! Please, Your Majesty, take it back. Remake it very quickly. We declare our willingness to meet at any time, even on weekends at an emergency meeting, declare our willingness to say "yes, now we have done so," so we declare our willingness to shorten second reading by more than 20 days. But personally, I am not willing to discuss the draft government proposal that the Prime Minister is saying: "We have not succeeded in doing so. We really didn't do the whole government. That's why I'm making a motion to re-work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u7	Yes, thank you. I have noted the proposal and we will vote on it after the general debate. Mrs Lucie Šafránková will now speak with priority rights and will prepare Mrs Věra Kovářová, also with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Members of the SPD have always supported all meaningful proposals and measures aimed at supporting citizens, employees and businessmen, especially the damaged effects of emergency measures. And we ourselves have tabled dozens of our own proposals here in the House, aimed at directing the support of those groups of citizens that the government has forgotten, or given them very little help. That is why, of course, we also support the idea of introducing the Institute. support at the time of partial employment, for which the beautiful, typically Czech designation cursarbeit was introduced. The extraordinary time we are experiencing requires an extraordinary and not quite standard solution. The effects of restrictive measures in the context of the spread of Coronavirus in many sectors, now clearly of a long-term nature, are directly threatening the very existence of many businesses and employers, especially in certain sectors and particularly those of small and medium-sized enterprises. In today's situation, it is no longer possible to deal with ordinary economic and social policy instruments. The priority must be systemic prevention of the gradual emergence of large-scale unemployment and the resulting drop of thousands of our citizens into serious existential problems. Thus, the SPD is paid for - aid at the time of partial employment yes. However, the government's proposal has many errors and shortcomings, whether it is a way of declaring this aid, which will be in the hands of the government alone, which is a non-systemic and bad solution, or a variety of bureaucratic obstacles and uncertainties of the proposal, which will make life particularly difficult for small employers and extend the time to deal with the relevant applications. In this context, there is also a short-term overload of labour offices. But most importantly, a government proposal from the possibility of drawing this support precludes absolutely unduly tens of thousands of our employees in fixed-term employment, which de facto makes them citizens of the second category and exposes them to adequate (?) fall into income and existential poverty. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] That is why, in the SPD, we have prepared our amendments to this government proposal, which we will present in the next stages of its discussion. In the form presented, from our point of view, this proposal is completely inadequate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová will now appear and prepare Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u10	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. As has already been said here today, the proposal failed. If it came from the mouth of the opposition, it would be natural, normal. But it has already been heard from the Prime Minister's mouth, whose government has approved the bill. Of course, no one doubts that we need such a law because we know from experience from other countries that it can work very well and can promote economic growth just in a time of great crisis. What bothers us is some of the parameters of this law. Aside from the long process, the great bureaucracy, perhaps the most important problem for us is that the government decides that there will be an opportunity to draw on the cursarbeit. And the government then determines in which region, in which sector and to what extent. It is a pity that the government did not take an example from Germany, where this is decided by the Labour Office, because the Labour Office really knows its region very well, knows local companies, knows the problems of local companies, well knows the labour market in the small, smaller regions, and that is why we believe it would be better if this was the decision of the Labour Office, which could decide more quickly and respond more quickly to needs in its region. [[11.50 hours]] Of course, the cursarbeit should also help outside the crisis, for example when a engineering manufacturer loses a large market or a customer, for example six months he doesn't have a job for a large part of his employees, but he wants to keep these skilled people, but the government doesn't take any short-term decisions and the company has to lay off. Another problem that we see in this proposal is scope. This means that the extent of the pumping can be from one to four days. There is a risk - the reservations are very often - that in the case of the four days it is a very long time, and then of course it will allow so-called zombies to survive, which have long been on the verge of collapse, instead of responding to this situation, for example, to change their production program. This may lead to a slowdown in economic growth and labour market movements. We know that a large part of companies are looking for workers, and the labour market would again be so-called dead, without moving. Another question for us is the amount of 70 per cent that would be received by the employee to whom he is entitled from the net monthly earnings. We will also be submitting amendments there. We will respond and take an example from Germany, where it is distinguished whether an employee has children or children, and in that case the contribution is higher. Furthermore, we would like to draw attention to why, for example, the applicant has to prove himself to be an account with the Czech bank - the State obviously has an overview of his accounts. For example, why they must sign a separate declaration that they will pay a contribution to employees within 10 days. I mean, that could come straight from the law. So I could keep going. To sum it up, it's clear we need the bill. However, it is also clear that long discussions are needed on individual parameters so that they are really effective. Therefore, STAN will submit amendments in further readings. In such a form, the government's proposal is inadequate and we will support the proposal for recasting. If this doesn't pass, we'll support the release for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. There was a real point, but they've all checked out, so now it's actually Mrs Kateřina Valachová's turn. Mrs Richterová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club has dealt with these new rules of reduced work in the Czech Republic, and it is important to stress what opposition colleagues have not fully stressed here, that this is not a mere response to the current covido situation, but indeed, in a very short time, it is a proposal by the government to address the possible disruption of the economy and economic policy of the state due to a number of other situations, whether it is mentioned by the rapporteur or not, cyber attacks, of course, the risk from the perspective of the global pandemic is something that is undoubtedly something that, unfortunately, is a reality that is agreed by experts and scientists, will not end up for us merely covid-19, so it is necessary to prepare for this. Our government is minority. This also did not sound entirely honest, because it is clear that if we agree on some minimum solution to things, the Social Democrats and the ANO movement, it is clear that we have to do so in the Chamber of Deputies, and this law applies twice, if not three times, to look for the majority, so that, in the end, we can agree on how the rules for reduced work should look like for the future. I think we all share the goal of making it a functional model. As far as the Social Democrats are concerned, we have already announced last week that Members of Social Democracy support this government proposal from the point of view of minimal agreement, and, after all, our minority government itself has announced that it will look for the majority and is ready for discussion in the Chamber of Deputies. So we can say that this is unfortunate and that we want to have the perfect proposal here, which we will all vote on unanimously, but I think that for such a thing as the rules of reduced labour, it was common sense to expect a debate in the House to be. I'm glad for it myself, first of all, and second of all, I'm not afraid of it. After all, as you have been approached by trade unions, employers' parties, and we have been honest about our efforts to conduct dialogue here in the House in order to find the majority and find something that will work on the part of employees' rights representatives and employers' parties, and it will help our economy. In this spirit, I think the Vice-President of the Government also spoke at the beginning of the House. So let me sum it up. No porridge is as hot as it boils, and I think that this House will undoubtedly agree on the short-term work and on the rules that we discuss with employees and employers' experts, we will find a consensus and enforce them. For us as a social democracy parliamentary club, we have announced that we have put three proposals into the expert debate - and I think that there is no policymaking and so on. The first proposal concerns 1.5 times the average wage as the pay limit. Here I point out that it is perhaps natural, given the economic condition of the country and the future, that right now, before the budget is approved, the Ministry of Finance is vigilant in terms of further impacts, and that this debate is now coming at the House. So for us to have a professional debate, 1.5 times the average wage. We've already announced why we want this. The point is that we want to maintain qualified work also for possible cooling or deterioration of the country's economic situation, and we believe that there are rare agreements between employees and employers and that we should listen to them. The second point concerns the assessment of the situation where, and when, reduced work is not appropriate. There are different approaches to this from the expert's point of view. The Government's proposal chose the way to assess the units of days and each individual employee, in the expert debate the requirement that the reduced work and its launch be evaluated for the whole business, the whole factory, the whole company. So that is the second thing that we are interested in professionally and politically discussing in the House and for the government to get the majority votes that we need and which we lack for understandable reasons, if we are a minority government. The third issue concerns a request that I will just formulate here, but our proposals last week have not been formulated into a professional debate, but I have noted that, on the contrary, other political parties, clubs and factions will strongly promote it, and that is a requirement for us to support changes that would guarantee 80 per cent of the employee's net earnings. I think it's fair for this to be said here, too, because it's a matter, as I understand, of trade union representatives who care a lot about employees. On the contrary, the last thing we have announced is that social and health insurance should be related only to the contribution for the short-term work. Here and again - and I think it is absolutely natural that, on the one hand, there is a need to defend the results of social dialogue, and on the other hand, there is a need for great vigilance in terms of the economic impact on the welfare, social services and health care system, and I think it is good that the debate in the House will succeed, and I think that we should not slide down to the fact that the government's proposal for reduced work on the first good does not have the unanimous support of the House. [[12.00 hours]] That is what I think of the parties to other colleagues whose arguments I do not question, this idea, that is to say, unanimous vote on the proposal of a minority government in the case of reduced work as systemic changes with major budgetary implications, which we as a government have a responsibility to guarantee and guard even in the following medium term, so it is not entirely fair. And I conclude here with kindness and reconciliation that this House is undoubtedly the rules for the reduced work and for the maintenance of our country's economic policy, so that our companies are successful and our companies are successful and people have kept wages and jobs, skilled work, so that we can achieve it as the House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. President Marian Jurečka with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u14	Thank you. I'm gonna pick up, and I'm gonna have a real deal with my colleague Valachová. I am glad that there is a Social Democrat who also mentions the need to take care of the budget, because recently another Social Democrat said that budget impact debates are plentiful that they are tired. I'm so glad it sounded like that. But quite seriously. I don't remember, for example. one of the prime ministers, whether Bohuslav Sobotka or in the past one of the other prime ministers, came to the House and said that the proposal failed. I really don't remember it being like this. A consensus was always sought based on the ground plan of the coalition. You're two subjects, making it easier than three or four. And then I think that normally, when it's happening, and the coalition consensus is hard to find, all the other parties will just invite themselves to the table and look for an agreement in the narrowest possible format, not an argument to see how two coalition parties are arguing on the social committee, not conjecture here in the House. This makes it difficult to find an agreement in favour of the sector and thus to maintain employment. We strongly support this under the KDU-ČSL, but the debate is mainly about technical tools and data. Take the data and tell us how we want to set it up, why like this, why one-time, why one-and-a-half times, how many people we lose in that case. Why don't we also address the question of the individual view of some companies and it's quite a surface view. Why isn't the design addressed when the factory has to close, like in the case of Škodovka, completely, 100%. Those things aren't there. And we have them tested from experience a few months ago. So please, nicely, I would like you to be able to say from our individual pages, give us one person to discuss the parameters of the cursarbeit and let's do this with one or two negotiations at this level, and then we'll go back to plenary or committees. That's a really constructive thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. Mrs Valachová will respond to the factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u16	Thank you from the point of view of, say, the method of work for what has been said, I do not question it. Nor does any party to our coalition partners in the government question that. And the information I have verified, which has already been announced here at the House plenary today, shows that, on the one hand, there will be a meeting with representatives of trade unions and employers and, on the other, a meeting of all political parties, and if I have accurate information, maybe they will be supplemented, this meeting of all political parties is already being prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. Mrs Olga Richterová, Mrs Hyťhová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor. I'll try to sum it up quite briefly, because it seems okay to admit that I'm wrong. So maybe I'll surprise someone, my fellow Members, not much of you here, it seems to me that the Prime Minister doesn't do it often, but that in this situation, it's really appropriate to admit the mistake and admit it. However, as far as I know about the meeting on Monday at the Association of Industry and Transport, where the confession was made, there was no lesson in the error. And that is my second question: how does the government coalition want to proceed when it is unclear whether it agrees to be absolutely crucial, and this is a gradual path to objective criteria, a predictable procedure to trigger the aid in partial employment. This is the essence of the German model, the fact that companies know what to expect, employees know that it doesn't matter how good connections their bosses have, but how the whole system conditions are set. And this predictable must be the target. Of course, I'm an opposition Member, I don't know exactly how the negotiations were going, but I'm curious - unfortunately, not here - that's exactly what the Prime Minister's opinion was about. If the lesson is that objective foreseeable criteria will be introduced by his government. The specific parameters of how to set the whole system up are another thing. We have sent amendments for the pirát to the committee where we will discuss this tomorrow. The committee is public, it's going to be a public record. All I'm saying is that we're in favour of a higher level of support for a shorter period of time, more intensive aid for the more qualified, but perhaps 150 percent of the average salary, or one and a half times the average wage, we're willing to give, but for two months, for example. For the remaining months, when we would propose that this be limited to a total of six months, the 100 per cent times the average wage. So our philosophy is to support it more intensely, but for a shorter period of time, allow for redirecting resources, redirecting business activities, etc. But these are more or less technical debates and really suitable for amendments. But this debate is crucial to whether the government will continue to strengthen unpredictability and chaos, or, on the contrary, it will really inspire Germany, really set up at least the framework automatic trigger mechanisms, build experts at regional branches of the employment office, have top people in government, like through the Institute of Key Places, and so can predictably say yes to the whole economy, support in partial employment is a big intervention, but it will be a predictable intervention to which you pay this insurance because, even in our country, companies and employees are making payments on active employment policies, so we have a way of financing it. And that key question should be answered by the Prime Minister. To sum up - it's a shame that he's not here, it's a shame that it didn't say whether or not those automatic trigger mechanisms and top government experts who would finally decide it instead of the government instead of the political body, if this government wants to take this path. If the failed proposal is the first step, the first step, and goes the way to the top state administration, or not. And only such a presentation of an attitude would be a real lesson from the mistake I would like from the Prime Minister of this country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. Mrs Hyťhová Hyťhová will now appear, Mrs Aulická will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u20	Hello. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would like to comment on this for the Tricolor movement, because we will not support this proposal. And I'll explain the reasons why. First of all, it has been said here several times that the proposal that was presented to us today does not actually agree with it, or virtually. He admits that he didn't do very well, even the Prime Minister himself. So even the government thinks it's really embarrassing, and it's a total farce, because we're gonna lose a few hours here today with something that's not even worked out well, it's not something that we could celebrate here that we've successfully discussed. In short, there should be a proposal that should be handled well, not what's happening here today. Well, that's just for starters, 'cause this is really embarrassing. [[12.10 hours]] Now why don't we support the proposal. First of all, the relatively low amount, which is the ceiling of aid of an average wage in the national economy of about 33 000, is a non-systemic measure. This is selective aid, which once again solves the problem of transnational montovens. It significantly disadvantages the higher and more skilled workforce. In fact, it selectively discriminates between entrepreneurs and employees with higher added value. Do we need to save multinational groups that will potentially be an important entity in the use of the aid? That's a question. Two. This will significantly distort the labour market. Subjects that have no economic reason to exist, of course, regardless of the covid epidemic, will continue to produce inefficiently. After the end of the payment of the aid, inefficient companies will also disappear or reduce the number of their employees strongly. This means that we are losing this reality and spending money on all of us citizens instead of moving to companies that really have a future. After this crash, there will be no means to bail out the losses of these extinct companies. This means that the government has created a state budget deficit that we are eating instead of using for efficient investment. We understood that this support was needed at the outset, but we believe that if we keep pushing these problems ahead of each other, the problems themselves will not go away. Plus, the 12-month period is pretty long. And if the proposal had been revised a little bit, certain parameters would have changed and the time would have been reduced, so of course it could be considered. But as it is set up now - and I take it that the government will also decide on the conditions and parameters, when we will actually agree on a sort of bingo check here, which will then adjust to the final state of the government, which I consider to be absolutely wrong. It should be decided either by an entity like the Labour Office or by the Chamber of Deputies, but I do not see why such a thing should be in the hands of a government that should set parameters. Next thing we know, people are starting to feel like they're normal not to work. People are at home, they're losing their work habits, but most importantly, they don't have the incentive to get new jobs. And so, for example, our Minister of Agriculture complains that thousands of agricultural workers are missing and we import foreign workers instead of using workers who will be at home in quotation marks. Those who don't have their application at the moment, unfortunately. The most vulnerable areas will not save this measure anyway, such as the gastro and so on. Few of the entrepreneurs have a larger reserve in this area to pay their contributions and part of the wages they pay from their own resources. Our representative's statement now to the indebted government, Minister Benešová, that an entrepreneur must have - I quote - cotton is really sad because I think this situation is definitely a little different and much worse. If the Minister is convinced that it's okay that the firms and businesses have the money for it, I think he's a little, a little wrong. So I say for us once again that we will not support this proposal. If the government had processed this proposal, it would have been good, it wouldn't have been this long, and of course certain things would have completely dropped out of it, simply redesigned it, so we could think about it. But in this case, as the proposal is presented to us today, I consider this to be a complete shame, which makes no sense to comment further. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. President Zbyněk Stanjura will now speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor. I will try to be quite brief and outline the main changes that we should make together in this bill. First, I'm going to loosen up my colleague, who spoke a moment ago. The bill gives enormous powers to the government. And I want to say to any government, not just this, so we can realize. I don't think it's right, and it's something we should still be debating. And now for the specific parameters. Firstly, the principle in general is supported by citizens' democrats, and we have been saying this all along. However, the proposal for support to be drawn on those who have only 20 per cent of the week's working time, that is, one day at work and four days off work, is bad to me. Our proposal, our parliamentary proposal, is aimed at at least half of it. That means 50 per cent to find the job, then the 50 per cent is short-term enough to help the state. On the other hand, I think that even the upper limit could increase from 80 percent to 90 percent. It would really help many, even those who work four and a half working days, so that possibly the company can draw the support on that half a working day a week. When I talk about the support, I think that much better and more sensible is the support to count on gross wages, not net wages. Of course, a net wage depends on who applies - for example, who makes a deduction from parents and who doesn't. I think it's wise to talk about gross wages, because then the firm gets the same support regardless of what specific deductible items a particular employee applies. And let's talk about the height. I'm not saying it has to be 70 per cent of gross wages, but we think it's easier in terms of accounting, wage regulations, if we go to gross wages, not pure, which very often vary according to who applies what deductible items. If the state is to support these jobs - and I repeat, we are in favour - it is not logical that when I say that 100 per cent is aid so that 24.8% of this support is paid by the employer for social security. Let's just say that the support is 75 percent, but not 100 percent, as suggested. So our proposal will be aimed at making out of the support, from the part that - when the employee is home and the employer receives support for the job so that social security doesn't pay. It's a little different with health insurance. I think that the health system needs money, and our proposal will aim to ensure that health insurance is paid by the state in support of maintaining these jobs. Of course, and I think that is a big consensus, I have also noted similar amendments from other political clubs, so that there is no limit on the promotion of one-time average wage. We have two proposals right now to make it 1.5 or 1.8. I think qualified employees are key to every company's success. Employers will be very happy to help them maintain key qualified employees for a transitional period, because they want to get rid of them as last, of course. I think these are the main parameters that we should discuss. I'm going to repeat my proposal, which I said about the draft program. I think that the first political act should be about those principles, and then we should transform it together into a specific legislative proposal and into a specific text of the paragraphs. And he won't let me comment, and I'm very sorry that, in fact, for about the fourth time, the government has refused to deal with the support of small employers and businessmen. I know it doesn't hurt you, but don't punish them for it. Don't punish them for that. I think the support-- we're just saying that we're kind of saying, like the Antivirus A that does the government, that it's a good program, and we want it to go on. But with antivir c, all you're defending is debate. About four times you have rejected the inclusion of these points on the agenda. It's too bad. And I don't know how you're gonna explain to these employers and businessmen why they're supposed to be expelled from this potential support. As a mantra, we've heard in the past few weeks and months that the Antivirus will continue until cursarbeit. If we propose that this applies to small businesses and businessmen, then suddenly it does not apply to this important group. 700,000 businessmen and about 800,000 employees in those small companies that have been supported under the Antivirus C program, and you have tossed them overboard for the fourth time today with this vote. And it's too bad.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. Member Hana Aulická Jírovcová will now appear. Ambassador GajdůGajdůšková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u24	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues, I think I'll be very brief. Anyway, for the KSČM parliamentary club, I would like to take a few comments, or perhaps some topics, topics for discussion. But I think we agree more or less in this discussion. I believe that the way we came to the Kursarbeit or the Government's Employment Bill to the Chamber of Deputies, as we are all sitting here across the political spectrum, we will not find a consensus on this version. We do not see that we would vote for him in this form. We have individual reservations about them. They were mentioned here. [[12.20 hours]] Our amendment, which speaks of an increase from 70 per cent of aid for net average hourly earnings to 80 per cent. Another amendment was added to the system by Mr Grospič, which is identical to the SPD proposal, so that the objective is not only for employees who have an indefinite term but who have a fixed term, but, of course, for at least 12 months, that they should be worked off. As a KSČM we also want to talk about the amendment, I think it is inserted there perhaps three or two times, which speaks of 1.5 times the refund. When we started talking about the form of cursarbeit at all, we think that really 1.5 times would be optimal. We're talking about over 50,000 wages here. And so, as we perceive the situation with employees, where it probably doesn't really matter whether we're talking about a guy who does a working profession or who does a technical job. If he works in a particular sector, which, as I say, is paid for by gold, he really gets to 50 or 45 thousand gross in the labor profession. And I really think we should go the way 1.5 times that. For me, the cursarbeit aims as we interpreted it with us, especially the employees the employer wants to keep. He wants to keep it in a time of crisis, and he will act accordingly. We are very sorry about President Pekarová's amendment to Adamová, who speaks of the fact that it would be possible to release these employees during this period, when employees or employers would use the cursarbeit. We believe that this is really stealing into the Labour Code and that even the fact that all employees are shutting down the possibilities in the Labour Code, we would still put this as a cherry on the cake, and we really reject this amendment. For us, we are pleased that the government coalition has also agreed that this important law is not really being discussed in a legislative state of emergency. I am convinced that we simply cannot afford it as the House, because we want to approve here, whether in the final form we will not at all forward how it will turn out, but I think that here too it has been said that there are further negotiations across the political spectrum. Anyway, we're talking about the fact that this standard, this amendment, should be in effect for decades, even after some minor modifications, maybe even the model in the form of Germany. Anyway, they're estimates for the next few years, and I don't think it's up to you now. But I believe that this really should be approved across the political spectrum. That is why we too are happy to be at KSČM and, in fact, we have also declared on the First Committee on Social Policy that we will not agree with the legislative emergency situation and that we want a proper discussion for this reason to discuss any comments across the political spectrum. I must say, I do not like the performance of my colleague at Tricolore. By your means, perhaps, Mr President, I would react a little. I'm not sure we're dealing with a distortion of the labour market. In the past, we discussed that any State interference was inadmissible. But we're talking about a global crisis and really problems that no one expected. On the other hand, we also see that they are employers, and we know who, in fact, can use the help that comes from the state today to the maximum extent possible, but also without any loss of their other business options. And I believe, as we have seen the efforts of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and their COVID program, that we really did not turn out well there. But as far as Antivirus at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs is concerned, it really turns out that the B and C are really good, that they can really help where they need to be. I think we should learn from everything and act on it at the same time. And for KSČM, of course, dogma is the main thing to keep the employees who deserve to have a real job, because the situation is that no one is likely to be able to estimate anything right now. And by the end of the year, we don't know what's coming, what's going to happen. Increases in covid still do not weaken and rather talk about growing numbers. And I believe that we should behave accordingly. And the state's help is being offered here, so I'm just calling on everyone to really tell each other what the resemblance was, and they're not really here to figure out that everything is actually wrong and that it shouldn't be dealt with. I think that way, that perhaps even the situation that awaits us next year, so our citizens really don't deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková, will now be speaking in the debate, the last one to be logged in at the moment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the promotion of partly employment is equal to the promotion of employment. That's what social democracy has always been about. Companies and people need to know that if there is a crisis, there will be a mechanism for people not to lose their jobs. And companies won't lose their highly skilled loyal employees, without which no company can work for long. That is why we need this bill as a system measure for the moment, for the current crisis, but also for the future. We want this bill to make the cursarbeit program, if you want to support partial employment, to start paying from 1. 1. 2001, since January, to follow up smoothly on the Antivirus program. I therefore propose a reduction of the deadline between the first and second reading to 12 days so that the proposal can be discussed at the third reading at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. from 20. 10. But I hope that even in this short period of time, in this short time, we can still agree to modify the parameters so that the proposal gets maximum support here in the Chamber of Deputies, but also in tripartite. Maybe I should have started with the tripartite. This is the thing, cursarbeit is really the thing where it is necessary for social partners to agree, i.e. employers, employees and the government. We want this measure to become really systemic, so that companies and people know what will happen if they lose their jobs if unemployment threatens. For me, it is important to increase the maximum amount of aid to 1.5 times the average income. What companies need, and what is in the interests of economic performance and economic growth, is to keep highly skilled employees in companies, people who simply manage to start up again after some time. The debate on other parameters must, of course, also take place. Kateřina Valachová spoke for us for the Social Democrats. [[12.30 hours]] However, it is also necessary to talk about the link between the promotion of partial employment in terms of increasing or extending qualifications and, where appropriate, retraining. Not in vain is it said that every crisis is an opportunity at the same time, and here it is actually offered. If we have to make a change, and this change simply comes, whether we like it or not, let us use it to the max to move our economy to move our economy to high value added areas to support economic growth in the future. I believe we can do it together. I beg you to support the bill, release through first reading, and again I ask you to agree to shorten the deadline. I am convinced that we are able to do so in the Social Committee and in the necessary expert debates on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. With the factual remark of Mrs Tereza Hyťhová. Furthermore, with priority rights, President Markéta Pekarová Adamová will speak. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u28	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would just like to comment on my colleague from KSČM, Mrs. Aulická. I did not say that the Antivirus programme did not work, on the contrary, today I voted for the inclusion of a point which unfortunately did not pass by the House and that the Antivirus programme should be extended until the end of 2020, i.e. for the remaining months. This proposal was from the ODS, unfortunately the House failed. That would feel a lot better than discussing a law that's poorly prepared today, and we don't really know how it's gonna go. I just think the Antivirus worked. It's a shame it didn't go through for the rest of the months, but that's the way it is. This is how I wanted to express myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u30	Thank you, Mr President. You're still on your way to a colleague. I think that's what you said, among other things, but you just talked more about the fact that employers are not helping and that the market is being distorted and so on, by the fact that the bill is what it is. I've just made my point, but I think, and I stand by the fact that you've actually taken it from a number of directions. And for us - what else, if your proposal did not pass in the context of the extension of the Antivirus, the government can now do, and I do not defend it, we were the ones who said that it is necessary to continue to prolong the Antivirus, of course, depending on the form in which it is, but what else can the government do except that by the end of the year it really will extend the Antivirus in some form. I don't think she's going to allow herself to extend so that everything ends 31. 10. because the situation in the Czech Republic is that if the government did, I think we're going to have a lot of heat here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. And now, in the debate, President Markéta Pekarová Adamová will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry to say hello to Secretary Maláčová at this distance, that she cannot be here with us in this standard, of course, for a perfectly understandable reason. But basically, there's no response to a whole series of arguments or counter-argument behind the government, and no one's defending the proposal. He's a little bit of an abandoned orphan, trying to get a couple of government-party MPs, but it's pretty inadequate. In any case, the bill is sounded in public space, frequented from all sides, and is not satisfied with it at all by anyone, by employers, by representatives of employees, trade unions, experts, economists. Virtually everyone agrees that even though it has been prepared since May, or at least we are told that it has been prepared since May, so the five months of preparation on it are definitely unknown. The name cursarbeit, because we do not have a very good, simple, fitting Czech word, can become quite confusing because by it being a word in German, it may look like we have a similar proposal here, which is used especially in Germany. But the Czech proposal, such a cursarbeit in Czech, has nothing to do with the German. The main reservations we have on the proposal will try to adapt the amendments. And I agree with what has been said here by many that it cannot be concreted by the old economy, it cannot be preserved in this way, but we must try to invest in the restructuring of the economy and in the new economy. This challenge before us, this crisis is an opportunity for her, is not fulfilled by this proposal. There is clearly no effort to activate people at risk of losing their jobs. This is, for example, one of the aspects that the German model has, and this Czech model absolutely misses it. There really is no effort to motivate people to learn more; So when they no longer have the opportunity to work for some part of the week, so that this part of the retraining and so on is more supported. It doesn't even contain this proposal. It merely preserves old order and tries to save often even unsavable. Because how else do you explain that jobs where the employer has only one day a week are to be supported and protected? One day a week is enough, which means if we take it on average, four days a month is enough to work and you are entitled to this support. This is what we're gonna try to change. I think that at least two days a week must be there, if not more, in order for such a place to be considered even more promising for the future. And I'm sure there's a way to express perspective with that. According to the government's proposal, more skilled workers would lose their chance to be supported because the ceiling, as it is set, is too low. Therefore, the proposal that one and a half times the average wage be the ceiling, and we will also be happy to support the proposals that have been made here, which think of qualified jobs. I mean, they're the ones who have a chance to help companies a lot of times out of trouble, and we don't have to miss it. The TOP 09 also proposes another amendment concerning the Labour Code and concerns the possibility of dismissal without stating the reason that the employee would be supported by the State by two monthly severance payments and the employer was paying only one. Three months of severance pay is a long enough time to have a chance to find a job elsewhere in a forward-looking job or start a business, so that we can move away from an economy that is built on cheap work, an economy that is built on added value. After all, this is what we are a little jealous of Germany or what we look up to in our own way, and we should also try to catch up. We have overtaken Germany here in the number of infected, but we are not trying to adapt what works well there to the Czech environment. And I'm convinced that it would be possible, but it would just take more effort. The compromise that Minister Maláčová called bloody is practically hard to defend here, and I firmly hope that the proposal will be revised, or at least those amendments will be adopted that will move it to something that actually has a chance of helping all those concerned, including society, by helping the Czech economy and changing its structure. That is what we need as salt, and that is what we can use this crisis for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. She will now speak with the factual remark of Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková and will be followed by Minister Petříček in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u34	Thank you. Just really fast. I have to say, I'm terrified of what President Adamová said about that one thing. Kurzarbeit as well as Antivirus are tools to promote employment, but to propose basically dismantling the basic principle of the Labour Code, it is that you can release a person immediately without giving any reason, this is not the way to promote employment. I really cannot agree with this, and we cannot, and I would be very afraid of this provision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u35	A point of fact, President Kalousek. [[This is the minister.]] With priority rights, Minister Petříček is now on the list. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to comment briefly on the ongoing debate. Firstly, I would like to emphasise that this is indeed a compromise. The compromise, which the government has also clearly declared, wants to discuss further with the parliamentary parties. And, as has already been said, at this point, the petitioners already want to enter into negotiations with the parliamentary party chairmen on concrete proposals for amendments to the proposal. It was repeatedly said that we had a model in Germany. Of course, the basic inspiration comes from Germany. But it is necessary to realize the specific differences, why we cannot only take over the German model or the institute of cursarbeit, and convert it to the Czech environment. This is, for example, the difference in the Institute's obstacles to work, of course, there are otherwise set contributions to the state budget, or there is also a completely different approach to the issue of non-working time or access to when the employee is not at work. Thirdly, I would also like to stress that this proposal does not want to make any comments. It is a proposal to enable employers and employees to adapt. Last but not least, I would like to respond briefly to President Stanjuru. Of course, social democracy has always encouraged the contributions of small Czech companies to be abolished. That's why we pushed for it this way. And if the situation so requires, we will continue to promote it. So I would have responded briefly to the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. Madam President Pekarová Adamová, with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor. I will take advantage of the fact that the Minister here has said what I think should have been said in this debate, that there is an effort not to bring this proposal to the current working environment, i.e. those places that no longer have a perspective. That's a nice way to declare it, that's a nice way to say it. But I would like to know, Minister, and I would also like to ask you for an answer to what exactly this proposal of yours, as the government puts it, is doing. I'd be very interested. Maybe I just can't find it in the proposal. So please help me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u39	Thank you. President Miroslav Kalousek in the debate. Last logged in at the moment. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor. I was worried it might not work out for me. I wanted to politely reply to Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, asking her to think about it. We are simply going through a crisis that will significantly change the structure of the Czech economy and also change the conditions of the labour market. And the crisis won't just be defeated. He'll have his winners too. This means that there will be a growing demand for labour in some fields. In other fields of today's Antivir, and I fear that even the cursarbeit that the government is proposing now will be preserved places that don't really exist anymore. And let's try to answer the question we want. Whether we want to aim ahead or whether we want to protect what was. And I believe that, with full respect for the social protection of employees, we must aim ahead. This means that we must preserve the social security of the three-month severance package for employees, but at the same time we should relieve the employer of the administrative and financial burden. Because first of all, it's very complicated, and second of all, it's very expensive. In our opinion, the state here should be able to help for that temporary period. I repeat, this is a transitional period. Otherwise, we're going to be able to preserve something that can't function completely effectively anymore, because we're just going to be preserving places that aren't really there anymore. We're just gonna protect these people. But this will not help the Czech economy, employers or employees. Again, no one wants to jeopardize the social protection of employees. We are just aware that there is a significant break in the structure of the Czech economy. And he's not just caused by covid. The covid only accelerated a lot of things - the situation in the automotive industry and so on. There is a significant break in the structure of the Czech economy, and thus completely different - not completely, but significantly different - demand for jobs in individual fields. And either we try to adapt to it in full protection of social workers and allow the market to react flexibly, or we preserve zombies. One or the other. I'm begging you to think about this. This is more of a second reading discussion. But I think this is a very crucial discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u41	Thank you. I'll just make sure. Minister Petříček is reporting for the debate or with a factual remark? In fact. So now she will speak with the factual remark of Mrs Gajdůšková, Mr Brázdil, and then Minister Petříček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u42	Thank you very much for the floor. But that is simply not the case, Mr Kalousek, through Mr President. The protection of the Labour Code is the protection of the employee. No one's saying it's the protection of a given job. And the company can handle it. This guy can be transferred to another job. There's a deal. Anything can be done. But to dismantle the basic angle, the basic thing that protects employees, and that's that they can't basically get fired for an hour, that's just, don't be mad at us, but as Social Democrats, we can't allow it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u43	Thank you. Mr Milan Brázdil - factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u44	Colleagues, colleagues, Mr President, thank you for the floor, I will be short. I would like to respond to my colleague Kalousek. This crisis is supposed to have its winners and losers. I'd love for the winners to be in health care. There are unemployed people here today, or people who are worried about work. I would very much like to call on you to consider (?) for a hard job and soft, so come into that hard job that takes care of people. If any of you could set up for health care, come and help. I would love for us to win. Our health services should win. And he's gonna win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. Now Minister Tomáš Petříček with a point of fact. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Shortly only for President Pekarová Adamová. The whole proposal is based on work, not non-work. It's employment support. The second thing is, of course, that this is a temporary proposal and also a proposal in which the employer is financially involved so as to be motivated to seek solutions that will be long-term. The long-term solution is, of course, that in the absence of work, these people are supposed to be requalified, to use the active employment policy tools, as my colleague Valachová or Gajdůškovášková, for example, spoke of. And last but not least, let's also admit that the proposal envisages that the employee will have a lower income, so he is motivated to look for a job where he will have a full income, where he will be full-time. So I think that even in this context, the proposal envisages that it should motivate employees to actively address their situation. And overall, it's not concrete as it's drawn here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u47	Thank you. President Vojtěch Filip will now speak with priority in the debate, at this time the last registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u48	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief. First of all, there is a reaction to the performance of my colleague Kalousek. Well, the winner must be the next economic performance of the Czech Republic. In principle, it is not about maintaining some jobs that are not promising, but it is about maintaining the work teams without which a certain highly qualified product cannot be done at all, or highly qualified work, service, etc. That's why those principles, when we started discussing them with the government a month ago, consisted of not being the whole work group of the whole company, but just the highly qualified job at the firm. The second principle we maintained was that it must be the relationship between the employer, the employee and the state, that is quite obvious. And the third principle was that when the state pays it back, it has to be paid off in the next period, i.e. There's going to be a certain power that's going to be there. It is not about maintaining jobs that are not promising. That is why we agreed that the government would decide this after the meeting or, if you wish, after the tripartite negotiations. We have discussed this with the trade unionists, we have discussed it with the employment unions, and we have the same view. Finally, this led to our disagreement with the short-term negotiations and to the fact that we have it here in all three readings, although we need the law as soon as possible, because we cannot extend the one-off law that we adopted here during the first crisis, because it does not have the flexibility, it does not have a concrete answer to the changed conditions that will be here. I don't want to mention the decisions, probably the most qualified ones, that fell in the late 1950s in Japan, where they decided what they would do and what they would support, and that led to a long-term rise of more than 30 years in Japan's economy. In fact, they repeated the same thing in the Federal Republic of Germany. Our law must also be regulated on our terms. I think we're going to be discussing the individual parameters here at second reading. I wouldn't want to delay the debate in any way, but I felt it necessary to get back to it. If we agree that we need the law, I do not consider it a law that would be an asshole. I consider this to be a bill that we need to discuss with the utmost seriousness right here in order to assess all the parameters of the three perspectives that I consider fundamental - what the government needs, what employers need and what we have to do for employees to maintain both the working collectives and their social security. We just can't function without it. It's our responsibility as to what the law will look like. We really can't trust that responsibility to anyone else. It's really up to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u49	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate, please? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. Interested in the final words? My rapporteur, Mrs Dražilová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u50	I would like to sum up the general debate, where we have heard a lot of reservations from the debaters, there have been a lot of proposals. And I just want to remind you that at this point, we have 19 amendments in the system. As rapporteur, of course, I support the discussion of political parties which would lead to agreement on fundamental changes, and, after all, my colleague Valachová has already said that such a discussion is about to be held. There were two proposals, it was a proposal for a refund and a proposal for a reduction of the deadline to 12 days. As rapporteur, I do not support the proposal for a return, nor the proposal for a shortening of the deadline, and I recommend that this House press be forwarded to second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. Does the Minister wish to speak? No, he doesn't want the final word. So, before we deal with the commandment of the motion for discussion, if we are to deal with this, we must deal with the proposal that was made in the debate, which was presented by President Miroslav Kalousek, and it is that we return the proposal to the applicant for completion. I have called in Members and Members who are not in the Chamber. There's a checkout request. I've checked you all out, please sign up with your voting cards again. We are therefore voting on the application to be returned to the applicant for completion. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 28, 94 Members registered, for 27, against 21. The motion was not accepted. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, the guarantee committee. The proposal from the Organisational Committee is that the proposal submitted be directed to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. Is anyone suggesting another guarantee committee, please? No. So we're going to vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 29, 94 Members registered, for 94, against no one. I note that we have ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose a hearing on any other committee. Mr. Miroslav Kalousek's application is here. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the standard is so crucial and so poorly prepared at the same time, as the Prime Minister has said, after all, I only agree with him that this should be dealt with by the Economic and Budget Committee, because it has significant budgetary implications and, of course, large impacts on economic policy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u53	Thank you. I have seen Mr Ferjenčík's application, but apparently the proposal he wanted to make has already been made. Anyone else please report to the next committee for discussion? No. There were two suggestions. Commandment to the Economic Committee, commandment to the Budget Committee. We will vote on them gradually. First, we will decide on the commandment to the Economic Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 30, 95 Members signed in for 79, versus 1. We have ordered the proposal to be discussed by the Economic Committee. We will now vote on the commandment to the Committee on Budgets. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 31, 95 Members signed in for 41, versus 1. The motion has not been approved. The proposal will therefore be dealt with by the Economic Committee. [[13.00 hours]] And there was also a proposal to shorten the deadline to 12 days. We can vote on this proposal if the veto of two clubs is not mentioned. I have Mr. Kalousek's application... No, it's a mistake. We have heard the proposal, the rapporteur's disagreeable position, but that is no reason not to vote on this proposal. So we're going to vote on him, short for 12 days. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 32. Registered 94 Members, for 20, against 12. The proposal has not been approved, the deadline has not been shortened. This has dealt with all the proposals that we should have voted on. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I am done discussing this point. At the same time, I note that the House will meet again at 2:30 p.m., when we will proceed firmly with item number four.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-07-ps2017-061-01-001-001.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, only Vice-President Hamáček is here from the Government, so honourable Vice-President, we have another agenda for our meeting. In the morning, we agreed to start at 2:30 p.m. with point four. That's what it is.
