ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-007-350.u1	350. Mr Jan Hamáček's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 320/2015 Coll., on Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws (Act on Fire Rescue Corps), as amended by Act No. 183/2017 Coll. House print 794 - third reading I ask that Mr Jan Hamáček and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Pavel Růžička, take his place at the rapporteur's table. They're both present, we can proceed. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 794/4, which was delivered on 12 November 2020. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 794/5. I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. It's not like that. In that case, I am opening a debate in which I have a single application, and this is Mr Pavel Žáček. So please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-007-350.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, as I announced yesterday during the interview, I will repeat again why we have a problem with the bill. First of all, this is because there is nowhere to be explained in the proposal presented, why the proposal was submitted by the Minister of the Interior as an amendment to the standard legislative process of government bills, thus avoiding inter-residual commentary management or assessment of the impact of regulation, as we all well know. It has been several times since the Minister of the Interior and, at the same time, the Member has been doing so unsystemically. To be clear, the Civil Democratic Party certainly supports firefighters in their work. And I would like to stand so resolutely against the views of the Minister, which were presented here yesterday, which claimed otherwise. But we believe that it is not easy to amend the law regarding the Security Corps, and it is often difficult to avoid mistakes. He has this, as we all know, to prevent commentary proceedings. In principle, the amendment does not adversely affect the fire department and its members and has real and not only illusionary benefits. When I asked Minister Hamáček what led him to submit the bill with a parliamentary initiative instead of a standard process, I was told in writing that he could simply do so. He also stated that, in his view - I quote - the proposals are presented systematically, in order to address the current problem and to exercise my constitutional right. Yes, he certainly has the right to do that, and I'm not questioning it at all. But I must respond to that, that the Ministry of the Interior does not proceed - I quote according to his letter, according to his statement - in order to solve current problems. And as an MP, can heal this dysfunction of the resort with his parliamentary proposals? Is the resort under his leadership unsystematically working against the interest of solving current security problems? Although it is possible to acknowledge the effort to redefine (?) the administrative burden of the Fire Rescue Corps and also include other situations in the coverage of the intervention of the Fire Rescue Corps by insurance companies, is the Minister elected process debatable. During the whole discussion, I did not know exactly what the easing of the administrative burden was. When it comes to the fact that an implementing regulation creates one form, I don't really believe it. As if there were no more forms today, the so-called intervention report, where all the necessary information was, what time the exit was, what time the arrival time, with which technique, how many units intervened, what resources were used, and so on. Therefore, must a new model form be created for the application of entitlement to reimbursement of intervention costs by means of an implementing regulation? What is the simplification? Isn't there going to be a photo-documentation, or what's going to be done? How much time do we save? We don't know. The Minister replied that the fire protection units were compensated for the cost of interventions of CZK 5,600 per hour of intervention. This amount of reimbursement is mainly based on statistics on the intervention activities of fire protection units, which take into account the real costs of operation of fire protection techniques and associated costs. But why didn't he provide me with these real cost statistics? It includes depreciation of techniques, used sorbents, time and salary of members of intervention units and so on. If an accident, such as a moped, on some third-class road, is likely not to be the same as an accident in an asphalt tank with acid spilled on the highway. I don't want anyone to get it wrong, it's perfectly okay and right that the culprit of the accident, albeit on the way of the insurance company, pays everything he's done, but at that point, we just have to figure out how much or how much we've reached. This calls for a more detailed discussion, calculation and consideration of the context, which, thanks to the Minister's choice of way of presenting the proposal as a Member without commenting on the other departments, has de facto made it impossible for us. The simple fact is that the Fire Rescue Corps is always right. This applies to information in the insurance form. So I asked them yesterday: what if the commander doesn't have it? On this point, the Minister told me that the construction of a rebuttable legal presumption - I am quoting now - in the proposed section 44 para. 9 of the Act in question is one of the basic principles of the new regulation, which aims, inter alia, to simplify and speed up the procedural aspect of the case when generating as little as possible the costs of all parties concerned to the administration associated with this. But, Minister, that's how the communists thought in the past. The state is right, and now, citizen, disprove it. Will this really lead to speeding up the process and saving time and money? Maybe just the state. What about the citizen, am I asking again and just like yesterday? I would still like to comment on an amendment that regulates the possible publication of an intervention record. It would mean that such information and records can be published by the Fire Rescue Corps in the public interest or in some important interest. I am not convinced that this ambiguities of terms will not cause problems in practice and will protect the intervening firefighters who have issued the record. We were discussing here yesterday, or I was pointing out how difficult it would be after the intervention of the Constitutional Court case-law for that particular decisive member. The formulation that was in the interpellation, the response to the interpelation, didn't make me feel any better. Although I have learned from the Minister that he supports the amendment, he does not understand how the firefighter will determine when he changes the context of vague terms in relation to case law. How are we gonna do that? How should a firefighter manage to perceive the context necessary for the possibility of closing down the intervention? Won't a firefighter risk a penalty? And so on and so forth. It is certainly beneficial for firefighters to take record of sharp interventions and then continue to deal with them, for example, for training new firefighters, lessons from previous mistakes, work on the tactics of the intervening intervention and so on. But perhaps we would not like such records and information to be presented to the public without rules under vague public interest or other important interest. I am, of course, concerned with protecting intervening firefighters, including those who will not know whether they are protected by law or not. Who shall be responsible for the publication of the alert? Other components of the integrated rescue system are also involved. I don't want to repeat myself, but maybe these are questions that could have been solved by a standard process of government adoption, not an MP amendment on the Fire Rescue Corps. Perhaps in this case we would also learn the opinion of the Office for Personal Data Protection, which I am also of course interested in. Similarly, the Minister has verbally assured us on the committee that insurance companies with the proposed procedure, that is, through the administrative simplification presented here, agree, but it is not on paper anywhere. Does all the insurance companies involved agree or just some? Verifying this claim that we can trust, but we don't have to, because of that, I don't. With the elected procedure, the Minister and the Member may have undermined the good intention and idea for facilitating the hard work of firefighters, which I think is a shame. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-007-350.u3	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. With a factual remark, I had Mr Ondráček here, so if he is interested, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-007-350.u4	Thank you, Mr President. You must have heard a similar debate yesterday at the morning interview. It sometimes has to do with the fact that repetition is the mother of wisdom. What is public and, if necessary, what is important interest and what is used for this amendment, I think we have explained enough here. I, on the example of Bohumín, when the work of the firefighters they do is necessary to explain sometimes even to the lay public, who perceives problems more emotionally, of course, because it can touch them in some way, and sometimes it is necessary to explain the work sufficiently so that the citizens also know. And unfortunately, it is very annoying that the media, which are often on the scene, will vote for these very people, and then with their biased information, harm the good work of the police - sorry, Fire Rescue Corps, I apologize. But it's the same thing with the police. [[13.30 hours]] So the reason was clearly given here, and I think we've explained it. And the concept of public interest, or important interest, is also in other provisions of the paragraphs known from our legislation. So let's not find anything very important in this. I don't really understand what this fellow is about, and I just thought it was important to draw your attention to it again as part of the review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-007-350.u5	Thank you. Mr Růžička has yet to sign up for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-007-350.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just briefly clarify what Mr Žáček said. I beg you, the firefighter is supposed to put out and rescue, and then he's supposed to think about how he's documenting the data for the insurance company. And it's not like he's gonna document first, wonder if he just did it right, and people are gonna die. So that's the first thing that's completely understandable. By entering into this law instead of an accident - what is currently being reimbursed from insurance companies - or intervention. Simple case. I'm gonna park my car in the village, drive down to my pond, get firefighters arriving, it's not a car accident, it's gonna be pulled out of the pond, but they're not gonna get it paid off by the insurance company because it wasn't a car accident. That's all, please. Don't look at anything in it. There's been a lot of talk about Bohumín here. Those firefighters just can't defend themselves by releasing the video footage. So please, it's very simple. That the Minister has given it as a parliamentary proposal - he has given it as a parliamentary proposal, he is entitled to it, let us approve it, so that the firefighters can make their work easier as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-007-350.u7	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate. Mr Ondráček, Mr Ondráček, de facto. Okay. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-007-350.u8	Me for a short time, but useless of my colleague Růžička. I've been an investigator in a group of traffic accidents for several years. What you are now, Mr. Ambassador, mentioned - she would have been an accident because it is an incident in road traffic. If the car was standing in that square, it was communications and it was badly secured by the driver, so it would be qualified as a car accident. But we would find a lot of other examples that would be where the firefighters intervene and it's an intervention, not a participation in a car accident.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-007-350.u9	Thank you, and if no one else is reporting, and I really don't see anyone anymore at the moment, I am ending the debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in the final words after the debate. If not, we would proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-007-350.u10	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, the Security Committee, in its resolution No 191 of the 44th Committee meeting held on 18 November 2020 on the proposal by Mr Jan Hamáček to issue an amendment to Act No. 320/2015, on the Fire Rescue Corps, adopted the following resolution: I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to vote in the third reading for the amendment referred to in the Houses of the Press 794/4 under this voting procedure: 1. voting in Group A; 2. amendment in Group B; 3. voting in the bill as a whole; II. adopt this opinion on the amendments in the order proposed by the voting procedure. Group A amendment recommending the opinion, Group B recommending the opinion; III. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies and empowers me, as rapporteur, to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-007-350.u11	Thank you. That was therefore the rapporteur's report. We will therefore vote in the order of Group A, which is the resolution of the Security Committee, the proposal of Group B, which is the proposal of Mr Růžička, and then the vote as a whole. The procedure is simple. I'm hearing an application for a check-out, so I'll have you checked out before we vote on a procedure. I ask you to re-enlist with your cards, and when our numbers are stable, we will vote on the procedure, as approved by the committee. I see Members who are still running, some of us are still applying... So it looks like the number of entries has settled. I'm opening the procedure vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposed procedure. Who's against the proposed procedure? Thank you. In the vote number 129, 87 Members and Members are finally registered, 85 are for the proposed procedure, against no one. So we'll proceed with the procedure proposed by the committee. I will ask the rapporteur to always present to us the proposal on which we will vote, or briefly summarize it and deliver an opinion. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-007-350.u12	I would say, Mr President, that legislative technical amendments have not been read. The amendment of Group A to be put to the vote is that firefighters will have the right to have information from the information system of infectious diseases and will be able to publish a record that they will take at the point of intervention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-007-350.u13	Thank you. The committee's opinion, please. [[Positive.]] Thank you. The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I've started voting number 130. I ask who is in favour of this amendment. Who's against it? Thank you. In the 130 vote, 88 Members and Members, for 77, abstained from 11, no one opposed. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-007-350.u14	And now the letter "B" is my proposal to specify the effectiveness of this law on the first day of the calendar month following the day of its publication.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-04-ps2017-072-04-007-350.u15	Thank you. The committee's opinion, please. [[Agreed.]] Thank you. The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I've started voting number 131. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. The number 131 vote includes 88 Members and Members, for 77, against no one. The proposal was also accepted. And that should be all the amendments. Isn't that right? [[Yes.]] Well, thank you, then. All proposals have been voted on. We will now proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with Mr Jan Hamáček's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 320/2015, on the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended by Act No. 183/2017 Coll., pursuant to House press 794, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[Act on the Fire Rescue Corps]] That was the motion for a resolution. I'm opening the vote. I said, who's for the law? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 132, 98 Members and Members are registered, for 81, against no one. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank the rapporteur, thank you, draftsman. That concludes the third reading of this bill as well as the discussion of this point. And since we still have some time left, we're going to continue, and that's the point.
