ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u1	509. Proposal for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the period of emergency I shall repeat the procedure envisaged by the Rules of Procedure. There is only one debate, i.e. the general debate. It is not possible to apply factual remarks. In the debate, the Member may speak only twice and I have asked the service to monitor any repeated applications. The House may make a proposal, but I do not have such a proposal yet, limiting speaking time to up to 5 minutes. Any limitation of speaking time shall also apply to Members responsible for bringing the club's opinion on the matter. The withdrawal of persons with priority rights shall be without prejudice to. Accompanying resolutions shall not be excluded. So that is the procedure, and since I have no proposal to shorten speaking time, we will proceed so far that the time will be unlimited. To this point, you have received the House document 6611 and please refer the proposal to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Andrej Babiš, personally. [[Noise in the hall.]] Mr President, I'll give you my word in a moment when it's quiet here. Just a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm in the hall. Thank you. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u2	So hello, thank you for your word. Mr President, honourable Members, I am before you today on behalf of the Government on behalf of the Government requesting an extension of the emergency situation, which the Government has declared by resolution 957 of 30 September 2020, an emergency situation for the territory of the Czech Republic due to a health risk in relation to the detection of coronavirus in the Czech Republic, for a period from 00.00 on 5 October 2020 for a period of 30 days. Thus, the government's state of emergency ends on 3 November 2020. The sole interest of the government and the reason for extending the emergency situation are, of course, the protection of the health and life of our citizens. In the context of the current situation, the government assessed that the epidemiological situation in the Czech Republic is not at all favourable. We are still registering a high number of positively diagnosed patients, increasing numbers of hospitalizations, as well as significant interventions in risk groups of the population. The assessment of the situation shall be carried out on the basis of analyses of the relevant parameters. These are, for example, epidemiological criteria, daily additions to positively diagnosed patients, weekly and 14-day trends, hospitalization rates or the presence of community dissemination according to the reports of regional health care stations. Any measures in the fight against the virus are beginning to show at the rate of spread of the disease at a 10-day distance. We are still accelerating the growth of hospitalized patients and the number of beds needed in hospitals is rapidly decreasing. Although, based on Wednesday and Thursday data, the pandemic seems to be slowly weakening, but mobility data suggest that while people's activity continues to slow down, it is still very slow. The use of public transport fell by 58 per cent according to Apple, while in March it was about 80 per cent. The presence of people in the retail sector decreased by 57 percent, while in the spring it was between 61 and 79 percent. At the workplace, and we still appeal to the home office, now 32 percent of the people are down, while in the spring it was 45 percent. And on Tuesday, the test positivity also positivity jumped up to 34.4 percent. Even thanks to data on people's mobility, but also due to the still high numbers of the infected, it is clear that we are far from winning our fight. The epidemic is in a faulty phase and therefore the conditions for declaring an emergency are still fulfilled under Article 5 of the Constitutional Security Act of the Czech Republic. That is precisely why I am standing before you today with a proposal and a request for an extension of the emergency situation. We need to get the outbreak to slow down as soon as possible, protect our citizens, risk groups, and prevent the collapse of hospital capacities. We also need to reduce the reproductive number R below 1. Only then can we consider the gradual easing of government measures. In view of the adverse epidemiological situation in the Czech Republic, the government has taken further measures that will not be valid without extending the emergency situation. These are key measures aimed at bringing the epidemic under control. The current measures consist of the following restrictions: strict restrictions on the free movement of persons between 21 and 5 a.m., restrictions on the free movement of persons between 5.00 and 21.00, a regulation for employers to make maximum use of remote work for workers, so-called home office, prohibition of attendance at all types of schools, prohibition of the retail sale of goods and sales for the provision of services, except in exceptional cases, the closure of catering facilities; termination of artistic and sporting events, restrictions on the provision of accommodation services; prohibition of drinking alcoholic beverages in public places, prohibition of sales in marketplaces, marketplaces and mobile premises, with the exception of farmers' markets; prohibition of retail sales and sales and the provision of services at the premises on Sundays throughout the day and on Mondays to Saturdays between 20.00 and 5.00 in the morning with exceptions, prohibition of visits to health establishments and residential social services, the obligation to carry breathing protection devices in specified cases; Regulation of employment obligations for medical, social or pedagogical students. I would like to give examples from other countries, which do not have such high increases in the number of infected people per population, but have also chosen similar measures, to so many discussed and media often criticized curfews. For example, in France, President Macron has announced that a completed form is required for every out-of-home movement with a reason for leaving home, and no travel between regions is permitted. The curfew was already in effect between 21 and 6 o'clock. At the same time, the curfew is also applied in Slovenia. Similarly, it is in Spain, Belgium, Greece. In neighboring Poland, even persons under 16 years of age can only be in public from 8 a.m. to 16 p.m. with an adult. In connection with the extension of the emergency situation, there are naturally questions as to how far this will affect the state of the economy. First of all, we do not anticipate the closure of the economy to the extent that it was in the spring. We are not counting on initiating the closure of industrial enterprises. Please, everyone in the media area is talking about a lockdown, and no one defined it. Here's an article about the second lockdown in France. That word never really defined, yes, closure, and in France the second lockdown means they closed restaurants and bars. [[11.30 hours]] And if anyone is still talking about Israel, please, it is necessary to really get acquainted with what Israel has done because it was said: they have done a total lockdown. It's not true. According to our honorary consul David Hebký in the second wave of lockdown, all so-called "the" were opened in Israel. manufactures, production in individual production plants did not stop during September, it was only recommended that they comply with the applicable regulations of the Ministry of Health. The manufacturing industry, pharmaceutical industry, food production, chemical industry, military industry, hi-tech remained open. No tests were required for employees for the presence of COVID-19. We're thinking about maybe supporting the antigen tests in some way, but I'm gonna get to that. So the essence of so-called. Israel's lockdown, which everyone here repeats and calls to him, consisted mainly of limiting contact between people within the family, relatives, known and limiting movement at a distance of one kilometer from the house and traveling to work. So please, if anyone is speaking that there was a total lockdown in Israel, it's not true, there was never such a lockdown in Israel and Israeli companies continued to produce. Let's go back to what happened in the spring. The production of some major industrial firms was interrupted, and if this happened, this was not only due to the epidemic, but also because the sales of their production fell, not on domestic markets, but on foreign markets. The biggest companies in automotiv are part of global companies and they eventually decide what will be produced here. We never shut down the production of the Škoda Auto, the Volkswagen decided. And if you look at the intake of Antiviruses, it's the automotive that's in the first place, total to billions of dollars. We are an export economy and therefore every failure on foreign markets will quickly affect the production of our companies because we are an important supplier of components. This concerns, as I said before, the whole automotive sector. We need to realise how many of our companies depend on developments abroad. If we can see that for example. Germany's automotivation has recorded a drop in production by a third in this eight months, so it naturally affects our companies as well. Although their production is declining, which is lower than last year, it recovers very quickly and e.g. The biggest Czech manufacturer in automotiv Škoda Auto reports better results for September 2020 than in 2019. The whole decline of the sector should not reach 20 percent, which is above expectations in the spring. I firmly believe that an approved new method of testing based on antigen tests will help our economy to detect infectious patients. OKD has been using these tests since June of this year and up to these days they have captured six positive patients, thus avoiding another outbreak of the disease. We will use the antigen tests mainly, and those tests should arrive today and immediately, I suppose, by Sunday at the latest, on Monday we will start testing mainly for the protection of seniors and risk groups of the population that are most at risk of COVID-19 infection. Our government has approved funds for 10 million antigen tests and, of course, has approved a reward for doctors who will be testing, amounting to CZK 200, which is a total of CZK 2 billion so far and it can be assumed that we will be using these antigen tests. I'm very glad he's doing it, for example. Pity Auto, and I think good management and good corporate owners should do it for their own good. We're thinking about how to encourage these antigen tests in companies to do them so they care about their employees going to work, and they won't be at risk of being infected. Of course, the government will discuss this and I am thinking about some motivation for companies, we discussed this within the NERV. Data are not yet available on the development of the Czech industry for the whole third quarter, which will not be available until next week. In the last three months, July, August, September, industrial production is about a tenth lower than last year, and that's not a bad result, knowing, of course, what hit us, the COVID-19 pandemic. Basically the same development can be recorded in the construction industry. There's also a drop of about a tenth. This is also influenced by an exceptional level of public investment in transport infrastructure. It is civil engineering and state spending in this sector that help to keep key sectors in relatively good shape with regard to employment. At the same time, we can see a very positive development in agriculture, where a higher harvest of main crops has been achieved than last year. The most affected part of the service sector, where in the second quarter - again no newer data available - was reduced by one fifth due to total closure mainly in April and partly also in March and May, but in the summer months this sector worked without greater limitations, and thus the loss of this sector levelled slightly. The actual development of gross domestic product this year. During the first half of this year, gross domestic product fell by less than 3% compared to the first half of last year. I expect year-round GDP decline data to be around 6.5 to 7 percent, as forecasted by the Ministry of Finance. The development of the economy should be assessed soberly, without catastrophic predictions. Many industries are currently running and will continue to do so, energy, chemistry, electrical industry, food industry, and a decent pace of self-motivation. As well as running some services, IT, financial services, consultancy, records report business online, e-shops etc. That is why I say that we should avoid catastrophic predictions. It is also not good because we are creating a climate of fear for the future, and this is naturally also passed on to consumer market developments and to investment tendencies. The government is trying to help. We have approved investment programmes and the SFDI budget has never been as high as it is next year in the field of infrastructure. We are building on this year... in the end next year's investment of 187 billion, most in history, and this year, when we will eventually be able to increase expenditure on transport infrastructure towards 2019 by more than a third. At the same time, we are launching support for corporate investment, accelerating depreciation, strengthening investment guarantees and changing investment incentives. However, the main government measures aimed at operating aid, e.g. compensation bonus, Antivirus, COVID - Rent, COVID - Bus, COVID - Loans, COVID - Culture, COVID - Sport, COVID - Accommodation, higher infirmary, remission of payments, deferral of payments of VAT, social insurance, etc. These measures are intended to maintain the purchasing capacity of the population and to contribute to the resolution of the company's financial situation. According to data from the Ministry of Industry and Trade the total direct and indirect support of the Ministry of Industry was still more than CZK 50 billion. Likewise, the estimated total support of companies and the CFI for almost CZK 200 billion is, of course, the support of employees. In addition, the guarantee programmes continue, under which companies will draw additional tens of billions. It's harder to do in the current situation. This is where we behave like other European countries. They also open programs in tens of billions of euros to keep the economy running and compensate for corporate losses. Even these governments are aware that market developments cannot be completely reversed. Despite the massive support, and I would like to emphasise this, we are not different from the European Union's developed countries in those relative terms. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] We're still discussing debt here. I would just like to remind you that since Sobotkův's government came in, when I was Minister of Finance, we've reduced the debt from 41.3 to 29 last year. If the debt is growing now, it's logical in the pandemic. But the latest Eurostat figures, I think from 22 October, are saying exactly what we are saying here all the time, that in 2020 we will be - and this is the European Union's estimate - in debt in the general government sector at 39.4%, so substantially lower than in 2013. So if the opposition here is talking about debt, she was in debt in normal times. Normal times. [[11.40 hours]] So I fundamentally reject this, and our debt is one of the smallest in Europe. It is far below the level achieved in Western European countries. Germany has 71 - I repeat, with us 39 - France 117, United Kingdom 93 %, Netherlands 59, Austria 84, Slovakia 63. In these countries, the share of debt in GDP is growing as it is in our country, but of course we can hardly compare ourselves with small countries like Estonia, where there is a completely different economy and where there are two million inhabitants. Most of our measures are planned by the end of the year, so what we do and how we pump money into the economy, we do to start our economy in order to maintain employment to keep people's incomes. So these measures are planned by the end of this year. We need to address the crisis situation, yet we are already thinking about the next period and we are still counting on massive support for investment. Expanding the programme of bank guarantees by promoting employment through cursarbeit and further increasing expenditure on research, development and innovation. And we want to hold all the employees, and that's why I came up with the amendment, where we cut taxes for all employees by 7 percent. This is where the retirement debate took place. Yes, pension reform, that's for sure, you can blame us for pension reform, it hasn't been done in decades. And that's a matter that needs to be agreed upon by all of us. And that has a solution? I'm sure there's a solution! Everyone can do it on the expense page, you need to deal with the income. And that, of course, is about employers, employees, and the state. But there's a retirement committee, everyone's represented, so the proposals that are, so far, are on the expense page. And there's elections on that income, so next year, not even in one year, so I'm assuming that every party and movement will have their own tax policy. To those pensions, please, the figures are clear: 2013 for pensions went 383 billion, 2021 will go 537 billion. So it's 153 billion more. And if the average pension 2013 was 10 913 then next year will be 15 336, that is an increase of 49 percent. So I think the pensions are clear. It's always been our priority, seniors, their better life. And in that ranking in Europe, even though we're increasing, unlike our predecessors, it's still not enough. Our government needs time. In this situation, we put out the problems created, we do operational, day-to-day operations, and this, of course, is draining us time and space to look for active measures. Yet we are already working on strategic measures of a medium- and long-term economic nature. The Vice Prime Minister for the economy Havlíček and his team are preparing to restart an economy based on the transformation of industry, energy and transport. The new economic strategy will be based on added value, significantly higher levels of use of new technologies, new programmes for start-ups and spin-offs. The same team completes a recovery plan based on digitalisation, smart investment, strengthening science, education and the labour market, all linked to trends associated with decarbonization and climate objectives. Despite the fact that we are going through the most demanding period of modern history and have had to reduce economic activity in an unprecedented way, it is clear that the good condition of our economy before the crisis, combined with operational support during the pandemic and the implementation of strategic measures of a long-term nature, can be strengthened from the crisis. We have good assumptions about this. And I firmly believe that. In the light of the above, the Government requests pursuant to Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. Whereas: 2 The Constitutional Act on Security of the Czech Republic The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the approval of the extension of the emergency period until 3 December 2020. At the same time, I would like to ask you all to forget about politics and all mutual animosities right now. Pandemic crises, like now, are not just we, but also most of Europe and the rest of the world. I'm sure it's not the best time for political disputes and arguments. We will defeat the corona and protect the health and lives of our citizens only together. In the spring, we finally made it, and thanks to that, we stopped the pandemic among the first countries in Europe. So let's try to do this again now that the coronavirus has returned even stronger than in the spring. Feel free to critically and constructively criticize our government, it's your right, and we're certainly not flawless. Let's just pull together again, please. It is also our duty to the public. We can't beat the corona without it. I thank you for your attention and your understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u3	That was the Prime Minister, and now, before the debate is opened, I have a request for the speech of the new Minister of Health, Jan Blatný. So, Minister, is this your House Prime Minister, the performance? [[- Yes.]] Okay, well, we're looking forward to hearing from you. So, please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity to speak here. I would like to add some specific information to what the Prime Minister said, because I think it is essential for decisions as well as for us as for you. I have two points I'd like to touch. One is acute epidemiological development and one is the capacity of the bed system in the Czech Republic. As far as acute epidemiological developments are concerned, it should be said that the objective truth is that the Czech Republic is still and significantly underway. Community spread of disease. In other words, the disease is spreading across society, and although, as I mention it, there are certain risk groups, we cannot argue that it is not going on comprehensively. They seem to have the last measure, and now please really take my word for it, the great potential for spreading to slow down. But only if we strictly follow them. At the moment, and the Prime Minister here said it, we are at the crucial point of the break, where in the next two weeks the situation could start to improve and slow down the rate of virus spread in the population, and this is absolutely essential, and I will get to that in a moment, which is to reduce pressure on hospital beds, where I will try to define in a moment how serious the problem is. Why is that, why should you believe me, why is something like this happening? It is precisely because the measures referred to by the Prime Minister and were taken 14. 10th, they are now gradually beginning to manifest themselves. Ten to fourteen days minimum to show something so that we can capture it as a significant and permanent, statistically significant change. There has been a decrease in the value of the reproductive number, which is currently between 1.1 and 1.2, and - this is essential - there is no further increase in the percentage of positive tests relative to the number of tests. I say it doesn't increase intentionally, but it is still high, which is consistent with the community's spread. Although it may seem strange, but also the last value, respectively. from the penultimate day, over 15 600 newly diagnosed persons, which is a huge number, seems to be a sign - and now please listen to me again - of a decline in growth. Not a decline as such, but a decline in growth, and thus a possible braking process of the epidemic. Then it's going into the reproductive number. However, developments in the coming days or weeks will be crucial. And in order for what I wish for right now and what I believe is true to really manifest itself, we need about two more weeks. [[11.50 hours]] So the question is whether we're winning when everything's actually starting to get better. I'm afraid not. On the contrary, if we stop taking the measures that are in force now, then the effect will not come, and what is absolutely essential, and I will return to that in a moment, we will reach the limit of our bed capacities, which are still not exhausted. The problem is a large number of infected ones, where even a small reproductive number is a problem. Let me give you an example. If we have a thousand infected, the reproductive number is going to be 1.5, then it's going to increase to 1,500, so it's only 500. If we have a million infected and the reproductive number is only 1.1, we're going to increase by 100,000. That's the problem we're facing right now. That is why it is absolutely necessary at the moment to bring down the burden of the health system with a reproductive number under 1. How long can slowing the epidemic in this state last? That is a perfectly legitimate question, and that is, after all, why the government is asking you to extend the emergency. Once again, it is up to you to comply with the mandatory measures. My personal opinion: it is not necessary to introduce further measures now, but it is essential to follow the ones that have been introduced. It is very important, and this is one of those positive reports that acute developments do not point to high-risk scenarios so far. You may have all noticed that a number of websites are full of different prediction models. Since yesterday, the Ministry of Health has begun to make intensive efforts to communicate with those who create these models, which will certainly increase the credibility of such predictions. And we seem to be moving somewhere between an optimal and high-risk scenario. That's good. We can't let that change. A fundamental problem that could complicate all of this is the problem with the number of infected seniors. It is precisely because we have reached a situation where their number from around 10 percent in September has risen to 14 percent in October, but, once again, we are on specific numbers, from around 4.5,000 positive people we are getting to 25,000 people, so it is clear that this is a fundamentally risk group. If we don't start protecting her, and from next week's testing will be started selectively in the places where the seniors stay, and measures will be taken to separate positives and negatives from each other and reduce further spread in this community, so if we don't protect this part of the population, this part of the population will be a problem that will not only be positive for the disease, but unlike young people, where the rate of hospitalization is about 4%, so for seniors it's up to 25 percent, it means that these people are starting to fill bed facilities extremely quickly and the whole system gets on edge. For your information from yesterday: there were 7 281 people in hospitals with coronavirus, of which 998 in intensive care units and 546 with artificial pulmonary ventilation or extracorporeal oxygenation. The second thing that is a little bit problematic, and I say this deliberately euphemistically, is that even though we have sufficient bed capacity so far, we are beginning to get into trouble with the service of these bed capacities, in other words, we have a lack of medical personnel. The capacity of beds is quite sufficient in the Czech Republic, but some regions are reaching the limits of their possibilities. This should start coordinating central dispatch from next week, which will be able to redistribute individual patients between devices and between regions. Great help and great gratitude belong to the army here. The reason for the reduced capacity is therefore not fundamentally and so far lack of beds, but a lack of staff. Currently, the Ministry of Health has issued recommendations or measures to stop so-called elective investigations and operations, which means that what can be postponed has been postponed, the planned increase in the number of beds up to almost 12,000, of which more than 2,000 beds with artificial pulmonary ventilation. This increase will take some time, because patients who have been recanted, who have delayed care, cannot be recanted immediately. I've already talked about the National Dispatch of Bed Care. And at the end of the day, only one such point, which I'm sure everyone cares about. Is there a threat of exhaustion of this system? In principle, yes, because every system has its limits. The good news is, it's not happening yet. What threatens the system, and I repeat what I have already said, is a lack of personnel, not a lack of technology and beds. One of the reasons for the emergency situation, which I think needs to be clearly extended, is the possibility of supplementing staff in non-standard ways such as doctors and NLZP from other departments in a given hospital, students of the medical faculty, health schools, doctors working outside the system and so on. Finally, I would like to answer one question very briefly, which is often repeated, whether people who will be and will not be treated will be selected in any way. They won't. In no way is it medically necessary or possible, and in the current situation, if we comply with what we agreed together, the capacity of the bed system will not be exhausted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u5	Well, Minister, you're done. And now, before I open the debate, I remind you that under Paragraph 109 (1) of the Treaty, In the case of a short hearing on a proposal for an extension of the emergency situation, no factual remarks may be made in the debate, the Member may speak not more than twice in the debate, and the House may decide to limit speaking time for up to 5 minutes, while the limitation of speaking time also applies to Members authorised to refer to the matter to the Member's club's opinion. I would merely add that what I have read does not concern the restriction of the so-called priority right to speak, that is not affected, nor are accompanying resolutions excluded. So I am now opening the debate. I have a number of Members who have priority rights. So just to get your bearings, because you can't see it on the board, I'm going to read who's first in the debate. Mr. Vít Rakušan, Chairman of the STAN, will be the first to speak, and Okamura is here, so it is actually me. [[The gayness across the O.R.]] Then there is Jakub Michálek, then there is Jana Černochová, then Ivan Bartoš, then there is President Pekarová Adamová and there is Mr Radim Fiala. Those are priority rights. I'll be the first to request the performance of President STAN Vít Rakušan. It's not my fault I'm running a meeting, so I had to read myself. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister. Dear Minister, first of all, let me greet you, thank you for your words and wish you every success in this difficult time, because these will not be your achievements, these will be the achievements of the Czech Republic, these will be achievements and bonuses for the citizens of the Czech Republic. And I very much hope that what will, above all, improve significantly after your arrival, will be communication. Communication towards the public, communication towards the Chamber of Deputies and general presentation of government measures with which you come. I think that's probably what it takes most. [[12.00 hours]] Because we are at a time when the word exponential is still being tilted in public space. Most of us aren't mathematicians. Some of us have opened up old math books and we've been looking at what we're talking about here. I'm going to try one very simple layman's explanation of the exponential and insult all maths. At first, nothing happens. Then there's nothing going on for a while, and then there's still nothing going on, and when it starts to happen, we're in real trouble and we can't stop it. This is why development needs to be modeled. That is why I am a little disappointed that we do not see any specific model in the explanatory report that we have received as Members. We see the words, we see the tables, I'm afraid I didn't find any of them in our explanatory report. So I had to look into what graphs actually exist, what predictions are available in public space, and I chose three predictive graphs of real experts from the Centre for Modeling of Biological and Social Processes, the abbreviation of this organization is BISOP, and these three models were presented 28. 10. There's a situation on graph one if we let the pandemic and the epidemic take place. [[shows]] And that is what needs to be made clear to all those who refuse to take any action against the pandemic. If we let the pandemic go, there will be 10,000 deaths, anyway, by Christmas. Screenplay two shows a situation that is likely at present. [[shows another graph]] This is a model of how current government measures work, where according to BISOP researchers, social contacts in our public have now decreased to 50 percent. If this were to continue in this way, there will probably be a fall after half November, and the burden on health establishments will not be as enormous as it will be in the first weeks of November. The third model shows a situation in which we would reach a decision of some major lockdown in the Czech Republic, although I agree that the term can be interpreted in various ways. [[once again shows the plenary]] At this point, social contacts, according to BISOP researchers, would be reduced to 65 percent. Interestingly, however, we achieved this figure in those spring months with the measures that worked at the time without calling it a major lockdown. One interesting fact can be deduced from this. The trust of people in government measures, the willingness to respect them, is shown to be statistically lower in autumn than it was in the spring months. And that's where we're getting to the fundamental problem that the government just has to fix. It must correct it when it asks us to extend the emergency situation, when it asks us to touch on the fundamental rights of the people guaranteed by the Constitution. The government simply lost people's confidence that the measures and their observance would bring something to the government for its measures and after its summer turmoil and sleep. I don't want to talk in general. I would like to say a few points that I think trust not only in government, but political decisions can really increase us all. First, do not take any measures that we do not know why we are really doing them, and we do not know how to explain them clearly, transparently and intelligibly to people. We cannot simply answer them why we have taken this measure and what it will do to keep it in society. Secondly, let's invite real experts to the crisis crew. Let's invite people - like from BISOP, like from other organizations - who know how to do predictive models, they can model. Let's invite mathematicians, invite sociologists, and make a crisis crew really instead of a crisis and professional decision-making. Thirdly, let us set up a set of clear indicators, transparent, published, according to which government decisions are governed, so that we can be sure that we do not follow the feelings that we follow the facts that we follow the models and follow the opinions of experts. Fourthly, it is necessary to establish clearly how the effectiveness of the measures will be measured. This means what number indicates exactly the fact that the measure that we have implemented has a real effect. Next, I think we should take an example from countries where something has succeeded. And in Slovakia, Prime Minister Matovič was able to do one very good thing - to involve self-government effectively, to involve effectively volunteers, to arouse public interest and the desire and willingness of people to help, as we were able to do in the Czech Republic in the spring months. At the same time, we need to be able to communicate effectively and clearly, so that the government can talk to us as adults, take a little less of the military diction and explain and focus on effective promotion and world action. Once again, it was successful in Slovakia. Not only does the President speak to her nation more often and more effectively, but important Slovak personalities have also been involved, the trustworthy faces behind which the story of life is, and they communicate regularly and clearly with people, and they simply trust that the measures that the government is coming with make sense. The essential thing is not to hide and lie and act predictablely. I will no longer return to the Papalasian mannerists that we have witnessed here and which have stood in place of Minister Prymula, but let us be credible, respect these measures ourselves, give the public open and transparent information and no longer lie to it, because it is absolutely essential for the trust of people in the system, in our whole country and its functioning. It is also important to prepare for a post-covide period, not only in economic terms. We need to be prepared that there will be significant social tension, that there may be various populist sentiments in society, that there may be a tendency to a simple and radical solution, because at a time when people will feel disappointed by the government, that they have not met their expectations that they have left them, that they have not been helped enough, so at that point it is really necessary to prepare for how we will live in post-covide times, professionally, to define how we will work in the social field, what dangers they can come about. Let's talk about it with sociologists. Let's talk about it with experts. And then often ask what effective communication is. That we're still blaming you and not bringing you anything. It already exists in the public space, and there are many examples. It is not just a plan by Pavel Řehák - 32 steps to face the possible second wave of the pandemic crisis - which was available to the government at the end of May this year, and out of those 32 steps, it was only possible to meet 10 and half. But they're also very good orders from the corporate sector. For example, this is what an internal measure of one private company looks like, how employees are supposed to behave when they're going to be the reproductive number 1, 1.3, 1.2 - clearly, clearly, for one look completely understandable, what people are supposed to do at a time. [[shows material]] Why don't we see something like that on government servers? Why do people in the Czech Republic not have such a thing in one click? [[12.10 hours]] In fact, it turns out that in this difficult time under weak leadership, even the government itself has often failed. Here one at first glance a complex graph, but he is printed whole, he is otherwise able to click over parts that show people - again work from the private sector, not government lines - how to behave if he is infected, that he met someone who is infected, a precise procedure when he informs him of hygiene and how to simply behave responsibly. [[shows]] If we call people to account, then we must give them clear instructions on what responsible behavior is. And that's the government's job. This is the open communication that we are constantly calling for, and we are told in the answers and in the interpelations that the government officials do not really know what we want them to do, and actually what we are always annoying about. Around us outside, although we may not see it, but surely there is a real emergency in medical facilities. I'm not talking about the legal instrument right now, I'm talking about the real state of things. Yes, our medical facilities are in a real state of emergency, and we, as Members, must somehow go across the street. So we're ready to talk about extending the emergency, but, of course, at that point, if we're restricting people's constitutional rights, we want something from the government. And I would just like the government to be able to respond to the whole segment of the various measures, recommendations and questions that we're asking her here. I would very much like the Minister to answer me if the BISOP forecasts are consistent with those of the government. Unfortunately, in the explanatory memorandum, we did not have a graph to map the situation. Therefore, please let us show that at this time we are able to communicate, and the decisions we make are not emotional, they are based on data, they are responsible, competent political decisions. Then we can regain people's lost trust in making decisions that are meant to be made in times of crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u7	I shall now request the replacement of the President of the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u8	Here I am again! Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, today we stand before the government's request to extend the emergency for another month. In the spring of this year, we very loyally supported everything the government asked for and proposed. There was no data. No one knew what we were facing, and we agreed that preventive, however hard and superficial measures were better than doing nothing and waiting. We have never questioned anything, and to this day we do not question the fact that a new virus like influenza virus and other infections can actually aggravate the course of some diseases and is one of the causes of premature death in so-called. polymorbid people, and in the spring there was a suspicion that he could kill himself. That is why we have asked, and since then, we have been continuously asking the government to analyse the state and assess the risks and risks of the spread of SARS-CoV-2. And to our surprise, the opposite happened. If the government had any numbers important to manage the spread of the infection, it kept them secret, such as data on where and at what percentage the infection spread. Why? Because this data would interfere with government proposals for large-scale measures. However, data on the real, actual risk of the virus are needed in order to give a responsible consideration to measures so that we do no more harm than good. If there is a danger of thousands of people dying here, there must be other measures than if there is a virus that kills only in a relatively thin combination of other diseases a relatively small proportion of sick people. If that were the case, then measures cannot prevent the normal life of the vast majority of citizens who are not at risk. I stress that I refuse to be negative, and I add that it is not us, the SPD, but also politicians who should assess these risks, but should do so on the basis of clear, verifiable data by experts, and that is unfortunately not what is happening. In the interpellation of the previous Minister of Health, I asked if autopsies were carried out on deceased people who reported deaths with covid, and whether we have verified data, how many people are dying of covid and how many people are dying of other diseases or injuries and just being positive. We have not yet received these numbers. The Ministry only responded with an alibi statement, and I quote that the statistics include the deaths of all people who have tested positive for COVID-19, regardless of the causes of their deaths. End of quote. In other, but more accurate words, statistics published by the Ministry of Health daily by the media do not say that the deceased died of covid, but that the deceased were tested positively. I spoke recently about the fact that the information in the media about the actual autopsies carried out, such as the statements of two pathologists from Prague's Na Bulovka Hospital, we know that the deceased referred to in the statistics as the deceased on covid, who were autopsied, was not evidently the death of COVID-19 itself, but even of the three autopsies, they did not have this virus in their bodies. We were able to trace the report from the National Reference Laboratory for Flu and Non-flu-respiratory Viruses on the website of the Institute of Health Information and Statistics, UHIS, and states this - I quote: "The investigation of autopsy material on SARS-CoV-2 by the end of September was positive seizures of SARS-CoV-2 sporadic. 17 materials were examined in August, always with negative results. In September 9 autopsy materials without the capture of SARS-CoV-2. Two materials positive. In October 9 materials negative, 6 positive. In one case positivity detected only in myocardial. DCD materials and blood were negative for the virus." End of quote. The above autopsy numbers are, right, marginal. We would need to have autopsy reports best from all the 2,000 deceased with covid, so that we can truthfully tell where we really are, but it is not our fault that such research is not done on purpose. But the data indicates a double. One is that the Ministry of Health does not seek any general information about the causes of death, and that at least where there was an autopsy, death either has no connection to COVIDEM-19, or only remote, as well as influenza viruses and other infections. This fact was confirmed at an expert conference called What We Know and Don't Know About COVID-19 organized by Charles University Director of the Institute of Health Information and Statistics, UHIS, Ladislav Dušek, which estimates that 60 percent of people whose deaths are in coronavirus statistics in the Czech Republic did not die primarily at COVID-19. Most of them had other chronic diseases, often more than one. Šárka Daňková of the UHIS also pointed out the case where the doctor identified COVID-19 as the main cause of death, but also stated in the sheet that the person died after the fall, suffered multiple rib fractures and his heart failed. In fact, we do not know from publicly available sources any case in which only SARS-CoV-2 virus infection is proven to fall under man's control in the Czech Republic. In mid - April, the media reported the death of a 44 - year - old man with COVID-19, whose cause of death was to be COVID-19. According to the doctor of the clinic anesthesia, resuscitation and intensive care of the 1st Faculty of Medicine of Charles University and General Faculty Hospital in Prague Martin Balík later managed to detect malignant carcinoma of the left kidney. The Institute of Health Information and Statistics compiled data on deceased patients tested positively on COVID-19 on 1 May according to age and chronic diseases. Among people over 60 years of age, more than 70 percent of cardiovascular disease, such as high blood pressure, was over 80 percent in 80. And what about the world? According to the most recent numbers of the US CDC, which is a federal agency of the United States under the Ministry of Health and Humanities, mortality, i.e. the proportion of deaths relative to the number of infected, is the following: between 0 and 19 years of age, 0.0003, between 20 and 49 years of age, 0.0002, between 50 and 69 years of age, 0.0005, and at the age of 70+, 0.054. These figures from the US influence the fact that the availability of medical care is far worse for most people than in the Czech Republic, and mortality is certainly higher here than in our country. [[12.20 hours]] But mortality in the Czech Republic cannot be observed. Because instead of publishing and monitoring the numbers of really sick people, as has always been done in the past in every epidemic, completely illogically and for the first time in history, we observe numbers infected, which are obviously seemingly high. Seemingly, if we were to test the presence of other viruses, such as influenza, we would reach the same, perhaps higher numbers. And the same would be true of many oncological viruses. At the turn of 2018 to 2019, more than 960,000 people in the Czech Republic were shown to be infected with the flu. And these are just numbers that the disease has proven to be diagnosed by a doctor. Without the people who lay in a fever at the tea house without going to the doctor. And provenly, in fact, that year 2018, more people died than other years before and more, of course, than this year. It was a real epidemic that really killed massively and apparently caused an earlier death to some 2,000 people. Undoubtedly, the virus had millions of people in their bodies. Despite this, no one liquidated the economy or massively and across-the-board restrictions on people's freedoms. What I'm saying is not easing the COVID-19 virus, that's what I'm stressing. But it is absolutely necessary to put every risk in the context of other risks and then choose the least evil. After all, flat - surface measures and panic really threaten all of us. Hospitals become overwhelmed and, on the contrary, we have blocked some of the paramedics, thereby crippling the health system's ability to respond adequately to all diseases and injuries and endangering not only the sick with covid, but all the sick and endangered people in the country. If we have a problem today, it is not just covid behind it, but also confusion and panic, which are subsequently really threatened by people. I would like to quote immunologists who say that it is essential to distinguish the infection with SARS-CoV-2, which will eventually be experienced by most of us, from the disease COVID-19 with clinical manifestations and needed medical care. These cases need to be minimized. Patients with COVID-19, not the majority population, are at risk. Another significantly endangered group that can spread the infection is medical personnel. And the last risk group is seniors over the age of 60, mainly because of a number of other chronic diseases. The current data makes it clear that 20 percent of patients with COVID-19, not those with a positive test, but with clinical manifestations, have a serious course of disease. Ladies and gentlemen, let us protect the endangered and not endanger the unwarranted. This should be the first premise of all the government's actions. Under the cover of epidemiological measures, both the Constitution for Civil Liberties and the economy are restricted. And the question is, how much are they needed to protect the endangered and, on the contrary, not to threaten those who are not in danger of any problems? Which is indeed the vast majority of the inhabitants of our country. I mean, no major problems. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say, on behalf of my parents, one more basic, one crucial premise, and that the children belong in school. The measures announced by the Ministry of Health, announced in connection with COVID-19, have been adversely affecting Czech schools since March 2020. In the new school year, their work was also difficult by catching up with the students from last year's school year. By shutting down the schools, we've deepened past losses. I would like to quote from a letter to the Minister of Health from a school principal. Quote. That quote's gonna be a little bit longer. "Dear Minister. The measures set by the Ministry of Health threaten the health of pupils and significantly complicate education in primary school. The Czech Trade Inspection Authority is able to quickly investigate the real situation in schools, the number of infected pupils and teachers and the source of the disease. I consider taking surface measures without real data to be a very wrong step. Once pupils from socially weak families cannot learn in school, they do not learn in the vast majority at all. And it doesn't change the obligation to learn distance. Please be so kind, Minister, let the actual data be found and the necessary measures be implemented locally and not across the board. At the same time, I would like to ask you to listen to the voices of experts, doctors who draw attention to the harm of wearing drapes in schools, and to abolish these measures as soon as possible." I am still quoting from a letter from one of the elementary school principals to the Minister of Health. I'll continue with the quote: "There are 746 students in our school. As of 1 October, three children were tested positively. They were all infected at family parties, but they were without symptoms. Because of them, 75 children were quarantined, with whom their parents had to stay at home. Neither of these tested children were positive for COVID-19. Three positive pupils were unmarked. There was also a teacher who had a mild illness. Colleagues who are in the cabinet with her haven't been infected by her, they've been tested. The source of the infection wasn't at school either. Experience has shown that the school is not a place where there is a massive spread of the virus. I consider the closure of whole classes in children who are perfectly healthy to be a complication especially for their parents who are losing part of their salary." End of quote from the principal's letter to the elementary school. According to psychological studies, serious colleagues and colleagues, the social isolation that we impose on adults and children has a very negative impact on the mental state of a person. Social isolation in adolescents can lead to a decrease in mood, depression, and anxiety. This is confirmed by the statistics of the Safety Lines, to which, on average, a third more children and adolescents turned after school closure in the spring due to psychological difficulties. More than half of those who turn to the Security Link for cybercrime on the Internet increased in March. The risk of developing addiction on a phone or computer, for example, has increased significantly. Teachers, parents and we also ask that the criteria under which schools are decided to close or open are published. It's not just helping schools, it's helping the whole economy. Compared to restaurants, the impact is even longer when schools are closed. In economics there are several researches that confirm that even a few weeks or a month absenteeism opens scissors between pupils from higher and lower social spheres. Some parents help, others don't. If they do not help for months, it is a problem and the effects are seen decades into the future in careers and labor markets. At the same time, the numbers that escaped are clear. The transmissions of infection in schools were in the order of units of percent. Ladies and gentlemen, I could speak for a long time. But I think that, even on the basis of the above, I have sufficiently explained the reasons why the SPD will not support a 30-day extension of the emergency situation, as suggested by the government. At the same time, I am aware that the proposal for a 30-day extension seems to have majority support for other parties here in the House. Therefore, the SPD is submitting an alternative proposal to vote for an extension of only 10 days, with the fact that we will be responsible for the situation every day and can subsequently adjust the time at any time. I am glad that the new Minister of Health Jan Blatný, who here just once again confirmed that it takes 10 days to evaluate the measures, was right. So then the question is, what proposal are we supposed to vote on here? So I say again, we put forward an alternative proposal to vote for an extension of only 10 days, with the fact that we will evaluate the situation together every day and we can then adjust the time at any time. Because the citizens of our Republic are getting into huge financial and social difficulties. And I think that citizens would deserve, the decent citizens would deserve to have politicians seriously consider every day restrictions or unlimited on the basis of current information and hard data, not only from a health point of view, but also from an economic and social point of view. And I say that the SPD MP is prepared to be here 24/7 in quotation marks so that we can vote so that we can discuss really sensitively day after day those government proposals of measures, so that even one day is not unnecessary, even one day, so that we do not unnecessarily limit the social, economic and financial life and the financial situation of our citizens by a second, even when assessing the health aspect. [[12.30 hours]] I will add that it was the SPD, which already proposed the amendment to the Public Health Act in the spring so that the emergency situation did not have to be announced in the autumn. But the government rejected our proposal in the spring. And we all know that even without emergency conditions, the government, along with the regions, can and should take not horizontal and economic liquidation measures, but concrete and targeted measures where there is real danger. And in the spring we pointed out that it was necessary to amend the Public Health Act, to adjust it so that the measures, any measures, could be taken without declaring an emergency. So I gave our opinion on the SPD movement. Another point of view will be delivered by the President of the Radim Fiala Club, specifying other matters, and I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u10	Thank you, too, Mr President. The President Jakub Michálek is next with priority rights. Mr President, you have both a general and a detailed debate. This is where you do one. I suppose you want to make some accompanying resolution, you can do that now, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the Government's request to prolong the emergency situation. As a Pirates Club, we will only support an extension of the emergency by 14 days, until 19. 11. 2020. The reason is clear - because the deaths are the largest in Europe and, unfortunately, there is no other way in this crisis than to take adequate measures. As a result, Prime Minister Babiš neglected to prepare the country for the second wave that we warned about in April. Then Prime Minister Babiš, when this Chamber of Deputies called it a haunting of the opposition, said he didn't need a plan, and during the holidays he paid for a Facebook ad that the virus was weakening. We have the result here today, the worst numbers in Europe and another emergency. We want to limit the emergency period to 14 days because we want the House to retain control of what the government is doing at the time of emergency and so that we can hold it accountable. As I have already said, the history of handling pandemics is not at all general, and it would therefore be pointless for us to issue a blank check to the government. We also propose at the same time thirty accompanying measures, as we proposed in April in our plan The Future is now the only plan to manage the pandemic, as we proposed in June in this Chamber of Deputies, when the Chamber of Deputies approved eleven. These measures are from areas such as the involvement of as many experts in healthcare management, the electronisation of state administration, smart measures of life with COVID-19 and adequate measures in education. When I say a few examples, involve health professionals and health professionals on maternity leave, give them a financial bonus to ensure individual babysitting, create a national volunteer portal to the places needed to cope with the epidemic, ensure that the government does not liquidate retail tradesmen and push people into large shops. It is necessary to set up the operation non-discriminatoryly under the current strict hygiene rules. Today's measures are chaos. The government still did not follow up on the traffic light, although the government was called upon by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies 1162, to link specific measures to each level of pandemic emergency, as they have in other states, e.g. in New Zealand, where we took the proposal, or in Ireland. Of course, testing in social facilities to reduce the risk of the most vulnerable. Unleash computers and laptops in state warehouses for lending to schools for students who don't have them. Symbolically appreciate the use of eTowel application with a discount on vitamins or tests for self-payers and facilitate and favour the handling of things online. These are all things that my colleagues will present in detail. I want to wonder that the government really can't even handle the management procedure, because when I addressed it by letter, I received an answer in October in which the Ministry of Health told me that it didn't follow information about what the average time we were doing with a sick person or a person who was suspected of being infected was to scare away and report conclusively from the moment there was risky contact, and how long it took on average until he had the relevant test. Of course, these numbers are absolutely crucial for managing the level of regional sanitation stations to handle the infected and people who are suspected to be quickly isolated or quarantined. So the Health Department doesn't have this information according to the letter, which I think is a management failure. I would like to ask you, colleagues - and we will, of course, read this resolution in a detailed debate, and colleagues will present the individual parts - so that, now that we are dealing with the emergency situation in the Czech Republic for the second time, we do not take lightly to let the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health listen to what the opposition is coming up with, because they are constructive proposals that aim not only for the short term now, during the next 14 days or one month when we will be dealing with the second wave of the pandemic, but, in particular, to cope with it in the longer term, because it significantly interferes with the lives of our citizens. Thank you for your attention and for your support for the resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u12	So I'll reread the order to remind myself. Ms Jana Černochová will now speak with priority rights for the ODS, the chair of Pirates Ivan Bartoš, the chair of the TOP 09 Ms Pekarová Adamová and the chair of the SPD Radim Fiala, and then we will go to those applications that I normally have in order here. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u13	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I am acting with priority rights, of course under the ODS, because the ODS is the party that I represent here, but then Vice-President of Civil Democrats Martin Kupka will present the position of civil democrats. Let me get this straight. Mr Vice-President, I regret to have to return here before I start talking about an emergency situation to what has been said here from the mouth of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Filip. He mentioned here some story from 2001 when he went to the Constitutional Court to explain some procedure that took place in the Chamber of Deputies in 2001. I call on you, through Mr Filip, to apologize to the citizens' democrats, because he has accused them of manipulating the resolution in an unprecedented way. It's not true. I looked up the case, I looked up the Constitutional Court's finding, it's the Constitutional Court's decision under number 476, and I also looked up the vote. Mr. Filip was not even present in the hall when this review - and beware, from Mr. Bohuslav Sobotka's mouth, not from the ODS members - was designed here. So I call on Vice-President Filip to apologize to the citizens' democrats and to do so on a microphone. For you, colleagues, in order to avoid saying in the future - and we can object and we cannot object, I will read you the essential part of the Constitutional Court's finding, and I ask that you may have taken what I read to you now, each of you, put in a drawer in the Chamber of Deputies, so that we may never have to argue here again about what is lege artis and what is not. This is described in Article IV of the Constitutional Court's finding: Procedure in the legislative process governed by the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, Act No. 90/1995 Coll., although it is not built on the principle of infallibility of legislators, however, from various theoretically possible variants of the mechanisms of re-vote and the reasons for which the law currently in force determines the conditions for them by reserveing the right for each Member to vote or immediately thereafter, i.e. after the President of the meeting has announced the result of the vote and announced that the proposal has been adopted - it is that Section 76 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 of Law No. 90/1995 Coll. - object either to the course of the vote or to the outcome of the vote, de facto para. 5, and only if the objection thus raised is accepted by the Chamber of Deputies, it is possible to repeat the vote without revoking the previous vote, but not to return to the draft law by renegotiating. [[12.40 hours]] The Constitutional Court's finding continues with another sentence: The repeated vote, no matter whether the amendment or the resolution by which the draft law gives its consent as a whole, is limited by two conditions, namely the direct opposition of the Member and the positive decision of the Chamber of Deputies on it, and, moreover, for their nature, it can only be relied on as flaws, errors, in its own voting act, i.e. essentially on the technique of the vote or on the outcome of the vote, but not on the substance of the proposal in substance. Other mechanisms are constitutionally designed to eliminate them - Article 47 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 of Constitutional Act No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. I apologize for delaying you from the debate that concerns the emergency situation, but I considered it important for us to say this here, so that, according to this finding, we continue in the future, and, above all, that whoever is in charge of the Chamber of Deputies meeting here does not abuse his right so that, in an unprecedented way, he will attack the Civil Democratic Party here and lie to us that there was something, and yet here I am convincing you and proving that it was quite different. There. Now, to emergency. Ladies and gentlemen. All my previous speakers have already talked about the chaos of the government's measures that we are facing. Probably for each of us it is such déjà vu, which we experienced during the spring months, but then unfortunately it was with far less risks than today and also with fewer victims and infected. If at the time we felt we were at a loss, it was just a little fantasy that wouldn't allow us to imagine the even worse situation we're in now. Unfortunately, the government has not taken much from this experience. After taking all the credit for mastering the first wave of a pandemic, even though it was mostly people who, thanks to their discipline, solidarity, and ability to take care of themselves, had the greatest credit to handle it, unfortunately, the government fell asleep in those summer months and decided to let us surprise again. When I was at the end of June, maybe it was the beginning of July, she was in a duel with Mr. Interior Minister Hamáček, we were discussing the question. At the time, I asked the Minister to provide faster testing, faster tracing, and, above all, free testing. And ideally, the results should be known within 24 hours. Ideally, it would be up to 12, but even the 24 would be much better than the 48 that still pay. And unfortunately, each of you has a number of friends around you, people who have been through this, and you believe that maybe they won't hear from anyone until after ten days. Then you ask yourself what smart drapes, smart quarantines are for, when someone texted that he could hypothetically meet someone who's a covid positive, so he met him five days ago. And a lot of people also informed me that they'd be paged when they were home, they never met anyone, and they didn't get out of the apartment. So these are all the things that should have worked out in those summer months. I'm sorry it didn't happen. I'm not just accusing the Prime Minister of this, I think any of us who are in some management position knows they have to rely on their team. And unfortunately, Prime Minister, your team wasn't very reliable, because even of the various decisions, the chaotic decisions, the discussions between you, the denial of one minister's position by the other minister, it all caused a legitimate concern and revolt in the citizens that some of the measures would simply not be followed, because even you were unable to agree on what should be followed in one government. But my words are not the words of the general after the battle. Before the second wave of pandemic, we were all warned many times by experts, not just by them. It's not just on the political level, it's on the professional level. The government could have prepared for the worst-case scenario, not to hide alibis from the public's wishes. Let us look to Germany for their approach and learn. A responsible government perceives the risks that are hidden and that can come. So there should have been a detailed analysis of what we underestimated in the spring. We should have been inspired by countries that were much worse off then, not today, but before we were. None of this happened. And now we know that this unfortunate government procedure was partly due to the fact that we had two elections here, regional elections and Senate elections, and the fear that voters might not have voted as much as some survey showed, so the measures were delayed. I mean, I've been wearing a drape all summer in public transport, and I have to say, I've been facing all sorts of attacks, swearing that I'm a covid positive, or why I actually have that drape. And I consider this to be a very weak link in the communication, because I think that even a number of people from the government of the Czech Republic should set an example, just by example, that they will behave the way they say we should, and we will not learn from time to time who he was meeting with at night or who he was going to, and whether he was wearing a drape or not. I've never stood up to a guile. I tried to approach the whole pandemic always as mayor of Prague 2 responsibly, because even in my interest as a politician, it was for us to stay in office as long as possible, which we succeeded, and thanks for that to all our colleagues. [[12.50 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, as a responsible opposition today, we cannot meet your request for an extension of the emergency situation despite the fact that the performance you are currently demonstrating is perhaps even more tragic than it was in the spring. It is enough to mention the continuing confusion of conflicting statements, changes in measures in the order of hours, inconspicuous lists of exceptions to bans, when some colleagues - as Dominik Feri, make the government an interpreter to make it clear to people, other numerous absurdities that lack logic or a top number - are turbulent exchanges in the management of the Ministry of Health. However, in the situation in which we are, we must endure this with the citizens, because we simply cannot afford a political crisis like the Czech Republic. We therefore have no choice but to extend the emergency situation today. And we want to discuss its length. Martin Kupka, Vice-President of the ODS, will comment on this and propose a resolution on this. Understand that even at this point, we cannot remain silent about some of the steps that apply and which should continue to apply. However, not because we want to criticise you at all costs, but because, in short, your measures have and will have concrete effects on the daily lives of our people, on their standard of living, on the level of education, public health, relations between people, not only because people with their problems turn to us, I think that different groups are turning to each of us. And even we local politicians, who are closer to these people and we also have some departments in charge, can share some things from practice that might work better. For this reason, Prime Minister, Minister of Education, I would like to give you the opportunity to outline two huge problems that we see as municipal politicians at the moment, and which I hope and please appeal to the government to adjust in the coming weeks. Only in this way will unnecessary mistakes be made on the future of our children and the level of education of our society. As a municipal politician in charge of the field of education in Prague 2, I would like to call on the government and, in particular, the ministers of health and education - it is a pity that the Minister of Health does not listen... [[He's not present in the hall. The Prime Minister adds: He's at the press conference.]] Thank you, Prime Minister. He's got a press conference.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u14	I have information from the Minister that he's at a press conference. It was announced, so we made it possible. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u15	... to re-evaluate the area measures introduced in schools. And I have two specific appeals on you. The first, Minister of Education, concerns pupils of the first and second classes of primary schools. I understand that it is not currently possible for all children to go to school. No discussion. The risks are large, the capacity of schools and, above all, teachers are limited. The opposite situation, which we are experiencing, i.e. the closure of schools for everyone, is, however, the second extreme. And distance lessons for such young children, pupils of the first and second years, who have spent only a few hours in the benches, are virtually impossible. I'm also talking about sophomores because they actually went to school for practically a few months last year before school closed down. And many of them did not learn the basic skills that I, the so-called Husákův's children who were able to do either before we came to the first class or definitely after the first class, believe that the time that these children will spend at home will hardly catch up and will have a problem in the future that they will not develop sufficient teaching habits, which naturally also entails a deeper social problem, the educational one. I believe, from my own experience and our Prague 2 district, I know well that schools, and you really have my word for it, if you want, I will arrange a meeting with those directors, so our schools will certainly be willing to ensure appropriate hygiene conditions so as to avoid spreading the virus as much as possible. Children could wear drapes, or they could divide classes into smaller groups. Those schools, the way our ancestors built them, they're huge. Even some of them are rented partly for high schools that are closed, and so there I am not at the moment upset about their opening. I hunt for opening, for opening at least the classes of first and second. And I'll get to the other one. So please, let's try to think about how to get our little ones back to school. If, for example, Minister, Prime Minister, it would not be possible for these children to introduce general testing, as is planned for seniors. Missed time in direct contact with the teacher will be very difficult to catch up. And I'm afraid in some cases it will be virtually impossible. My second appeal concerns ninth grade students. I'm talking about it repeatedly. Based on the presentation in schools during the last six weeks, it is clear that distance education during the second half of the last school year even more opened up imaginary scissors among the knowledge of pupils in the classroom. But for ninth graders, it is absolutely crucial that they have the opportunity to properly prepare for the entrance exams in high school. And it's up to us to create an environment in which it's possible. Given that the second degree will remain - and this may be clear and said - that after the second November they will be closed to the second degree, we will not allow a certain number of children who would normally have the potential to succeed if, over how to get them into school in some groups, it would actually solve this problem. I would therefore like to call on the Government to allow consultation hours from 2 November, Minister, Prime Minister, at least for pupils of the ninth grade. These classes could take place in small groups of a few people and would concern only the key subjects of which they will take entrance exams, namely mathematics, Czech, or foreign language. If these groups were, let's say, children of five plus six plus the relevant teacher, then there would definitely be a safe environment in those large school buildings to avoid spreading contagion in these children. And we should be sure that our children - ninth graders - will be really well prepared to transfer to high school and their parents will not be terrified that they will fail or that they will have problems right from their freshman year in high school. I am realisticly aware that we are in a state where, unfortunately, we cannot do without restrictions and restrictions and when extending the emergency situation is a desperate step for all of us. We don't want it. I would, of course, like to conclude by calling for the government's actions to be thought out, not for politicians, but also for citizens of the Czech Republic to act randomly and to be done as carefully as possible. And they say let's respect all those decisions on the pharmaceutical scales. I think the parable is very accurate. Unfortunately, this has not yet been the case, but at least something can still be saved. And it is the education sector that is one of those areas where the system can be organised to save ourselves even greater problems in the future. [[13.00 hours]] Dear Prime Minister, Minister, colleagues, thank you for your attention and I would like to ask the Minister of Education or Health in a final speech, if he could say what he thinks of my proposal and whether such a thing would be real. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u16	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes for business reasons. The next is the Member, Chairman of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u17	Thank you for your word. The Prime Minister is leaving the government, there remains Minister Plaga, for which I thank, because, as my previous speaker Jakub Michálek said, in that area - we are in the context of negotiations on a possible extension of the emergency situation, which we are proposing for 14 days, so that we can meet here and evaluate how things are developing, or evaluate how any new measures have been taken, or whether a change has been made that we are proposing to the government today. So I have from the four areas where there is health, life with covid and others, a few notes on the area of education and education in the Czech Republic. I would start with such maybe even a complaint, but I think I was not alone, who even in the previous government composition, where Minister Prymula was, was chaotic when parents and partly children, but also schools, educators and directors did not know how to proceed at the time. While, at one point, the schools adapted the methodology prepared by the Ministry, which followed at the given moment some pandemic traffic light, they suddenly got into the regime that the schools were shut down. And it is now - the current situation - a question that I think is very important, and it is necessary for this government and individual ministers, particularly health and education, to clarify when, and under what conditions, the children will return to the benches. So maybe the biggest reservation in this direction, we actually asked, and it's not us pirát, but to keep this communication clear and understandable. [[Oh, yeah, ……]] This also has to do with the fact that those parents, children, teachers or directors must know in advance and exactly under what conditions pupils can return physically to schools and what such return will look like. Whether, for example, the government will continue to supply schools with protective aids if the number of children in the classroom and so on is limited. Because these models are a whole series of ways to combine that teaching. When we look, I think of Britain, for example, there are groups of children who take turns at school and don't meet, and at the same time, this thing needs to be supplemented by distance learning online. So that's the first thing under which conditions and in which regimes pupils would go back to schools and what this will depend on, whether it's just R, or we're looking at some other parameters. The second area, which I think is crucial, must be clearly stated as to how the state will be, until the pupils return to school, providing that distance education especially for pupils - and the number is still dramatic - who do not have a tablet or a computer at home. It's these families, or students, that we're always looking at by some kind of prisma, like it's some kind of social case. The fact that, in such an interim period, the executors even confiscated computers that were intended for home-schooling is different, and I hope we have been able to sort it out here in the House with the approval. Anyway, they're also families where a parent is at home at home office. It's not common for families to have two or three computers. If the parent is at home, he needs to use the computer to work and has two children, he should have at home, i.e. from the logic of things, three computers or some tablet to make this possible. And now Pirates and I are organizing - and it's more organizations - a nationwide collection. However, we would like to call on the government to release the already disabled, but fully functional techniques of the authorities, if this meets those basic parameters, hardware, to run the Internet on them, to connect them, or communicate or equip them with some relatively inexpensive parts such as headphones or webcams. Also important is the Ministry's regular methodological support for distance teaching, because even now in the second wave, and as it is, even for the Minister, politicians are turning to citizens, teachers, parents, and from experience - we get things once a week by email or by writing to us via chat on Facebook, the spectrum that the school is trying to meet the conditions of some remote teaching. It is evident that this has not been consolidated, so, on the one hand, the methodology should be presented more strongly and probably deserve regular support. We consider it absolutely crucial to leave families the option of choice during the pandemic. For example, if the family proves that they have a risk group at home, such as a grandmother, the pupils should be able to continue to be educated remotely in order to protect themselves, if there is any distraction, so that this option is preserved. This should also apply to whole classes with pupils with special educational needs. Here, however, it is necessary for the state to provide sufficient support for their parents in the event of distance teaching, because children with special educational needs, of course, the support for distance education at home is significantly more difficult. Last but not least, it is not possible to forget the workers in education who have small children, whom the government could somehow help to provide for babysitting. In the same way, we promote that they can help as volunteers, for example, students of teaching faculties. I've been trying to pierce the crucial points here. In this regard, there are also the proposed resolutions, which I would now read quickly. These are three individual resolutions, which then have individual points. Chamber of Deputies 1. Asks that: I. has been established and published in relation to the evolution of the epidemiological situation with criteria on the basis of which the operation of schools and educational establishments will be renewed or restricted; II. a common and comprehensible communication of the Government's actions on the provision of teaching, the operation of schools and school facilities and in sufficient advance to enable schools, school facilities and the public to respond adequately to the measures taken. - That's one, he's asking. 2. Savings to the Government of the Czech Republic I. continue to supply protective equipment and clothing to schools and school establishments where operations are not limited at the moment; II. ensure the care of children by pedagogical and non-teaching staff involved in the provision of teaching and operation of schools and educational establishments; III. ensure effective and free transfer of excluded ICT techniques by those computers, or other parts, from offices and public institutions to primary and secondary schools, in order to ensure distance teaching, for pupils who do not have access to online teaching due to lack of technical background. - It's already going on, but according to the field reports, it's not enough, and here we see the space especially for the fact that the computers are actually writing off, they're functional, they're just mortified, and they can be removed from the property of the authorities. IV. prepare and publish a long-term programme of tasks on the provision of methodological support to ensure distance learning, continuously monitor and provide information on their implementation; V. prepare and publish scenarios and draft options for the gradual return of pupils to schools in relation to the evolution of the epidemiological situation; VI. ensure compensation to higher education institutions in connection with the restriction of student residence on university colleges. - That was for 2 - saves. [[13.10 hours]] 3. It recommends the following measures to the Government of the Czech Republic: I. to enable voluntary distance teaching, in particular, to pupils who have a family member belonging to a risk group in their household or if they themselves belong to that group; II. strengthen cooperation and coordinate activities by existing initiatives and non-profit organizations We teach online, within the Czech Republic. Digital, Computers for children and others that help families with providing technical equipment for online teaching; III. to enable schools and classes established pursuant to Article 16 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to be governed by the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States of the European Union; 9 of Law No 561/2004 Coll., School Act, restrict operation at their request and switch to a distance or mixed form of teaching while ensuring increased support for children and families in distance education. These are, therefore, the motions for a resolution that I have now read and which we would like to vote on in connection with the vote on the Government's request for an extension of the emergency situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u18	Thank you. I'd just sum up the situation. We are still in the general debate, giving priority rights, and yet here is Mrs Pekarová and Mr Radim Fiala. Then there will be proper applications, and the first is Mrs Olga Richterová, whom I would then ask to take up the role of rapporteur, and all those who have some motions for resolutions or amendments, so that you can then direct them to the rapporteur. So at this point, I will ask Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová to take the floor with priority rights in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u19	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad you're here with us at least, but I'm sorry that the Prime Minister didn't last the whole time during the debate on the emergency situation, because many of my petitions, requests, are going to him too. [[Minister for Education]] I hope, then, that he will listen to us at least in the background or that they will get to him. We are discussing an extension of the emergency situation here and I want to report that we are, of course, aware of the situation in which the Czech Republic is still in and it is necessary to extend the emergency situation. However, what I consider inadequate, and I regret that there has been no improvement, since spring alone, I do not see much of the difference there, as we are justified by the extension of the emergency situation. In the background that we all have at our disposal for this press, there is once again a lack of the basic thing, namely, in addition to stating the state of the current situation, which is contained there, there should also be, in my view, a outlook for the future and a strategy with which the government will continue to work in the coming weeks of emergency. The plan, the strategy, the models, whatever we call it, should be transparent, we should know it as well as the public. The communication doesn't contain it, and it's the basic problem of the whole situation, and as I say, it's been going on for months, it's nothing new. It is all the more alarming that you are not trying to change this aspect and that we are not learning anything more here than to state the current situation no matter what you are up to and do in the coming days, weeks and months. And the fact that it is necessary, I think we all realize, because driving the brake system - gas is simply not possible. That's what's happening so far. It's been happening since spring, it's been going on in style: first we try softer measures, if they don't work, we'll make a much tougher quarantine. Basically, it is such a partial lockdown, although I agree with the Prime Minister that everyone imagines this problem differently and interprets it differently. But even today, we would certainly like to know about how you want to get to the point where we can gradually release individual measures, go back to life, but at the same time hand in hand, we have avoided fighting another massive wave here. And this is what needs to be done, and I think that this government needs to work very intensively with all its expert teams right now. It is very important for life in this country and for all those who are running out of money today, they are very nervous about it, they are very stressed out, and they have really existential problems, and at the same time they are frustrated, angry, and as the Minister, the new Minister of Health, has said, we have to assume that this fear is not just from an epidemic, just from an illness, but from the future, which is very unflattering, black for many now. And of course, for many of them, this uncertainty about their own future is so worried that they're starting to become so frustrated, like they're demonstrating in the square, many of them starting to resort, for example, to trust in various disinformational and conspiracy theories that are just crawling around here. But I think it should be one of those major changes that should come up with the new minister. The Minister here - I must appreciate - has said very clearly the health information, whether it concerns hospital preparedness and how the situation in capacity and other areas has to be, but this is the health part, which, of course, must also be accompanied by information on how long according to the existing assumptions, unless we plan to harden, as they say, with measures, so how long can it take to get the reproductive number under 1, respectively. On the desired 0.8. And if we do, then what happens next? That doesn't even ring a bell. So if we can flatten the curve, if we can reduce the reproductive number as we keep the epidemic under control. We're going to talk about the gradual release of the individual closures that are here, whether they're schools, operations, or the possibility of moving outside as usual, but with that hand in hand, you're going to have to deal with, of course, if the reproductive number doesn't start to rise quickly again and the community transfer will continue. And this, I think, is the strategy that we all deserve to know, to know her details. Often here, especially from the mouth of some ministers, this fight against the epidemic is likened to war. I think that if we were at war - I don't like this term because I think he's overzealous, he's overestimating the situation and he's not justified - but if we were in a legitimate war, you certainly can't fight and lead any attack or defense without a strategy. And I think that's the basis of the whole problem, why a large part of the public still doesn't want to give in to these measures, doesn't want to follow them, doesn't want to see the situation as serious. Because it's related information and this assurance that we know what's going to happen next, we know how to get this situation under control is missing. Therefore, I beg you to finally put into this matter what we have been asking you to do for many weeks, and I remind you of this resolution for several times, it is September of this year that you put a communication strategy into life. This strategy must also include the fight against misinformation and conspiracy, but it must also include how to get relevant things about the epidemic to individual population groups and how to get facts, information and also individual measures for all those who have to follow them, which is actually a whole society. I also ask you to publish models, and I think the Minister of Health has already talked about it, so I hope that once he has been in office for more than the current roughly 24 hours, this will be the case that a model of development will be published and also how it will be followed in the coming weeks in terms of easing measures that these errors that have been made will be corrected. [[13.20 hours]] I would like to ask the Prime Minister to convene again the meeting of the Presidents of all the parliamentary parties. These meetings have only been held in the last two weeks. I think it is a very useful thing and that we should continue because we also want to know not only information, but to have a better form than here from the counter and that in the end, not all the ministers concerned and the Prime Minister are here to present our proposals to you. We have always been willing to help to resolve this situation from the very beginning of March, and we are proposing individual procedures to combat the epidemic. In all these areas, whether health, economic, or education, we have our experts, we have our suggestions and suggestions. And at these meetings, we had the opportunity to present them more effectively than here. So I'm asking you again because I think it's for the benefit of dealing with the situation. I also want to turn from this place against the accusations that were in the conversations with Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, who - I wish him an early recovery - is not here, but he has appointed me and some other opposition party presidents in the sense that we have defended the emergency situation here and did not want to put in place an emergency situation. That's how I want to fight it. There was certainly nothing out of my mouth about not needing an emergency, but there has always been a call from my mouth to you as a government to justify it well and to say what you want to do during it. This is a fundamental difference which perhaps Mr Hamáček is not well aware of. Then I have a question here which I hope will be able to answer the present Minister Plaga because it concerns education. At one of those meetings with the government and the Prime Minister, we were assured by Mr Prymula, the Minister of Health at the time, that at least one primary school will always be open in each city for medical staff, for doctors, nurses and all other health professions to provide the necessary services for children of these professions so that they can continue to be in hospitals and where they are needed most today. I wonder if this is really realized, because in the media, I have noted the complaint of some doctors and, for example, hospital directors, that they lack medical personnel precisely because the schools are closed and they have to be at home with the children, with the younger ones, in the infirmary. So if it's true that this staff, too, is busy taking care of their children and we're losing them in their professions, I think it's a rather narrow throat that you've caused by failing to implement this promise, which there, a few weeks before school closing, has been heard. Therefore, I hope that you will have the answer here, and I will be happy to promise you that we will help you again as always, as is the case with the planning and implementation of the information site on which our Member, Mr Feri, is working intensively. Just as this is happening with our specific proposals for tackling the health crisis. But it is necessary that it is not just one-sided and such in the media declared "we want to pull together" and then when the opposition's proposals come, one after another was rejected as on the running belt. That's not really how you work together, that's not how you work together. I firmly hope that you are serious about her, that this is not just a declaration for citizens, which then is not really true. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u20	Thank you. Mr Radim Fiala will continue to speak with priority. Vice-President Vojtěch Filip will be ready and then Minister Plaga will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u21	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me add a little bit to this discussion, especially the opinion of the SPD. But since it all has some continuity, I would have started very briefly from the past. The SPD movement supported all the measures proposed by this government in the spring. The measures had meaning. I think it was the right step and the Czech Republic became a premiere in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. But what happened after that, I don't think it was so typical anymore, and it wasn't good, because the government completely resigned, as if the coronavirus weren't here anymore, we don't need to fight anymore, and completely canceled all those measures. Which couldn't have gone any different than what happened in the fall. What is important, however, is to mention and what is important for people that in that spring we saw a very poor communication of the government, the Ministry of Health with citizens. There were simply press conferences where the minister spoke, then the Prime Minister spoke in two hours, then someone else came forward and we learned a few things and a few opinions and several forms of problem solving. And I would say that to this day, the communication is not unified, and I think it certainly inspires insecurity in people, and uncertainty is the worst. So I would ask the new Minister of Health to try to unite the communication so that people are informed in time of what is going to happen. But there is another question that I am asking the Minister of Health. We have an emergency now. Before Christmas, the numbers will be better, because of course we've reduced mobility, we've reduced the movement of people, the numbers will be better, people will buy at Christmas, and of course the numbers will grow again in January. And so it goes on in such waves. And I think it's time to adopt some strategy and talk about it, to fight the coronavirus for the future. People need to know not only what will happen at the end of November, what will happen at Christmas, but what will happen in the spring, what will happen in February, what will happen in March. Because it has to do with the fact that they can prepare for that time. Economically, businessly, at work, with children, socially. I think that this vision is missing and that the Health Department and the government must have those models, and we would like to discuss it, because that is very important for all of us in the future. As far as spring measures are concerned, I think we've been calling here from opposition benches to say that the government should protect the risk groups, they're mainly seniors, they're partially disabled, and they should build the capacity of hospitals for that wave to come back. I imagined that risk groups would be covered, protected by, for example, respirators, drapes will be prescribed by their physician. They'll get them for free on prescription at the pharmacy. Because the GP knows exactly who the risk group is, who's senior, etc. It can't be mailed, it's like amateur experiments to me. That we'd build hospital capacity. We see that they're building at the last minute, what if. And they're building up in the exhibition halls. I think, of course, we're happy today that at least we have an alternative. But that's not the point. We found that we had to build hospital capacity in the spring, and that wasn't happening. [[13.30 hours]] Now I'm finally getting to the emergency situation. In fact, the emergency situation is a legal environment in which the government, Parliament and the whole country are operating today. In the spring, we called for a public health amendment to be approved. Once again, I'm going to say the title: a public health amendment. I think the name clearly states that it is an amendment and a law that we could use to combat the coronavirus pandemic and which would not paralyze the Czech Republic as an emergency situation. But we were persuaded by the government to prepare a new crisis law, a law on security of the Czech Republic, a constitutional law. And when we said it would take a year and a half, nothing happened, no one responded, and today we're in a situation that we just have nothing, and it's much easier for the government to declare an emergency. If we had an amendment to the Public Health Act, we could work so that some local issues could be dealt with by the Minister, for example by the government within 48 hours and could subsequently approve the Chamber of Deputies so that we could respond promptly, quickly, to all the things that are happening around us, especially the negative ones, quickly. Unfortunately, this has not happened, we have an emergency situation which, in my opinion, paralyzes the democratic principles of state governance, and Parliament works in a limited way. I think they do jobs without a tender, and it's a lot of other stuff. For example, it is also important that the state under this law is not responsible for anything when it closes schools, companies and so on. Of course, the emergency situation also limits human rights. The government can put a curfew, shut down businesses, businesses, and it's a lot of other things. So, as an emergency as a legal form, I think it's already insufficient, and it's not enough, especially because we're not just gonna end the fight on November 3rd and probably not December 3rd. We need something even better and more perfect than an emergency. I would touch on a few precautions. Of course, we voted a lot here. All I can say is that the SPD has proposed 40 laws that should improve people's economic conditions, because, of course, the longer this crisis period lasts, the less social, economic and any other life in the Czech Republic. [[more]] From the measures that I would touch here, and which I don't think are good, and I'm going to join some of my previous speakers, and I'm going to turn to the Minister of Education, Plagu, that we think the smallest kids in primary school should go to school. Not only to educate themselves, but also because it allows a lot of people to go to work normally, which means they will be economically active. And from the point of view of health, I'm afraid that the mobility of these little children, their movement in society -- they're guarded by grandmothers, aunts, uncles from one city to another city, and so on -- and the possible transmission is far greater than if they were in one class of 20 and followed the health regulations that the school has. So, Minister, it's a thought, and I think those little kids are supposed to go to school. As the second thing I would touch here, the second measure, which is completely illogical to me, is the ban on sales on Sunday. If there's a river running and you narrow it down, there's a lot more water coming through, and very fast. If you reduce the time of sale, you simply accumulate people in one day into that supermarket and the possibility of transmission is much greater. So I would say, not that it helps anything, but that it's exactly the opposite, that the possibility of transmission, if you have not a hundred people, but a thousand people, is just ten times bigger. Next I want to ask the Minister of Health. We recently voted for foreign troops in the territory of the Czech Republic, it was voted by a representative, as a constitutional matter goes to the Senate. It was because of the paramedics we need here, the NATO paramedics. I want to ask, and I refer to Czech servers that say Czech health professionals from the world are reporting to us, Czech doctors who live differently in the world and would like to help the Czech Republic. They're calling the Department of Health, but no one's interested in them. Then explain to me, Minister, that we are not interested in Czech paramedics who want to help us, but we are interested in NATO soldiers. This is a completely incomprehensible thing for me, and of course I think that someone at the Ministry of Health should take care of it. When you again want us to raise our hand for foreign troops, I will ask you if you have responded to the fact that there are many, literally dozens of Czech doctors around the world who want to help us. And finally, to the very design of the emergency situation. I think and believe that what the government is proposing for the next thirty days of emergency is too big a blank check, when you are actually putting up this blank check and you are sure that the Chamber of Deputies will no longer be concerned with what you are doing. I think it's been too long. We want to discuss this the way we are discussing it today so that we don't have to talk about it in front of journalists on TV or anything like that, let's just say it here with each other. And we'll be designing ten days in the SPD. It may seem to some people that an extension of the emergency by ten days is a very short time, but I can say that it is a minimum time when the measures taken by the government can already be evaluated. It's definitely a time where we can see what's going on, and we can talk about it here. And secondly, we can also extend this emergency situation, and I think it will probably happen, but let's evaluate it, the minimum shortest time it makes sense, let's meet and let's extend the emergency situation if absolutely necessary. So, of course, the SPD will vote in favour of its proposal, the ten-day extension, but if it doesn't pass, then it will also vote in favour of the 14-day extension, maybe even by 21-day extension, we need to consult, but certainly not for 30 days. It's too big a blank check to actually care about what the government's gonna do next month. Otherwise, allow me to conclude by wishing everyone good health and that the situation can be handled as soon as possible. Of course, I also want to wish the new Minister of Health a lot of success, because we will need them in his new job. And I also want to say that I very much appreciate his password, which he said, and that is that "the fear of this disease, of this disease, must be replaced by respect" because, of course, I would say that fear was too much, that we need good solutions and that we need good respect and we need success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u22	Thank you. The Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Vojtěch Filip, will speak with priority. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the government, I will address the subject. And first, perhaps briefly, I have no reason to apologize to the ODS, as my colleague Černochová called me. I really did not represent the House in 2001, it was later because I was elected Vice-President for the first time in 2002, and then I enjoyed it several times. But if she wants me to look up the materials she asked the ODS to question the vote, I'll give it to the assistants, but there's really no reason to apologize here. [[13.40 hours]] As for the position of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia itself on the duration of the emergency situation. The government has asked us for 30 days, and we need basically to know what the real number of positive tests is, not just the number of positive tests. That's probably the difference that exists here, that's what we're discussing, and in my opinion, that's not something we couldn't learn. The next thing you need to know is the number of deaths where the only diagnosis was COVID-19 disease, where a lot of people die of other diseases in the finals, succumb seriously, with life incompatible with disease, and that disease COVID-19 is just secondary. We also need the government to communicate with us the real number of positive tested without symptoms, with mild symptoms, with moderate severe symptoms and those who require intensive medical care, that is, the connection to pulmonary ventilation, because it is all important for assessing whether measures should be designed to limit citizens' rights as intense and as long as they should last. It is equally important that we discuss regularly the real number of hospitalized people who do not require hospitalization, because the ignorance of the disease, of course, at certain moments, leads to hospitalization by those who are then released and in a way restricting the real capacity in hospitals. It is also important that we have a permanent indication of the actual number of free beds of intensive care, because it is a fact that this is also developing unevenly regionally in the Czech Republic, and it also depends on how the hygiene service is applied, but also the Police of the Czech Republic is able to control compliance with the individual government regulations adopted on this matter, applied and also controlled. Because it's all important that we evaluate the measures. And that will not be evaluated on the second or third day of their adoption, because the time limits that are important for the onset of the disease and how the person is dealing with it are also crucial for what measures are to be taken, and without analysing the results of the individual measures, it probably does not make sense to take other measures when we do not have evaluations of those already taken. Then, in our opinion, it is very important, perhaps one of the most important data - and Radim Fiala mentioned it here before me - is the real number of missing medical personnel, because it is also important, of course, for us to know what capacity the Czech health system has and how it can respond to the individual worsening or improving conditions of the disease in the Czech Republic. These are the minimum data needed. We want to communicate with them regularly, and we don't think that application is some kind of bingo check. In the spring, we have always discussed very intensively with the government whether it is necessary to extend by fourteen days, by three weeks, by a month, and we have been willing to raise our hand at any time to extend the emergency situation if there are the reasons for it. But the reasons were different than what I have just mentioned, and not only the medical ones, they were also in the area of purchase, because at that time the state was not really ready for this, whereas now, essentially after more than half a year of encountering COVID-19 disease, the state is already ready and there are supplies of material both in hospitals, in the institutions of social care, but also in state material reserves. It's just a question of whether the number of materials needed is enough. The second thing that, in my opinion, is not finished, I pointed out in the spring, is the question of a new pandemic plan. Again, the last pandemic plan is from 2011, and it responded to the floods in 2010 and other natural disasters, but here we are in a different situation and the pandemic plan really needs to be redesigned. That is why I am sorry - and now this is not a complaint against the sick Prime Minister and Interior Minister Jan Hamáček - that the widespread crisis crew, i.e. the representatives of other political parties, i.e. not just the government parties, is not to be involved, and I must say that it is probably important for every political party what the pandemic plan will look like. I want to say that this is probably important for planning future steps, because the immediate measures in a situation where the crisis is getting worse are of course necessary, no one is questioning them, no one wants the government to react in a way that does not correspond to the situation, and no one wants the health of the population to deteriorate, and care for the health of the people is important. At this point, I must say that the demands we have made publicly are placed on the table, we want to communicate with the government, and we are ready to extend the emergency situation in this communication. Of course there will be suggestions. We will certainly not vote for an extension of only ten days, which we consider to be so short a time that it is impossible to find out when we know that even in the most positive development, in the most positive development of the former Minister Prymula, and the current Minister Blatný has confirmed that the table is actually valid, the worst period will be around 11th to 15th November, and this excludes the vote on the end of the emergency situation before that date. So that's probably our position, which is essential for orientation, how we look at the situation, how we are prepared to deal with it. And, of course, we will never be able to prevent the emergency situation from getting shorter or longer unless the situation improves. And I hope that these measures will improve, that they will be effective and that they will also be important for people to believe more that the measures taken around the world, throughout Europe, need to be followed so that, in a way, by ignoring them, we do not make the situation of others worse, because everyone's freedom ends where the other's freedom begins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u24	I thank you, too, and with priority rights, the Minister of Education will be Plaga at the moment. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u25	Thank you for the floor. In response to a question by Markéta Pekarová Adamová about the promise that schools for medical and nonmedical staff would be designated, I deliver very briefly and in fact. As in the spring, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports communicates with the regions and the capital of Prague in accordance with the pandemic plan, and at this time, 405 schools throughout the Czech Republic were designated to provide care not only for medical, non-medical staff but also for other children of critical infrastructure employees. At the same time, the Ministry of Education addressed the deans of teaching faculties to the secondary deputy for universities, science and research, so that the practice of teaching staff, i.e. students of teaching faculties, would be directed to these facilities. [[13.50 hours]] At the same time, we have also sent information to the regional authorities that the additional costs associated with the provision of these services, which are extremely important and necessary at the moment, and the additional costs, the remuneration and the operation as such can be borne from the regional reserve, from the funds that we have broken down into regional budgets. So what was promised was just as fulfilled in the spring. The coordination role in the territory is based on the pandemic plan of the region that they had, and so we recommended them to communicate with the hospitals and those designated schools and school facilities, their location, to give as close as possible to the hospitals as possible so that the nurses, as well as the doctors and other hospital staff would be able to place the children there and it was as user-friendly as possible. At the same time, the regions have been informed from us from the very beginning that they can add more to the designated capacity, because new requirements for critical infrastructure are emerging, respectively. children, so they can of course supplement. It's in their jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u26	Thank you. And with priority rights, Vice-President of the KSČM Club, Mr Luzar. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to one thing that has not been said here by the previous speakers, even though everyone has spoken of an emergency, and that is the division of society. The company is heavily divided into two irreconcilable groups. One is harshly against the emergency situation and demands its immediate cancellation, the other part of the company is for emergency condition and its toughening and sanctions of those ideally shut down those who simply do not wear drapes. You may also receive dozens of e-mails, phone calls, even my friends or acquaintances are torn apart in this and one calls: cancel immediately! Others call me: you need to get tougher because people don't follow that. Let's remember what kind of company we operate in. And it's across the political spectrum. It has nothing to do with politics. It's a big problem that society has gotten into, and the solution to this problem is going to be very, very complicated. We should be aware of this when we call for different alternatives and ideal solutions, and almost all my previous speakers here know the recipe and name the recipe that should be a), what should be b) and how they imagine c), d). Here, I confess, listen to this and not care about this issue, I would be quite unhappy and on the TV screen I would not know what to watch before and to whom to join. That's why I'm going to open up more questions that are more related to the division of society. All the experts say we're gonna have to learn to live with the virus. I guess we'll have to agree to that. However, all experts also say that this should be done until the vaccination is effective. I agree. What will the company do when it comes to a vaccination proposal and a vaccine? Isn't society going to be divided into two irreconcilable groups again? I think I do, unfortunately. We've been through this vaccination in the past, and we're probably gonna go on with it. And here I would also like to draw attention to this big problem that is ahead of us, and so far we are pushing it away because there is no substance. When it is, what will happen? Will it be mandatory, optional? What form will we proceed to this if people are already divided only over possible surface sampling? What's happening in Slovakia, can we tell you what it's going to look like in our country? Is anyone thinking about it? It hasn't sounded anywhere from the official mouth yet. There is talk of an emergency state as the term technicus. I'd slow it down a little bit here, because of course we can give it any name, he could be a pandemic state or some other, but this isn't about the name, maybe even the symbol. This is about what laws will be applied. And today, I remained as steamed again when I read how many claims for compensation have already come to the state at a time of crisis, which was announced at the beginning, when no one knew what it was and what is rushing at us in those spring periods, and these are the billions that various people, individuals and companies demand as compensation for the state. So what reasons do they act on? Why are they doing this? Can we divide it or decide it? It's gonna be a long lawsuit, and they're gonna split up the company again. And there will be those who will say, "Nothing give them," and those who will say, "Give them." And the division of society will happen again, and it will be very difficult. It's called a helping hand. On one side, yes, we want to help, on the other, that the aid is rejected. And we can all give examples here now. The medic went to the hospital, they rejected him for having no need to use him because they don't know how to employ him, for example, they don't know how to reward him, how to include him in the work cycle they have. In another hospital: come immediately, we will take you, perhaps just as a part-time job and others. The vast majority of these measures are about people. People who run hospitals who run retirement homes and school heads. Mr. Secretary, if you don't mind, I'm going to turn to you because you're the only one here who can answer me. We talk - schools, children, but how about teachers? What is happening at the moment in the distance way of teaching with teachers is another huge problem that we are not talking about, and teachers are already suffering from burnout syndrome to such an extent that I was surprised by it. And now we're having fun, and I'm a proponent, for example, to get the schools for the 1st and 2nd grade of primary schools released as quickly as possible, but I'm asking, who is teaching there? And doesn't the seniors teach teachers there, by any chance? How's it looking over there? Can the principal order a teacher, a junior second-grade teacher, to teach those kids in first grade? Because I have information, and I'm not gonna tell you where I'm not to be accused of pointing out that I can't. So, I ask, Minister, is there a methodical instruction from the Ministry that the school principal may, under his authority, order any teacher in his school to go and teach first graders outside his application, because the classic first-year teacher is 60 years old and has syndromes that can be harmful and can be problematic? These are questions that provoke differences in society. And I'm constantly trying to point out that we, as politicians, can't be part of the contradictions, those groups, and put ourselves on one side, or on the other side, and provoke those passions. Unfortunately, it is often heard here, because so far, according to many speakers, the government is the absolute worst and is doing it all wrong. And if we were there, we'd be doing everything we can. But that's not true either, and when we tell each other, the problem with the current society and the pandemic is that it's divided. She just doesn't have empathy. We don't see it, we're categorical, we're supporters or opposers. We're not looking for a match in those groups. And that's the huge problem we're driving society into. And that's why I'd welcome, and there's a new minister for 24 hours, and the poor guy probably hasn't even stopped by yet, given him the chance to give him the opportunity to bring something new, because he's a guy from practice. The first words I intercepted spoke out of my mind, and I was glad that someone had come to talk in a slightly different way about what was coming for us. The chance that the government is asking for in an emergency is the maximum possible law that allows within Parliament. Of course, the government doesn't even have to use it, and we don't even have to provide it. I am able to agree with many here who are talking about the fact that 14 days is so optimal and that Parliament is here to sit down every week and evaluate what is happening in that society. But again, I want to go back to the fact that we have problems that we ourselves sow into society by our activities and divide it. And answers, concrete answers to these problems await citizens. In other words, let's not look for contradictions, but let's look for consensus in citizens, look for consensus in society, and let's approach that. We should be the ones pointing the direction that society should be going, and the division here is huge. If you don't realize that, colleagues, I really wish you guys would get involved in these discussions. Not only to watch it, not only to read it, but to personally participate under your name. Try to join these discussion groups sometime, try, see for yourself that it is not easy at all. And it's not about politics, it's about the nature of a person and his opinions. And that's a huge problem. If there's a government debt somewhere, it's right here in this communication, it's in the cooperation between people and providing information. And the new health minister in his first words promised to correct this, here this thing, so I firmly believe that he will succeed and that it will end. Because there's no other way. But if we keep splitting it up and tearing it up, we're not gonna get anything good. And at this time, it would be the worst thing that could happen to us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u28	Thank you. And with priority rights, Mr. President Bartošek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u29	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Just for a little while. I also had what I wanted to say prepared. I wanted to ask - I don't have who. I wanted to discuss it, and I don't have anyone to talk to. The government is coming to ask for an extension of the emergency, and we have neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Health, anyone who can adequately answer our questions. It's more or less that everyone who gets out here is talking to the wall. Because he asks questions, he tells himself what he needs, but we're not gonna get answers anyway. That's what this is about. That's what this society is sick with and what this House of Deputies is sick with. That the government is not discussing, the government is ordering. That's what damages public space. And if the government wants a change and wants a mandate on such a crucial matter as extending the emergency situation, then it should be worth it for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health to be here to properly justify things and answer questions. That's not happening. I'm sorry, because it's a huge mistake for this government. But we can do it, despite the government. We can do this because we can behave, we can behave better than this government. People of the Czech Republic can behave better than the Czech Government and its Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u30	At this point, with priority rights, no one is logged in, so we're going to go to the applications we have in the debate. The first is Mrs Olga Richterová, who I am giving the floor to and who I will also ask to be the rapporteur of this point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u31	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to be the rapporteur on this point. At the same time, I would like to thank Minister Plag for allowing the meeting of today's House. Without you, Minister, we couldn't possibly be sitting here. That's what I want to show you the sad situation we're in. Although our country formally has a Prime Minister, there are many other ministers, but really, when it comes to extending the emergency situation, or key things with an impact on the whole country, we will not have any answers here other than education. I know there's a mix-up with the press conference of Mr. New Minister of Health, but I want to point out that it's really not okay that we don't get answers as a supervisory authority elected by the citizens of this country. And that's why we think at the pirate club that there's only a 14-day extension. If you count on me, today is the end of October, and the extension of 14 days compared to the current date will be, if I'm not mistaken, by 19 November. That means 20 days from now. So we're talking about the extension we're proposing, 20 days from today's date. This is 20 days of further development that we would like to evaluate the measures, the functioning, the composition of the accounts, as we were chosen to do in this House. And I consider these 20 days to be perfectly justified, reasonable and sound. The problem is that the absent government, with the exception of one minister, will want to do so for another 15 days. Just 35 days from now. On this point, I want to show that it is not possible to want such generosity, yet not to have a regular platform for negotiations with the House, with parliamentary parties, for the involvement of all parliamentary parties in the Central Crisis Staff, for clear information in a way that will show yes, we take you seriously, because we are in a crisis situation and we are all together representing the citizens of our country. On such a platform, whether it be a crisis crew or regular negotiations, we could discuss the proposals that I now have to make here. My colleagues have already lectured them, Ivan Bartoš introduced them to the field of education, Jakub Michálek to the area of statistical information collection, and I will bring to how to involve more people in the health system, in the health care system. But I just want to point out that, in fact, if everything worked in a way that made sense, maximum involvement because of the crisis situation, we would be dealing with this at some other kind of negotiation. The lack of paramedics, which is a key problem in our health system at the moment, has been addressed by the new minister. It is a cork, it is the main limiting factor of care, and therefore we propose very concisely sounding, but we think that to implement a absolutely crucial resolution: Firstly, the Chamber of Deputies obliges the government to involve a maximum number of health care experts in order to manage the pandemic effectively. And secondly, some tips on how to go about it. On this point, we recommend, first, to provide a one-off remuneration of 15 to 20,000 crowns to finance child care for parents under four years of age who will return to health care in the short term, if they are engaged for at least three quarters of a time for at least one month, at a lower level of reduction. Reason: Such a child - care allowance for parents of young children would clearly motivate health professionals, doctors, nurses on parental leave, all those who know that there is unfortunately a higher risk of disease in a collective establishment, and when they are in a kindergarten, they mix and there is a really great risk of getting infected. At the same time, they are also people whose children are too small. Too small for parents to want to put them in a collective establishment. That's a key recommendation. It's already in the hands of Minister Blatný. We sent it to all the presidents of the MPs. And the point is that there would be a need for the government to motivate this voluntary aid not only through a financial contribution but also through coordination. We would recommend the creation of a database that would link those paramedics who would be interested in temporary assistance and medical facilities that need help. We also recommend that this assistance be included in specialization education. So that is one of the recommendations for practically increasing the number of people in health care. Point two. To enable the systematic involvement of experts in volunteering, especially because of possible crossing of possible contractual hours, where it is not always possible to give employment contracts and, at the same time, the equipment from the field is a clear request, a call for us to adjust the limits of the law on volunteering. In order not to apply the limits of Section 8 (2) for the period of the notified emergency measures. In order for organisations to be able to conclude contracts for professional activities within the recipient organisations, the provisions of this Act shall apply. So that's the second practical point. [[14.10 hours]] The third concerns - to examine the possibility of preparing a single portal for registration of volunteers and demand of individual regions and institutions managed by the Ministry of Health. It's an option, an opportunity to inspire, for example. existing websites. Let's give an example - I want to help.cz. It's an opportunity for this coordination, this challenge to go nationwide, the offer of people who may have two residences to go together. It would be ideal, and we wish our state could handle it. That was point three. Point four - involve students of science and biomedical disciplines outside the medical faculty just in the collection capacities and in testing, bonify these students in the same way as the medics. It offers the possibility to use e.g. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man . Coronavirus labs have completed the entire infrastructure, everything that would be needed. This would be a point four to make the professionals in the field of sampling and laboratory analysis easier. A point five - consider supporting the acquisition of oxygen concentrates and medical suction pumps e.g. home for seniors, thus enabling treatment of lighter cases in facilities where people are used to staying long-term, provided that the equipment is also equipped on a professional basis. This fifth point would allow a number of cases to remain in social facilities and, in turn, would ease hospitals. It is a point based on experience from abroad, about consultation with our facilities again. This support for the acquisition of oxygen concentrates and medical suctions is something I would like the Ministry to consider very much, and it is something that would mean a really functional link between the social and health system. And that is the subject that I would like to end this contribution. It is a big issue that all the work that will be done in social facilities to protect seniors in homes, in regular testing of social services workers, all this work will return to the fact that hospitals will not be overwhelmed. Therefore, I would appeal very much to the new Minister and Minister Maláčová, also unfortunately absent from this meeting, to really address effective ways not only of protection and prevention, but also possible solutions within those senior homes. They can do it anywhere and are limited by only their financial and organizational possibilities of a small facility. Once again, we are presenting a comprehensive motion for a resolution for the pirát. I introduced points 1 and 2 and that point 2 was divided into five areas: to provide a one-off reward; the babysitting bonus for health professionals - parents of young children who are on maternity or parental; point two - to enable the systematic involvement of experts in volunteering; Third, a single volunteer registration portal; fourth, involve science and biomedical students; Fifth, consider the oxygen concentrates and the medical suctions to senior homes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u32	Thank you, too. Next is Mr. Petr Třešňák, to whom I hereby give the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u33	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. I'm gonna keep up with my colleague Olga Richterová. As has already been mentioned several times on our part, the pirát have taken and have always taken the fight against pandemics, including most of the related measures, very seriously, but we have always asked that this be really smart measures instead of turning the economy on and off, and many proposals here, whether in plenary in the House or on the Health Committee in the last six months, have been heard by us. Because if we really want to win the pandemic, we must not plunge the country into economic prehistoric times at the same time. So I take that word to win more in quotation marks, first of all, we have to learn to function normally with the virus. That is also why today, in the context of the vote on extending the emergency situation, we want to call on the government to prepare measures for a normal life with a covid, with respect, of course, for its seriousness, but above all without fear. But the current government measures are going in a slightly different direction. They are very discriminatory to retail stores, and because in these two months retail accounts form a significant part of their annual turnover, these current measures are in fact completely liquidation, taking into account that this government has driven citizens into large hypermarkets, which can actually continue to sell e.g. clothing, footwear and other goods, while the said specialised stores did not, despite the fact that according to the available data it was in small premises that the spread of the disease almost did not occur. If we are talking about extending the emergency situation today, we generally see it as a legal framework not only for individual government measures, but also especially for related compensation. We therefore propose a series of several resolutions to save retail outlets, which can actually continue to work under clearly given conditions. As far as, for example, it is possible that: on the area of other solutions, so here again we want to appeal to the government to better promote the application of eRoušek, mostly those channels that will not burden the state budget, such as public media, but also the government's press conference itself. [[unintelligible]] In fact, we repeatedly talk about better promotion of eRouška application from August, and until October - and I take it as a positive thing - there has been at least a transmission of text messages with requests for its installation. We have also sent an open letter to the Ministry of Health on 3 September, including examples from other countries, where this is the case and for similar applications. Let me therefore mention the series of resolutions for this area: Chamber of Deputies 1. Calls for the actions of the Government against the pandemic to be, as far as possible, linked to the pandemic traffic light, as requested by the Chamber of Deputies by Resolution No. Regulation (EC) No 1162 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 June 2020 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 (OJ L 8, 12.1.2003, p. 1). in Ireland, and presented it to the public using billboards, public media and web pages with an image of an adapted region, such as: On the web potrebujurousku.cz. 2. The Chamber of Deputies notes that by closing the sale of footwear, paper, electrical, clothing, sporting goods and other retail products, while leaving large hypermarkets with this product range in operation, there has been an unjustified disproportion in a market environment which leads to the decimation of business status, increasing the concentration of people in stores and higher risk of disease. 3. It asks that, in the absence of a complete reduction in all sectors of the economy and that large hypermarkets continue to be opened, the government should allow retail operations under the same non-discriminatory conditions taking into account the serious epidemiological situation, thereby contributing to reducing the risk concentration of persons. 4. It imposes predictable measures on the government to save retail establishments with clearly defined parameters for the maintenance of trade - regular disinfection of premises, ventilation, maximum numbers of persons, time of stay, separation, disinfection at entry, the obligation to use gloves or other disposable protective equipment. The closing of establishments according to the overall size is inadmissible, but it is essential to regulate the number of customers at the premises. 5. It obliges the government to introduce increased mandatory separations between persons other than persons attending events, families and groups of persons defined by traffic lights or different customers at stadiums, mass events in restaurants, tables, in all regions of grade 2 - orange and above, or in respect of events exceeding 50 persons. 6. Savings to the Government of the Czech Republic I. To introduce testing at regular intervals, e.g. Every week, all employees of social services, all employees of social facilities for vulnerable groups in regions of type 2 and above in order to find out if infected in time and thus avoid uncontrolled dissemination among clients. - So it practically means creating mobile sampling teams and going around these devices with them in a given interval. [[14.20 hours]] II. Simplify and streamline central public procurement by, for example, speeding up the negotiation of the amendment to the Public Procurement Act, submitted by Pirates, KDU-ČSL, ODS, STAN and TOP 09, House Press 951. III. Name one person responsible for communicating all future measures that will communicate them clearly, in advance times and on well-known channels. IV. Continue to promote eRousek's application in the public interest through primarily public media and public government outputs. Bonify its use by, for example, discounts on the purchase of vitamins in the pharmacy, discounts on tests on COVID-19 in the case of self-applies and so on. I have already passed this series of resolutions on to the rapporteur, so I am counting on them to be repeated at the end with the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u34	Thank you. The next in line is Mr Ondřej Profant. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u35	Thank you. Guys, first of all, I would like to respond to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš's opening remarks, who was talking about a reboot of the economy. I think we can agree that it is absolutely necessary. He clearly told us that Vice Prime Minister Havlíček was in charge. Both of my colleagues, please don't make this economic reboot look like we're going to rebuild the assembly rooms and pour concrete. We need an economy ready for the 21st century, dynamic and flexible, one that can deal with similar crises, because they can come more often now. If we get through this, if we find the vaccine, it doesn't mean we're out. It's just the world is globalized, there's a lot of people. Diseases are simply one of the major threats, and that is why we really need a high-quality modern structure of the economy. I'm asking you again. And now for the motion for a resolution, or for my original speech. Once again, the government is asking us to extend the emergency. It must be said that this is purely because it failed to cope with the situation and, according to the statements of some ministers, it did not even try to cope. The situation in August and September was completely ignored, although the figures were clear. All I had to do was work with them. As my colleagues have already said, we are afraid that the total unpreparedness of government will not be repeated, because once again the crisis will not end with this wave falling away. The disease, the dangers will continue with us. If we don't take good measures, if we don't start communicating properly, we won't explain to the citizens why this is necessary, so we can have a third wave in January. And I don't think any of us want that. That is why the pirát have prepared a rather extensive resolution that gives some kind of framework direction. And I will introduce you to part B of this resolution that deals with digitalization, because digitalization is what can really help us limit contact and therefore limit unwanted transmission of disease. A lot of other measures are restrictive, these can be quite positive. None of us get tired of standing in line for a driver's license, none of us get tired of going to the authorities for the same paperwork and so on, and yet these problems have a simple solution. Here are five points that are really feasible, not some air locks. We have selected such points that really the government can always de facto deliver by its resolution. Simply take them and use them. 1. Data reports among private entities free of charge, as was the case in spring. That's very important. If we have an electronic communications system that's guaranteed, that's great. The problem is he's not available to many people. For example, a lot of banks have deactivated data boxes and so on. Well, we have to motivate them to use these methods instead of contact or other forms. Here I have information that the Ministry of the Interior is already submitting this amendment to the Government, or honourable colleagues, to vote against this point in the resolution would actually be to vote against the Government. It is a really simple measure that we have tried from spring. 2. We want the state to communicate by e-mail and phone. Very simple. What's so weird about that anyway? The strange thing is that the state bureaucratically hides behind recommended letters, personal visits, and so on, and elementary things can't tell us in any more operational way. We saw already in the spring in the case of some subsidy programs that this is possible; that not always need an officially verified signature and similar, really very difficult to obtain and challenging things, but that simply can suffice a simple email, or if you need to in the application for a grant or support error, so just one phone call and fix it. Point 3 is closely related to this, and this is to accelerate the application of the law on the right to digital service, in particular the part that talks about the entry of contact data into the basic registers. That's the easiest thing to do. Let us have centrally the e-mails and phones of our residents, i.e. those who want to hand them over, so that we can communicate with them in such a simple and undemanding way. There's nothing complicated about it. Let's just do it. We've even already approved it, we just need to shift the effectiveness of part of the law. Point 4 is home office. Working from home is important. I know there are facilities where it can't be done, but there are still very many operations where it can, or maybe it can be partially done. And the state must set an example. So it's important for the state to make sure that there's a home office in the state administration where it's possible. The state must set an example for the private sector and also for self-government. 5. The last point is to prefer really digital documents, so-called digital born, digitally born, because the state is constantly working with document documents or scans of document documents. It is uncomfortable for all parties, it is significantly more demanding on the volume of data, for processing. It is difficult to search them in fulltext and so on, and it makes the home office more difficult. As a result, you need more specialised software, more demanding software. I guess each of us can handle an e-mail. Then why isn't it that simple in the file service? That's really not... There are no material reasons for this, only the reasons for this are commonplace. So, my dear colleagues, this is part B of our pirate resolution, and I beg your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u36	Thank you. Member Marian Bojko will speak in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u37	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully to the speech of the new Minister of Health. I would agree with him more or less in some passages. I don't know him, according to all references, he's a respected expert with contacts in the Western world. [[14.30 hours]] So whom I could never recognize, that was the last Minister Prymula. And I'm surprised the demo deputies here didn't mind that this guy was in a brutal conflict of interest. That's why he was fired from the hospital director's post. Next thing. He wasn't able to get security clearance for the Deputy Minister, but he didn't need it to be the Minister of Health. So for me, this guy was untrustworthy, and I never trusted him. His speech at the time, when he challenged us all and begged us to go through the suite as somewhere in the crematorium at the catafalk, and yet escaped footage, where he joked happily before this press conference, or before the speech, without the drapes. For me, it's just an untrustworthy person. Not to mention his extempora when they were caught in that restaurant. And we have always been called: "Keep the rules! Follow the rules! Don't go anywhere! Sit home!" No one in my family or I has been abroad this year. We were sitting at home. The Prime Minister flew to Crete. Now Mr. Vice-President, or former Vice-President of Faltýnek, you went abroad, too. And We were called, "Hold your loved ones! Sit home!" We're sitting at home. Personally, we had three weddings planned this year. Unfortunately, two of us had to cancel because we have such a huge family that the number we would have had in there, we'd rather cancel the weddings. We made one. It was summer. Praise the Lord for that. As for funerals, that's total nonsense. Ten people at the funeral. We've got supermarkets all over us. Nobody cares. It's the same for the service. A lot, or now, I learned yesterday that no wreaths can be sold in front of those cemeteries, that those stallions can't sell it. I think that's bullshit, too. It's out. It's just wrong. I don't understand the limitations here. Yesterday, I read that the World Health Organization more or less admitted that it's not a pandemic, it's just the flu, maybe with some kind of harder course. And in that context, I was shocked by what was happening in Slovakia. I think Slovakia is driving a total psychopath because I can't say anything else about him when I see his speeches. Just because you're negative for having a negative test doesn't mean you're negative. Well, I don't really understand how someone can leak something like that. The flat-screen testing they're proposing... At the same time, their entire medical union refuses to accept that it just doesn't make any sense at all, or the medical chamber, that it's counterproductive, that it can't do anything. Yesterday I learned that in our region in Moravian-Silesian region, more or less every third test is positive. That means if we run 40,000 tests, let's say 15,000 tests are positive. What does that mean, the tests are positive? People don't have any symptoms, they just learn they're positive. If I take it in context, there are 200 of us in the House, 81 of us are in the Senate, the government, 300 of us together, so if they test us all, 100 of us will be positive. No one knows about it, we're all healthy, but we'll be positive, we'll be quarantined. That's what this is about. Then there's a terrible lack of medical personnel, because people aren't sick, they're just positive or they're quarantined, they've met someone, and the staff is missing. So, personally, I'd be pushing the Minister to open the first-degree primary schools. I see it in my house. We have a granddaughter in first grade. Do you know what the burden is for those parents? Even if the baby's smart, everything. I think if this goes on for another month, he'll never catch up. It's just the kids are like shit, their brains. They're able to absorb everything. But those parents at home never give them what those teachers at school gave them. So I think it's awfully wrong that if that special education is allowed, a special class I've heard you want to cancel again, I don't know if that's a good idea. We're just creating an atmosphere of fear here. Family breaks up because some guys just can't handle it, they drink at home. According to a friend who's the head of the city police, the number of violence in the families is increasing. They can't handle teaching. They can't handle distance classes here. Not to mention that there are families where parents study distance, like college, one kid has distance high school, and they have a first-year student. You can't do this. I just can't. So clearly for me - I will not vote to prolong the emergency because I see no reason to vote. And I would really appeal to the Minister, which is the basic thing for these people, open those schools, and we'll have enough of that staff. We'll have enough because moms and sometimes dads sit at home in sickbay instead of working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u38	Good afternoon, honourable Members. I thank Mr Bojka. Now, Mr Martin Kupka, as has been announced, with the opinion of the ODS MEP. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u39	Mr President, Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to present the opinion of the ODS MEP and, at the same time, to draw up some concrete resolutions that are looking forward to helping us to better manage the situation. The most serious thing about the current situation is undoubtedly the disruption of people's trust in the state. I do not want to repeat all the misconceptions and conflicting decisions of the current government. Just take as we all have welcomed the moderate speech now by the Prymula ex-minister, who indicated that communication with the public will change. What's left of it? It's just disappointment again. Disappointment to the public that perhaps the Czech government could learn and regain confidence in such important measures. Now we're re-recording from the new minister the promise to speak more to the opposition. We so strongly hope that this time this will not be accompanied by further disappointment, and we want to add to this the very resolutions mentioned above that oblige the government to speak more openly with the opposition. At the same time, we would like to call for a re-evaluation of recent measures, which, however, are directed against the declared meaning. While other states extend opening hours or at least limit it, in the Czech Republic there was a decision to close shops on Sunday. At the same time, in other states, the effort to limit social contacts is a clear indication for the expansion of time. Similarly, the closure of retail businesses actually points to the incompetence of the measures once again in favour of large hypermarkets. And we are calling for the government to set criteria for the future, which Europe knows, which set up for such cases, that the number of people evolve from the size of the sales area, so that the measures really follow their purpose precisely to prevent further unnecessary social contacts. This is what the government should be watching, and it should be watching better. On our part, concrete proposals that are being made for the future. Let us look at the material with which the government approached us for today's discussion of the extension of the emergency situation. From the beginning we are calling for both the Czech public and the House to have credible outlooks, interpretations of data, epidemiological models on the basis of which it is decided. Instead? We received a document that records the current situation several days ago, but no outlook, no predictions, no epidemiological models to lean on. In addition, the public can read, for example, the real models of the Centre for the Modeling of Biological and Social Processes, BISOP, which are obviously much more skeptical than what we have heard from the government today. And certainly both the Chamber of Deputies and the Czech public would deserve confrontation and expression by the government, how experts are taking these views and how they come from it. [[14.40 hours]] Let's get to the point. Let's go to how to stand up to a proposal to prolong an emergency. We are aware of the need to prolong the emergency situation, especially with regard to the situation in Czech hospitals and the fact that they will face a unique burden on patients with serious complications. And we realize that in order to help them effectively, it will be necessary to extend the emergency situation in order to involve the military, students and possibly other volunteers. We understand that, but we are linking the important challenge to this precisely after all the craziness and misconceptions, so that the government - first of all - discusses all the other measures with the opposition, and, of course, we want to prevent nonsense and unnecessary misconceptions from introducing them and add further arguments and substantive solutions. That is, the discussion of all other measures before their introduction with opposition throughout the Chamber of Deputies. Secondly, from the beginning, we say that we want not only current data, but logically also outlooks, what must happen when the state of B, C and D occurs. So we are calling for the government to make a plan available for further easing these measures, and that plan takes into account possible scenarios for the further development of the epidemiological situation. Two very specific points, which are then reflected in the motion for our resolution. It is clear that everyone here, I think there can be no exception, after all, at the beginning of our mandates we promised it, so it is clear that we want to participate in making the best possible comparison between the Czech Republic and the crisis so that it can best overcome the critical moments. We want open communication, supported by estimates of further developments and epidemiological models. And we really don't want that much. We want to do exactly that so that we can prevent nonsense and complete it with further arguments and other good solutions. We're ready to meet repeatedly. We consider the extension of the emergency situation to be a very serious matter and we believe that it deserves shorter intervals to evaluate the need for further extension. If we want to reassure everyone who is painfully affected by the current situation, please give a clear signal that we are progressing rationally, that we are carefully assessing the arguments and we will not take further steps without a good balance sheet, without justification, and also without a plan to further release those measures following the evolution of the epidemiological situation. And we also want accurate data. Even in this situation, we see a problematic figure of 180,000 currently infected, and of course the number is growing further, but it does not take into account the significant number of those who have recovered. We also consider this important for the proper assessment of the condition. I would therefore like to read our resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to extend the emergency situation throughout the Czech Republic to 13. 11, for 14 days. We have set out the reasons for this resolution. We consider it really important that decisions be made at shorter intervals, based on current outlooks, based on rational arguments. If this resolution did not pass, we would even like to propose another: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to extend the emergency situation throughout the Czech Republic until 20 November. I mean, an extension of three Sundays. Now the remaining joint resolution as a call to the government: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic requires the Government of the Czech Republic to discuss all the new measures planned before their publication, duly and intelligibly explaining them. Furthermore: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic requires the Government of the Czech Republic to prepare an evaluation of the measures implemented, forecasts of further developments and realistic epidemiological models for possible further negotiations on the extension of the new state. [[emergency]] Furthermore: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic requires the Government to prepare and present to the public a plan to release measures for various scenarios of the evolution of the epidemiological situation. Furthermore: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic obliges the Government to activate the personnel and bed capacity of the spa, which are suitable for the placement of patients with COVID-19 disease, who do not require acute hospitalization, but medical facilities cannot release them for home treatment. Furthermore: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic obliges the Government to extend the range of compensation also for entrepreneurs and businesses indirectly affected by government measures in connection with the disease COVID-19. Furthermore: The Chamber of Deputies requires the Government of the Czech Republic to take the following steps in the field of education, namely: 1. set up a training crisis team to discuss proposals for measures in the field of education, consisting of representatives of the ministries of health and education, epidemiologists and representatives of all kinds of schools and educational establishments, 2. to present the criteria for opening schools and educational establishments, 3. to ensure the conditions for opening first and second grades of primary school as soon as possible, [[4.]] to ensure, as soon as possible, the conditions for allowing consultations for pupils preparing for the single entrance exam, final examination and graduation exam, 5. to ensure the purchase of computers for secondary schools as implemented for primary schools, 6. to ensure support for distance learning for pupils and families in the form of data connection strengthening. Thank you very much for your attention. I will, of course, pass the resolution on to the President, and I want to emphasise once again that all points are aimed at contributing also to regaining people's trust in the state itself. They're heading for the future, heading for the current crisis. There was no criticism for criticism. These are concrete, material points that would allow the situation to rule better.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u40	Thank you, Mr Kupek. I ask that you pass the resolution on to the rapporteur in particular, who is following the debate, which will then be recorded in the vote. We will continue with Mr Vít Kaňkovský's speech, Václav Klaus will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u41	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, Minister, dear colleagues, colleagues. Let me also be involved in the discussion of the Government's request for an extension of the emergency situation, adding the opinion of the President of our Jan Bartošek MP who has already spoken. I could follow up on a number of previous speakers who have been talking about a number of aspects of the situation at this time in the Czech Republic with regard to the pandemic of the new SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus. I must say that, as a health care professional, I will focus mainly on the health aspects, and I will no longer talk about some of the very important matters that colleagues from the Pirate Party, colleague Kupka and some others have been talking about. I would like to start by stressing that the KDU-ČSL parliamentary club is prepared to support the extension of the emergency situation by three weeks at the moment, and I must say that, on the basis of the discussion that will still take place here, we are, if necessary, ready to support the 30-day extension, but I think that - as has already been said here today - the Chamber of Deputies is ready to monitor further epidemiological developments, further developments in the filling of our medical facilities, and I think that the 30-day deadline is unnecessary. In addition, we will meet here at a meeting in a variable week. We have heard a lot of words here today, like the Prime Minister, from Minister Blatný, whom I thank for thinking very rationally discussing the situation, what it looks like at the moment in medical facilities, but we have not heard much about the damaged trust of citizens in the steps of the government, the damaged trust in measures that are being taken or possibly prolonged at the moment. [[14.50 hours]] I have been here many times as an opposition politician, an opposition MP, very critical towards this government. But I must say, it is not my mission today. I am convinced that in the situation we are in, we should join forces. And I can say for KDU-ČSL that we tried to work intensively with the government during the first wave, and so we are also prepared at this time. But if we are to come to the conclusion that we want to restore the corrupted public confidence in government measures in some way, then we must be very effective, very rational and also very trustworthy. From this point of view, I welcome the words made by Minister Blatný here today, but, of course, this is a start. Those words we've heard here today will need to be responded to by a lot of very effective and fast steps. I did not have the opportunity to watch the entire press conference of Minister Blatný, which he had a few moments ago, but yet there were several important moments, to which we will certainly return to the meeting of the Health Committee next week. Anyway, if we think about the situation we're in right now, there are some serious risks that we really need to address first. The one risk is the gradual fulfillment of our medical facilities that we've been talking about. And maybe we can argue here about whether the situation is still viable, whether it's border or whether it's already a big threat. I'm not the kind of person who wants to scare, which is why I'm not going to say at this point that the situation is horrible. But if I can talk about the situation in the Highlands, I've been in the hospital for days now, so I can really say it from the first one. Indeed, the beds for covid patients, but even non-covid patients are gradually filling, and it has already been said here today, is not the biggest problem that we are gradually filling the beds, but the biggest problem is really the lack of health workers. And if it is necessary for the new minister to focus on something, it is precisely communication with the regions, communication with health care coordinators in individual regions, so that we can be able in the following two weeks at least, when we can expect the culture of the second wave, to provide care for all patients who need this care especially in intensive beds. And here I wanted to raise one big appeal towards the Minister, who is unfortunately not here. If there is something that health professionals are worried about in the regions at the moment, it is a situation where regional health in a particular region will no longer be able to accommodate all patients who need care. The Zlín Region is in this situation at this time, not quite a good situation is also needed in the Karlovy Vary Region. And we have not yet heard from the representatives of the Central Crisis Staff, from the Ministry of Health or from the government as a whole, how practical assistance between regions will be implemented. I know that the Association of Regionals is involved, but the Association of Regionals without the assistance of the Ministry of Health can't do it alone. We're seeing photos here about how we're building two backup hospitals, which is certainly a good thing, I think we could use these hospitals, but no one said who's really gonna work in those hospitals. That means, I think the primary task is to ensure that patients can be redistributed between regions, but there must be clear rules. And even though we have crisis legislation here, we have a pandemic plan here, so in practice, it must have the practicalities. It must be clear when the coordinator in the region finds that he no longer has the capacity for other patients to contact and who will ensure the distribution of those patients to other regions or health establishments in other regions. We can't deal with this as we go along, we have to get ahead of ourselves, because otherwise we're gonna get in big trouble. We've been talking over and over again over the past few months about testing, we could spend maybe two hours here again. I ask why, when in April, May, we are in this place - and not just me, but also colleague Olga Richterová and some others - they talked about the need to set up a test plan, to use all possible capacities, academic workplaces and other laboratories, why these capacities did not increase over the summer. It's clear that now, at this point, they've already increased, we've already gotten some 45,000 tests, but still, if we've got a uniform yield on those tests, that is. One third of the tests are positive, so we can conclude from this two things - first of all, that viral load by new coronavirus in the population is very high, and secondly, that the percentage of testing respectively. the number of tests is still very inadequate. So, from my point of view, these are very important things that need the government, in turn, to devote itself very intensively to the Ministry of Health in the coming days. And then I will follow up on Mr Martin Kupka's words. The public, and not only the professional public, health professionals, but also all citizens of this country want to know what scenarios are coming up in the next few weeks. We can't tell from a crystal ball, but there's only one person in this country who has the money, but we have the models, we have the institutions that are able to model. And the public needs to know how these models are going to work. Because if we want to restore citizens' confidence in government action, citizens need to know that when the xy situation occurs, that is, the reproductive number will shift to some limit, the fullness of health facilities will be at some level, so the government will somehow proceed. It is also necessary to say how we will proceed with testing if we continue to increase the number of infected in the population. It is really necessary to prepare for the fact that until we have an effective vaccine in sufficient quantities for our population, we will meet with coronavirus again in some waves and we will have to continue testing, we will have to continue tracking. And in a way, the government froze here, and unfortunately, it didn't use the summer season to prepare for the situation of the second wave. And if we're still talking about critical infrastructure, about what medical professionals in hospitals, paramedics, home health care medics, social services medics, but also social workers are experiencing at the moment, it's very uncertain. And I could, of course, add other critical infrastructure professions to them. All these employees are working at the maximum that they are capable of, but they need to hear the government's clear support that the government won't let them do it. And it's not just about salary. I talk about it many times with my nurses in the department, with my fellow doctors. Of course, everyone wants to get a rating on the payroll that they're working at 120 percent, but they're also interested in other conditions, i.e. sufficient protective equipment, but also certain legal safeguards. At this point, a number of paramedics are starting to work in jobs for which they are not qualified, because within the scope of redistribution to covido departments, they are coming to a section of work for which they do not have a certificate. And I've repeatedly opened it up at the Health Committee meeting, but so far we haven't received any valid answers from the Health Department. This also applies to doctors, volunteers, and other people who want to help at this stage. So, my dear colleagues, in conclusion, allow me yet an appeal towards the government of this Republic in a situation which, in my opinion, is absolutely unprecedented and which I hope we will not meet in the coming years. Representatives of the government, at this point, try to empathize with the role of those who are in the front line. And I don't just mean paramedics, I mean all those who help in this situation. Give them clear, understandable information, as well as citizens of this country. Stand up for them. And then I am convinced that we are able to handle this situation. But we can't do this without mutual trust, even here in the Chamber of Deputies. If we're talking about extending the emergency and there's one virtually right now. At this point, the two honored ministers that I appreciate, however, I think that the subject we are discussing today is not the very first one, so it again gives cause for some mistrust, and I think that is not right in this situation. [[Minister Plaga and Minister Zaoralek]] In conclusion, the KDU-ČSL MP will support the extension of the emergency situation by three weeks or thirty days on the basis of an ongoing discussion. And I call on the government to actually address the most pressing problems, at least towards health, but certainly in all the other areas mentioned by colleagues and colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u42	Thank you, Mr Vít Kaňkovský. I'll ask my colleague Václav Klaus to wait. Jan Chvojka, a colleague of the Czechoslovak Parliamentary Club, came forward with priority rights. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u43	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good Friday afternoon, colleagues. I originally wanted to inform the House that there is a government meeting, and that is why there is a part or part of the ministers and the minister is not. I've just learned that the government is not sitting. I believe that ministers have other important tasks to do, because it is true that at least a larger part of the government should be here. I will at least excuse our President, Vice-President of the Interior Minister Jan Hamáček, because he is unfortunately in quarantine, and of course if he didn't have to be in the quarantine, he would be ready to sit here and answer questions and complaints, of course, to you, my dear colleague and colleagues. As far as the ČSSD MP club is concerned, I think that you cannot expect this opinion from me other than that, logically, the ČSSD MP will support the extension of the emergency situation as a government party club. Ideally about those 30 days, that's until December 3rd. In fact, as a lawyer, and it has been said more than once, an emergency is a legal framework that is essential for the government to respond effectively, effectively, ideally quickly, as best as possible to the situation that, if we look at the numbers, is not good. As for the speeches that were here before me, whether speeches by colleagues from the opposition or the coalition, especially those from the opposition, I feel that they have understood the importance of extending the emergency situation. Maybe now we'll just meet up about whether we need to extend the emergency to 14 days, or 14 days, and then meet again in 14 days, or three weeks, and meet again. Let's see. I think the prognosis we have, from these graphs, I think it follows that thinking like that is useless. That the numbers won't be better in the next 30 days, so please, let's extend the emergency situation to the maximum possible deadline given by the law. That means 30 days, until December 3rd of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u44	I thank Mr Jan Chvojka. Now, Mr Václav Klaus, Martin Jiránek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u45	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to Tricolor's position on emergency status. Tricolors do not support government measures. It doesn't mean that we underestimate the disease, no doubt for a small part of the elderly in particular, it's a very serious disease. We merely think that the spread of the virus and confused government measures are connected very little. These are not just curfews, outdoor market bans, etc. If we look at the map, the virus is spread all over the country. A long time ago, Prague is the most infected place. So what can be deduced from this? The virus spreads, it spreads in homes, it spreads in workplaces, it spreads here in the House, it curls up again, and it leaves again, just like it left in April worldwide, regardless of which governments had draconian measures and which almost none. We simply think that the death of society is not the answer. The company is supposed to be vital, to give birth to children, to make oxygen masks, to mass-hunt replacements and employees to the hospital sector, to mass-hunt human resources for tracking etc., but it is not the solution to drive everyone home and leave it to a few hundred brave nurses and doctors to do it for them. Similar situations are kindergartens. I'll stick to it for a while as a long-term educator. Today and every day I talk to the desperate wives of kindergartens and say one thing: We have half the staff there because half of our colleagues are babysitting at home because you shut down the first grade of primary schools. There's not even a cleaning lady there anymore, so I still have to clean up the baby's toilets and then I'm going home with the kids to study. I can't see the frustration they're experiencing. Because the worst thing he feels is, you guys left us alone. If this company worked, it worked, everyone understands that it's a very difficult situation, and in some way it's going to work. But we really don't support this dying alive. I'm not illusioned that a majority here will approve some kind of emergency. I'm sure the government will take some other measures, probably some tough ones. I'm thinking, to make it a little easier, maybe burning one fifth of the houses drawn in the most infected areas is also a tough measure. What does this have to do with suppressing the spread of the virus? No way, but it's a precaution. Well, at a time like this, it kind of feels like we're alive. I am pleased to note a slightly different rhetoric of the new Minister of Health, so I hope that common sense and some kind of effort to make the company live, which alone can overcome this. Because we're not going to get to zero the same way, the virus is going to be here in some way, like other diseases. And we must face it as a viable human race. That's our conviction, which is why I'm not going to support your extension of emergency situations, as well as the whole Trikólora. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u46	Thank you, Mr. Václav Klaus. And now Martin Jiránek will have the floor, Stanislav Grospič will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u47	Hello, colleagues, I want to respond to the Prime Minister. In his speech, he stressed the rebooting of an economy based on the transformation of industry, energy and transport and added information on a recovery plan based on digitization, smart investment, strengthening science, education and the labour market. I'm sure all this is important. But here we have an area that is most affected by the current crisis, and which suffers the most in this crisis, and that area is tourism. The share of tourism, including the multiplier effects on GDP, is 6 percent. The volume of work is 370 thousand full-time jobs, and according to recent analyses it is estimated that these jobs will fall by up to 60 percent. The revenue from tourism to the state budget and other public budgets was CZK 125 billion in 2019. The decline in 2020 is estimated at 78 billion, so tourism will go to the budget instead of 125 billion less than 50 billion this year. So tourism is really critical and there will be a lot of work to be done to restore it. And it is very bad for me when in the entire recovery plan, where 180 billion crowns are prepared for the recovery of the economy, there is no word about tourism. I appeal to you, Prime Minister, to negotiate with the Minister for Regional Development Dostálová to incorporate sophisticated and effective projects for the restoration of tourism into the recovery plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u48	I thank Mr Martin Jiránek. Mr Stanislav Grospič will now appear, and Kateřina Valachová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u49	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, honourable members of the Government, dear colleagues, allow me also a few comments on the point that we are discussing today and where we will decide shortly whether to prolong the emergency situation in the Czech Republic and how many days. We know there's a proposal here to extend the emergency for 30 days. And we also know that there have been a number of amendments here, and perhaps some will be heard to prolong this emergency situation, but for a shorter period, and then to evaluate and choose a way to extend or yes or no. I am based on the practical experience experienced by the Czech Republic in the spring, which we experienced in the summer. I don't want to touch anyone right now, and please take it in general, not specifically to the individual, what I'm going to say here, and what I'm going to say here. It was a right-wing opposition. It was the right-wing opposition that demanded that the measures taken in the spring be released as quickly as possible. Get the company back to normal as soon as possible. And I have no doubt that most of the public, including my loved ones, also called for it and also desired that society return to normal life as soon as possible and overcome the crisis that we experienced in the spring months. [[15.10 hours]] The problem was that while countries in Europe, such as England, Italy, Spain, countries that could not be considered as backwards, Belgium, counted thousands of deaths, including the United States of America, so the Czech Republic, thanks to the very peaceful course of this pandemic wave, saw it as something absolutely fundamental when protective measures must be followed, but to some extent they are excessive and useless. Yet the economy has been shut down for a month and a half, and now I don't want to be wrong, and a number of restrictive measures. We know that shutting down the economy is not entirely desirable, that the crisis economy cannot stop, and that even the COVID support programmes or the discussions that are conducted on the basis of the Cursarbeit Act, which will certainly not see the light of day for its complexity, do not solve the situation that occurs in the economy and in terms of the decline in employers' income, and thus the question reflected in the wages and salaries of their employees. The way I see it, however, is that people also perceive that the situation has turned around, that this time a pandemic crisis has erupted fully in the Czech Republic and is gradually entering the surrounding states of the European Union, and therefore they are following measures that are mentioned from Belgium, from France, for example, and they are much harder, but also from Germany itself, than in the Czech Republic. Yeah, maybe they're different in sub-measures. Schools are allowed while we're not. I also think that we should consider the issue of education, because it is a primary question, a question of education, a question of basic habits, and especially of the youngest school years by compulsory schools, which fall out completely, and it may be wrong that they are separated from it, unlike the years of elders, who still have some encrypted schooling habit and school responsibilities, and then it is much easier to reintegrate them into the school process. That's one of the moments I'd expect to hear from the government. I understand that, and I acknowledge the words of the new Minister Blatný that we must not be afraid of this pandemic, but we must have respect for it. And that respect will be that we may set an example and follow the basic hygiene measures, regulations that the government adopts, even if we like them, or seem exaggerated, and we will say that if we want to overcome these difficulties together, then we must all follow them, even if we do not like them, even if they are restrictive, but that if we comply with them, we will observe them for a limited period of time and then the time of dislodge will come. I am leaning here on a proposal from the government and also from the House to extend the emergency by 30 days. Prosaic considerations lead me to this. And I'm not an epidemiologist, and I'm not a doctor. If the experts, the epidemiologists, agree that this disease has some course, about ten days, if it is said that the peak wave, if there is no major break, will come around mid-November, then those own statistical estimates on the basis of numbers that are officially published, say that essentially this peak will be reduced very slowly by the beginning of December and maybe even longer. And maybe we'll be standing here sometime at the end of November, and we'll figure out if there's still a need to extend the emergency for a while, like another two weeks. But in terms of, for example, entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, small businessmen, and in terms of schools and education, I think it is very important and important that we send them a signal that we mean it strategically seriously in the long run, to deal with this pandemic, to limit its reach to the minimum, but also to give them a certain perspective that in ten days we will not be standing here and they will not be desperately addressing whether they will run or not their establishment, whether they will be able to do business, whether they can participate, whether they can invite their employees or stand before further restrictions, because society and the health system will not be able to manage these pandemic measures. So from this point of view, I think that the thirty days are a logical starting point, which gives large space and, after all, Parliament's right of control. And at every next meeting, and next week we will meet at the amendment to the Construction Act, nothing prevents us from hearing information about how the state is developing, how the Health Ministry is progressing, how the government is progressing, how the crisis crew is progressing, and whether there are any other measures on the agenda that will lead to either this situation being pulled forward or on the other hand unwinding. And now I'm getting to the important thing that I wanted to say. I am a little lacking in the proposal that is here, also the optimistic light that we should send to society, it also means that if the number of people affected by this epidemic, whether from the point of view of the strategy of hospitalized or positively tested, or those who are suffering from this disease, but at some stage, that they do not need hospitalization, after all, even the indicator of death, then we will proceed to a wave of relaxation. And here I miss the government plan, when the government should say yes, we're ready for this, we're working on this, we haven't been able to work this thing out yet as a result of the rotation and the ministers, but next week or some time soon, we're going to introduce you to it, we're going to introduce it to society, because we consider it essential for the signal for our economy, for our schools, for our health professionals and for our education. Finally, of course, I would like to thank all those who are fighting this epidemic, whether they are health professionals or all volunteers, or other workers who have to enter their professions every day, because they have to bake bread, they must supply emergency infrastructure, and they must ensure that this company works really, at least within the limits of possibilities. And for the last time. There was a discussion here about whether to ban or not to ban Sunday sales. I know he's a little bit of a left-wing evergreen, and he argues how this issue is adjusted, the selling time in the surrounding countries next to the Czech Republic. In some, Sunday sales are forbidden, in some they are not. Now I think it has nothing to do with this merite politically, but it may also have something to do with the fact that even those sales girls are women, they should be protected in some way, they also care about their families, and from the point of view of the pandemic crisis of epidemiological danger, I think it's more than appropriate to say to themselves: even they have the right to at least one day a week to shut down large markets and large stores. Thank you for your attention and for the KSČM club I want to say that we will support the 30-day emergency situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u50	I thank Mr Stanislav Grospič. Now, Mrs Kateřina Valachová and Mr Jiří Bláha will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u51	Mr President, colleagues, fellow Members, honourable Government, I will briefly comment on the extension of the emergency situation. I will support the extension of the emergency situation, on the other hand I consider it important to directly comment on the right to education of children at the time of covid, on the situation of protection of family life and, of course, on the working and social conditions of teachers and teachers at this time. I would start with what some colleagues and colleagues have already described, and this is the situation in kindergartens. [[15.20 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we should pay more attention to kindergartens, and in this regard I take advantage of the opportunity to discuss the extension of the emergency situation, and I also address this call with a request to the Minister of Education and the Minister of Health. I have noted that they have both announced that they intend to devote themselves to a more detailed plan for how the individual levels of education will continue to be approached in the coming weeks. As far as kindergartens are concerned, I guess I'm not the only one who received some kind of warning from kindergarten teachers and teachers. Some colleagues have already pointed that out. I think it's important to poke out some of the things that kindergarten points out. First thing. The Ministry stopped registering the number of infected educators and children after school closure, as if the kindergartens did not fall under the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, or working conditions and the health of workers at the lowest level of education were simply not interested. Second point. In practice, it is very difficult or impossible to exclude a child from pre-school education who exhibits mild symptoms of non-temperature-free disease. We cannot well rely on the Public Health Act, because denial of parents of any child's health problems is no exception. In addition, pre-school children are only sent for collection in recent days in case of COVID-19 disease symptoms. Point three. Another key problem is the lack of professional staff, because a number of pedagogical and non-teaching employees are in incapacity for work, quarantine, or have school children who naturally benefit from the Czech Republic. Point four. The only compensatory aids given to kindergarten schools were respirators. These were not delivered directly to schools but to municipalities with extended scope. By e-mail from the school district, the school directors received information that they had to pick them up at the designated place the next day, otherwise they would be returned and the schools would not receive anything. Five. We receive general comments on specific questions from directors about specific situations, which are simply copied from the laws, not once did we hear that we would be dealing comprehensively with the government's situation of disease among children and pre-school workers. The only statements that appeal to us and are available are alibi expressions such as "the whole epidemic is not a matter of the Ministry of Education, it is the responsibility of other ministries and hygiene." So much for the letters I receive, and I know that in a similar way, kindergarten schools have turned to the Minister of Education. I appreciate that the Minister of Education thanked them for their work, but I considered it important to point out those points which, on the contrary, expect both ministries, both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health, to address. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] The second block I would like to address and draw attention to this in the context of the extension of the emergency situation is the situation within the first and second classes, the situation of ninth classes preparing for the entrance exams and then the situation of seniors or students in the training courses preparing for the final exams. These points, ladies and gentlemen, are crucial in education in terms of the future success of children, pupils and students, and I would very much like the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health not only to us, but above all to parents, teachers and students in the next few days to present a clear plan for how we will proceed in this school year. It is absolutely clear, ladies and gentlemen, that this school year will not be a normal school year, as someone has been plotting out of their balls in August--
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u52	Madam, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace. There's a lot of noise here, and since you no longer respect the man who's been given the floor, at least respect the hard work of our stenographers. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u53	As I have already said, it is absolutely clear that this school year will not be a normal school year, and therefore, in particular, in the direction of first, second classes, ninth classes and seniors, as well as future students who will strive in the schools for the final successful exams, we owe it to us to say how the preparation will take place this year. I draw attention to this because November, which you have ahead of you and which will therefore appear to be in an emergency state where the communication between everyone is difficult, is exactly the month that our school directors and school directors need as a key to the future, so that they know what the rules for the entrance exams or graduations or the adjustment of the school year are to prepare for what they are to ensure. For the last time, I would like to mention protective equipment. I am glad that after certain delays, teachers and teachers have been given protective equipment, but I would like to conclude this again by asking us not to pass out in the first supply and delivery, because schools are asking for this to be ensured continuously and systematically. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u54	Thank you, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. I'll ask my colleague Bláha to wait, Minister Robert Plaga came forward with priority rights, and then Radim Fiala. Mr. Colleague, please wait for Mr. Education Minister's priority right. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u55	Thank you. Quick reaction. Yes, I get letters from kindergarten. I'd like to say that closing the first stages is an unprecedented step. And I'm glad. And I understand that e-mails and letters show up again, that kindergarten schools are open. I thanked not only my kindergarten teachers repeatedly, but I also say that their work is not a front-line job, but it is right behind it if I have to use this popular first-line expression. Of course, thanks belong to them. The situation is tough, and I'm gonna say the thing is, I'd rather the first level has been opened. Of course I do, and I said it at the press conference that the situation in our country was so serious, the models showed such deterioration that I agreed - and I will not say that I did not agree, I agreed - with an unprecedented step, and that is the closure of the first stages of primary schools. But as far as the complaints and reservations that are being raised from kindergarten are concerned, I would like to respond to these few suggestions. As far as statistics and other things are concerned, it is not true. I requested numbers from the Ministry of Health to find out, and I argued in some discussions last week because that information from the Ministry of Health was that there were 38 clusters in kindergarten schools. Since we have over 5,000 kindergartens, this number is not incredibly remarkable, but I add, it is important to know that, of course, there are dizzy numbers of positively tested patients throughout the country at the moment, and this is obviously reflected in the quarantine and shutdown of the medical staff, not only medical personnel, but also, of course, in kindergarten. Professional staff, including teaching staff in those open schools, and kindergartens are open, so I am aware of that - and I said that they are part of the critical infrastructure, so today I will propose to the government that those designated schools, which I have talked about and which are 405 throughout the Republic, can also take care of the children of the pedagogical and non-teaching staff who are in those open schools. This means that when someone said that some teachers are at home with children in kindergartens, they can and will be able to, after the government approves this resolution, supplementing the resolution of crisis, children will be able to put in designated schools. As for the respirators, I repeat again and will repeat this indefinitely calmly, the equipment of schools, kindergartens, school facilities of respirators is the primary matter of their founders. From the budgetary determination of taxes 14.5 billion in 2019 goes to the municipal budget precisely because they have a school based on this criterion. This does not mean that the State cannot contribute, nor does it contribute. From the beginning, when we started dealing with respirators for Prague and then for the whole educational system, we counted on the Ministry of Education with all levels including kindergartens. Mother schools thus received, or were part of the supply of nearly 3 million respirators, which headed to our educational system beyond what they have - and often do so - to be founders. I know about many cities where the founders actually stocked the schools during or in response to the spring pandemic. It's great, but it's their duty. The obligation of the state is, of course, in those other areas. [[15.30 hours]] As far as kindergarten issues are concerned, it is a complete conclusion. The work is extremely difficult, the work is debilitating. And of course, at this point in time, it may seem unappreciated. It's not like that. When someone says it's just babysitting. You know for a long time, and it is also a debate in the House, which we have held, that one of those arguments, and it is based on foreign studies, is that children - from three to six years of age is the most fundamental age, and of course it continues at the first stage and throughout the education system. But it's a crucial part of the education system. I can assure everyone in kindergarten, even though I say, I'm sure it's hateful e-mails that we're aware of that, and we've been treating them like part of the education system all along. Again, if I could choose and go back in time and support, virtually. I'm going to go back to being - and I wish and respond to the other speakers who were here so that they could go back first. This means that the debate is not about to close nursery schools yet, and I firmly hope that the situation will improve so much and we will all contribute to this throughout the Czech Republic that there will be no need to take these next steps, on the contrary, that pupils of the first degree or at least the first, second classes will return as quickly as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u56	Thank you, Minister Robert Plag. I remind my colleague Valachová that factual remarks are not possible. So now, colleague Jiří Bláha, then Radim Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, if factual remarks were possible, you would not be able to see me here right now, because I prefer to speak in factual terms in response to the various information that has been made, and I have to respond. I have to respond mostly for one main reason that only when I signed up did you come up with about five, which I dare to even actually want to say something. It was mostly from those who spoke the longest. Why am I here? I am here to tell you that what we are reaping today is what we sowed in May and June, at a time when we, too, acted irresponsiblely when we Members, who did not wear drapes, did not follow anything at all, and we showed the whole nation that it was nothing, that nothing was going on and that we could all go on vacation in the summer, as far as possible to the sea and abroad, we all wanted that. Instead of leaving the kids at school after they were home for three months, instead of saying that the factories weren't going to give vacations, that they were finally going to start the economy to get a little bit of it here, so it happened that three months of the company didn't produce, in the summer they had to let people go on vacation, and because of that they didn't make it again, and of course because of the way we acted all summer, as we behaved in June, in May, so those people got the reason that nothing really mattered, that they didn't have to do anything, and so what we're reaping today is mainly because the whole two months that we've been talking about covide, and we want to do some restrictions, nobody follows anything. Today, here in the Chamber of Deputies, when I only came here, I saw a number of mistakes in securing personnel and among us. People just walk around with no masks, they talk to each other, and of course it's wrong. And so it is in public or among normal people because they don't believe in anything anymore. On the outside, we're all wearing our masks. Once we're in the background, we don't follow anything. We have fun without masks, we don't follow. And that's why we're where we are. You want some models, some charts? Until we all start following up on the fact that we don't meet without drapes to speak at a distance of two meters, maybe if we turned on the footage from the Chamber of Deputies, you'd see how many times you've met and there was no distance. But in that moment, the drape is useless. So these are things that are very important for us to realize, and especially for the public to realize, and all the people in our Czech Republic, that if we don't keep wearing masks, if we don't follow the distance, if we don't follow the fact that... I forgot the sentence, I'm sorry - we're not gonna get into the state that we're gonna solve something. And all the models you want to hear here, all the charts you want to see will be absolutely useless to you. So it's just that I'm not happy with how the various ministries dealt with the situation in the first wave, how we dealt with the aid to entrepreneurs, how long it all took and how grumpy it was, but on the other hand, when you think about it, we just haven't seen it to this day. We only have officials in office who unfortunately do not come into contact with normal people, with a normal situation, and so we had to go through it, and maybe we will move forward in the coming months, but we will not move forward if we deal with it all, such as pension reform or execution. At that point, we don't have a chance to move on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u58	I thank Mr Jiří Bláh. Now Mr Radim Fiala in the second speech, i.e. in the last speech. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to repeat the SPD motion that should be voted on today, and that is that the SPD wants to extend the emergency situation by only 10 days, which means by 10. 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u60	Thank you. Mr Miroslav Kalousek has now joined the debate. Before I give him my word, I will ask the House for peace, because once again the discussion within the hall does not allow any performances that those who are interested in it to listen to. Just a moment, Mr. Ambassador. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with a rhetorical question, I will address colleagues who have been here as I have spent several times in the parliamentary term to ask whether you remember that the petitioner submitted something to the draft and less important than the government's request for an extension of the emergency situation, and he left so that he would not return; that the petitioner was not present throughout the debate to answer the questions asked by the Members, if any. to refute the objections raised by Members in the debate. I don't remember. How is it that, at a point as important as extending the emergency situation, in a situation as crucial as the coronavirus crisis, the Prime Minister will allow this? Where is he? Where's the Minister of Health? I have heard that they are both excused for work reasons, and once again I dare ask myself a rhetorical question as to what may be more important working reasons at the moment than to convince the Chamber of Deputies of their requests to prolong the emergency situation for the government. Has war been declared? I can't imagine any more reason. I'm turning to you, colleagues, in government benches. Nor do you mind how seriously the Prime Minister takes this request and this discussion? How serious is the Minister of Health taking her? As a pure necessary formality, they'll just read something here, plus a whole series of inaccuracies. We found out the Health Minister doesn't know what a reproductive number is, but okay, maybe he'll learn. But they're just gonna leave! At the end of this discussion, I expected an authorized member of the government to come forward and answer the questions that had fallen here and to refute the objections raised. Anyway, why would we do that? That's a formality. You vote for us to extend the emergency, and in the meantime, something, anything, I don't know what they're calling work reasons right now. [[15.40 hours]] When, Mr. absent Prime Minister - please let your co-workers who can hear me - when, Mr. absent Prime Minister, you'll be whining again that we're all in the same boat and that we're supposed to be pulling together, please make sure that one ship was here today! And here's where we were supposed to set up how we're going to sail it. You read something and left arrogantly and arrogantly. So next time, please don't whine!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u62	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. The rapporteur has now entered into a debate. Mrs Richterová, you have the floor, Mrs Richter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u63	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to conclude, because it's kind of like this here, I'd say stormy ornery. And that's because those who were to come didn't come. [[Compliments of the Pirates.]] In response to this failure, I would propose two very brief resolutions. The first one would be that "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Czech Government to implement the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies number 1162 of 4 June 2020." It's as simple as that. It was a complex simple resolution on the general evaluation of the first wave, preventing the spread in the second wave. So that is the motion for a first resolution to implement resolution 1162. And the second proposal, I think, is also very, very understandable. So I will just say it this way: "The Chamber of Deputies requires the Czech Government to present a report on the proposed follow-up and evaluation of existing measures at least one day before the end of the emergency situation." So simply - the report on the proposed follow-up and evaluation of the existing measures; so that we can get clear words in writing in time before any further negotiations. So this would be two proposals for me, which I wanted to make in this general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u64	Thank you. Madam President, there is only one debate. Minister Robert Plaga has yet to sign up for the government of the Czech Republic. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u65	Thank you for the floor. I have carefully taken notes here during the course of the school work, and I consider it necessary and, above all, appropriate for the questions that have been raised here to answer them. This means, in her contribution, Mrs Černochová, in her word, has pointed out that it is critical for them to come back first and second grade and ninth grade. I couldn't agree more. And it's not because my younger daughter is in second grade. That means, she didn't, or she had her second half of the first year disturbed, and now it's successfully continuing in the second year. But really, with these little distance lessons, it doesn't work the way it should. Respectfully, those first-timers had a month to get to know the school environment and get to know their habits, and that's not much, and I'm diplomatic. So I totally agree. I am also aware, and my colleagues at the Ministry of Education, that we have the ninth year of high school entrance exams in front of us. And again, they're the ones who, they're eighth graders last year, and that's where the problem is the same. At the same time, the final years of secondary schools must have exactly the same priority. It is important to note that not only seniors but also those who have final exams face the same problem, except at a different level of education. I add that practical teaching in secondary schools must be almost the same priority, because, of course, if you have a two-year blackout, you should expect some expertise and some practice from these students may be presumptuous and we must try to get the opportunity back to the fullest possible extent so that they can actually do the practice. For universities, which I would not like to forget, there are certainly priorities to bring back practical and laboratory exercises so that they can get to these things at the school at all. So this prioritization is clear, I agree with it, and it was mentioned in about the next five contributions that were here, whether they were about the first stages or only about the first and second classes. That means, let's all do everything we can to get those numbers under control as quickly as possible and actually return at least part of the first grade, if not all to school, to the presentation class. At the same time, I am glad that it has been said here from basically all member clubs that it is necessary to lay down criteria for the opening of schools. I say that I, as the Minister of Education, can give a scenario of those priorities, which I have just said. These specific values are to be given by epidemiologists, health care professionals and the Ministry of Health. When I listened to the new Minister of Health, he had the same plan. This means clear, predictable indicators, criteria by which the relaxing scenario and the return to schools should run. Of course, I assume that there will be some measures, not only three Rs, that means separations, drapes, but at the same time it may be necessary to set them up, but we will talk about these regimes, and that is what you called me here to do, which means that there are clear rules and that schools have enough time to prepare for them. For the Ministry of Education, I can say that we have already prepared a manual in the summer, where, of course, the situation then developed as far as traffic lights are concerned, but the basic principles, basic recommendations and hygiene are still valid. And the recommendations for distance learning are still valid, too. Of course distance teaching in schools is better than in spring, but that doesn't mean it would be great, wonderful and great everywhere. And it should be said that this is being done now, or there has been an inquiry into the Czech School Inspection and we will, of course, respond to the results of this inquiry as the Ministry of Education again with another set of recommendations or another appeal to schools. But if there are things that are incorporated into these resolutions, then I would say that on the communication side and on the information side to schools, we are communicating directly with data boxes, and every change in the resolution that has had an impact on education has been communicated quite clearly to school heads. Of course, if it was a government measure that had rapid efficiency, the information came at a time when, for example, the schools or, respectively, the measures were announced at a press conference or subsequently they were already in practice. But that's not a comm error. And I'll be glad if the script is known so long in advance that we at the Ministry of Education have the opportunity to communicate with school directors as well as in the summer in advance. If I were to comment on the things he is proposing here, President Bartoš suggested. I can agree with the criteria for renewing the operation of schools as well as the communication in advance. As regards the supply of protective equipment, I again note that cooperation between the founders and the state is important in the overall system. The additional intervention we put there as a state, that is, three million respirators in our schools, was just a contribution to what the founders already provided. As far as the care of children of pedagogical and non-teaching staff is concerned, I repeat that, as far as open schools are concerned, those designated schools, which are 405 at this time, I will propose that a circle of those persons who can place their children there, as well as the employees of kindergarten schools, should be extended. The challenge that aims to strengthen cooperation and coordination of activities with the Czech Republic. Digital, let me just say one thing. The Digital has been cooperating with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports since the beginning of the spring wave epidemic. Among other things, we work with them on the web Edu.cz. And already in the first wave, based on data from the Czech School Inspectorate, we have selected thousands of schools to which we have offered focused support with the participation of the Czech Republic. Digital, but also through our national teaching institute. If you are talking about promoting online education, the National Educational Institute webinars as well as Teaching online have already recorded a huge interest from teachers in the spring and participation in these webinars has been quite high. We will continue to do so, I can assure you of that. [[15.50 hours]] At the same time as regards the connectivity of the pupils at home, so that step one that we did as a state - and again I say that the equipment of the schools should be the primary responsibility of the founders, but given the situation, the state intervened in primary schools and provided an extraordinary injection of CZK 1.3 billion to buy computer equipment for teachers. The calculation technique was also accompanied by the fact that it could have been used for software and teaching programs, with a portion of the funds having and also being directed to the student lending fund. Along with initiatives where some operators or other firms make computer technology available, it is a welcome intervention and welcome encouragement and support to those pupils who come from socially disadvantaged environments or even those who may not have a computer, because both parents are at home office. So here we meet again, and what this resolution actually calls for by the government, we have long been dealing with, and I think very successfully. I note that CZK 1.3 billion at the average cost of the computer CZK 13,000 is quite a lot of computers and, on the contrary, companies have difficulty supplying the computers to schools. Sometimes it appeared that these funds were distributed to schools late. It's not like that. The law enabled us to make the funds through what you approved here - and thank you once again for changing the school law, thanks to ad hoc standardization, we were able to distribute the funds 1. 10. We've broken them down 1. 10:05 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. 10. have been written off to the counties. Some regions already 8. 10. they credited the funds to these schools, with schools having information, binding information from us that they could buy, or they could also apply purchases from spring and summer, basically from all of 2020, in their data boxes. So there's no delay here, and thank God for this operational tool, because if we're showing INDOS to schools here, three years from now, we're going to talk about the fact that there's a 14th cancellation of the tender at central level. Other things that have been said here - the crisis team in the field of education. I can say that the communication between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports will take place and that as the Ministry we are intensively communicating with representatives of all levels of the school system. After all, in some support materials we really relied on teachers and, for example, in those leaflets a week ago that went to schools to teach children, we actually used it to be written in the language of the tribe of teachers, respectively. the children, and make it understandable for the children. That means we're working with not only the principals, we're working with teachers. If I may, and I am not a lawyer, but some colleagues do, I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that the resolution you basically addressed to us in the field of education has three parts. The first part is about the request, the second part is about saving. Before you vote on these resolutions, I will allow myself to quote that was sent to me by a fellow lawyer: During the term of office of the Government, the Chamber of Deputies may also impose general tasks on the Government by its resolutions. If the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies ties the government to a specific matter, e.g. in order to present a bill of content or to address specific persons of ministers, it is a violation of the division of state power and the government is not bound by such a resolution. Pavlíček and the collective, Constitutional Law and State Science, page 913. Please, let us - I do not have a problem with resolutions that go towards education in the general sense, but it has also become such a failure of the school committee that there are things that impose on the Minister of Education or another minister what he or she can and cannot do. I beg you, even in your motions for resolutions, if not in today's and in the future, to respect these general principles of division of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u66	Thank you, Minister Plag. Mr. Vice-President of the KSČM Club Leo Luzar. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u67	Thank you for the floor. I think we all appreciate the Minister's eloquence. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister isn't here. I think we're all sorry. Nevertheless, we have a responsibility to citizens, and we all respect the emergency situation. That is why I would like to request a ten-minute recess so that we can prepare for the vote before us. I'm sure it won't be easy, and I hope you understand. So I'm asking for a ten-minute break on behalf of the KSČM Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u68	Thank you. In that case, I'll meet you at 16.05. I will now announce a break for the meeting of the KSČM club, and if the rapporteur can deal with the proposals, all the clubs will have them at their disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u69	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, one moment more... [[He's receiving a call on his cell phone.]] I have now just confirmed that the debate has not yet been closed. So I will look around the O.R. for the last time and ask if there is an interest in speaking in the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in final words. Minister of Education for the Government final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u70	For the government, I would like to thank you all for supporting the extension of the emergency situation. I want to wish us all a happy time to deal with pandemics as quickly as possible. I have a professional interest in this as Minister of Education, because the sooner we can tame the numbers, the sooner our children can return to school, among other things. So thanks to all of you. As far as accompanying resolutions are concerned, for the field of education, I will only allow myself to comment on the third part. If there are some things that won't be voted out, it doesn't mean we don't do them. Now I know at least two out of my mind, it is necessary to strengthen cooperation with the non-profit sector, whether mentioned by the Czech Republic.Digital or People in Need, who are trying to deal with these things directly in the field. So here I am saying, we've been doing this since spring, and we're going to continue this regardless of whether the resolution is approved or not approved, or whether it's discovering America and telling us to strengthen the cooperation we've been doing since March. I can also assure you that we are already communicating, or that there is a communication between the Deputy Minister for Higher Education, Science and Research directly with the deans of teaching faculties, and that they continue to practice and target them to those designated schools that form the backbone of health care and other critical infrastructure, so that this part of the resolution is redundant, because we are doing so. I could go on like this. So the final sentence is: Although something of your accompanying resolutions is not being voted out in the field of education, I would hate for you to interpret it as an unwillingness of the Ministry of Education, because I say again, and I am ready to talk about it, or even prove it to you, we do these things. Of course, I do not resist other suggestions and ideas that will not only come in the coming days and weeks, but we need them. And I promise we'll deal with them at the Ministry of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u71	Thank you. The rapporteur? Is he interested in the final word?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u72	I would like to thank the Minister once again for defending almost the entire government - yes, he received reinforcements at the last moment - and at the same time regretted that neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Health has actually arrived. [[Minister Zaoralek]] As far as the closing argument is concerned, it's very brief. There has been some consensus about what blocks to vote in afterwards. Then I'll introduce you to the procedure design. At the same time, I am calling once again, if anyone else has any comments, then it is really about the fact that we would like to vote in blocks for parts of these resolutions. So much very briefly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u73	Thank you. I'm just going to recapitulate because a few executives switched during the discussion. First of all, I marked this, here was the amendment from SPD representatives to 10 days, to 10 days extension, followed by a proposal from the Pirate Party representative for 14 days. The same proposal has KSČM or ODS. Then followed by a new proposal from the Pirate Party for 20 days. I just have a comment here, somebody suggested by November 20th. I will ask the rapporteur, I think it is for everyone's benefit if we recapitulate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u74	There was some clarification going on here, and it is so that it would probably be voted in agreement gradually from the smallest date 10. 11. as suggested by the SPD, over 13. 11. which was suggested by the ODS up to 20. 11. which is a joint proposal of the Pirates, KDU-ČSL and ODS. And then YES suggested, as far as I know, to 3. 12. 2020. So that's how ascending the vote would be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u75	Thank you. This would be a so-called indicative vote, where we will only vote 'who is in favour' under Paragraph 72 (2) of the Treaty. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). And the proposal that gets the biggest support in the so-called indicative vote, we would then vote first in the procedure. I'll call all my colleagues from the lobby. For those who have arrived in the hall, at this point I will repeat, we will vote in an orientation on four different proposals. The vote shall be in favour only. We are the first to vote on the proposal that fell from the SPD to extend the emergency situation to 10. 11. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Voting number 207, 99 Members signed in, for 11. We would now vote on a proposal to extend the emergency situation to 13. 11. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Voting number 208, registered 99 for 32. Now there's a proposal to extend the emergency situation to 20. 11. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Voting number 209, registered is 99, for 39. Finally, the proposal in accordance with the Government's request to extend the emergency situation to 3. 12. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Voting number 210, registered is 99, for 47, versus 1. Well, it doesn't have to be against it. Just for 47. So now we are going to vote essentially in the opposite order than we have voted until now. There's a checkout request. Please log in with your ID cards again. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period until 3 December 2020.' This is, therefore, the first proposal that we are voting on. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 211, registered is 97, for 46, versus 16. This proposal has not been adopted. Secondly, we will vote on the proposal - I will make the whole text of the resolution for sure: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period until 20 November 2020.' Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 212, registered is 97, for 86, against 11. This proposal was adopted. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. I would ask the rapporteur to guide us through accompanying resolutions, as she has announced, in blocks. I'm asking everyone to be careful to know what they're going to vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u76	Thank you. First of all, I'd zoom in on the draft procedure so that there's a clear picture. I would therefore like us to vote first on the brief two resolutions tabled by me first, and then follow the resolutions of the pirate club marked in blocks as A measures in health care, where we would vote separately part one-two in one block, in one block 1, then block 2 I and then 2.II to 2.V. Next, it would be block three, and that would be the end of area A. B would also be a block. C's also a block. And D divided again into one, two. There would be a separate vote. And then a threesome in the block. We would therefore have a proposal to the resolutions proposed by the ODS, and there we would vote on individual points, that will be another six resolutions. So that's the procedure proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u77	Thank you. I ask if anyone else has a proposal as to how we would proceed with the vote on accompanying resolutions. I don't see anyone. We voted for the main emergency. After all, I would have let this procedure be put to the vote so that we can build it for sure. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposed voting method. Who's against it? Voting number 213, registered 96, for 94, against no one. We approved the procedure. I, Madam rapporteur, will just ask you always to state, in one sentence, what this particular resolution relates to. Please take us through the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u78	The first vote is on this resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to implement the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies No. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). 6. 2020."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u79	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 214, registered 96, for 51, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u80	Thank you. I think the next resolution is very clear: "The Chamber of Deputies requires the Government of the Czech Republic to present a report on the proposed follow-up and evaluation of the existing measures at least one day before the end of the emergency situation."
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u81	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting 215, 96 Members signed in, for 49. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u82	Thank you. Then we are in the resolution designated area A. Health measures. First of all, we will vote on point 1: 'The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Government engage in the maximum number of healthcare experts for effective management of the pandemic'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u83	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 216, registered 96, for 86, against no one. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u84	Thank you. Now the second will be separated by the first point and then it will be blocked. So the first point: "2. Recommends the government to take the following measures, namely to provide a one-off fee of CZK 15 to 20,000 to finance child care for parents under the age of 4 who will return to health in the short term, if they are involved for at least three-quarters of a period of at least one month, at a lower rate of reduction. "
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u85	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting 217, registered 96, for 28, versus 1. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u86	It will now be a block from II to V. Just very briefly, it is to enable the systematic involvement of experts in volunteering, a single volunteer registration portal, to examine the possibility of preparing it, involving students in science and biomedical fields, and to consider supporting the acquisition of oxygen concentrates and medical drains e.g. To senior homes. We would now vote on this block.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u87	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 218, registered 96, for 91, against no one. Motion accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u88	Now A.3., this is actually a data block, we're going to vote in whole. It is a request to the Government to ensure, at least on a weekly basis, the collection of statistical information from sanitary stations, for example, the time between the determination of the reasons for the quarantine regulation and the date on which the person in quarantine was contacted or the time between the evident information of the person to be ordered and the conduct of the test. It's a block that contains I to IV. So I to IV. we will now vote on the block.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u89	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 219, registered 96, for 32, against no one. This proposal was not adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u90	And now it's going to be area B, the electronization and the operation of the state, where it's going to be the joint vote of those possibilities 1 through 6. It is about providing data messages in data boxes free of charge also for private communication via telephone and e-mail contact with authorities up to support home office, work from home. So area B, 1 to 6, electronization and state operation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u91	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 220, 96 Members registered, for 77, versus 4. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u92	Thank you. Now area C - smart measures for living with the covid after mastering the greatest strain. Here again there will be a block vote, where I would just mention very briefly, it is the establishment of a pandemic traffic light, a statement concerning the closure of shoe stores, paper shops, electrical, clothing and other retail shops, where, while leaving large hypermarkets, there is an unjustified disproportion in the market environment. It is also about smart measures for the government to introduce testing of all employees of social facilities or to simplify and streamline central public procurement by, for example, speeding up the negotiation of the amendment to the Public Procurement Act, printing 951. So these are areas 1 to 6 and the sixth point is divided into I to IV. All of this will be voted on the block.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u93	I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 221, 96 Members present, for 37, against 1. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u94	Now area D - education. There we will vote first on the first part, when the Chamber of Deputies recommends that criteria be laid down and published in relation to the evolution of the epidemiological situation, on the basis of which the operation of schools and school facilities will be renewed or restricted, and secondly on the basis of a consistent and comprehensible communication between the Government's actions on the provision of teaching, the operation of schools and school facilities, in sufficient advance to enable schools, school facilities and the public to respond adequately to the measures taken.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u95	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 222, registered 96, for 89, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u96	Thank you. And now there is another area of education where once again it will be that the Chamber of Deputies recommends to the Government of the Czech Republic, and I will read only individual points: I. continue to supply protective equipment and masks to schools and school facilities where traffic is not restricted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u97	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 223, registered 96, for 83, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u98	Thank you. II. provide care for children by pedagogical and non-teaching staff involved in the provision of teaching and operation of schools and educational facilities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u99	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 224, registered 96, for 86, against no one. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u100	III. ensure effective and free transfer of disabled ICT technology from offices and public institutions to primary and secondary schools in order to ensure distance learning, including for pupils who do not have access to online teaching due to lack of technical background.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u101	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 225, registered 96, for 31, versus 8. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u102	IV. prepare and publish a long-term mission plan on providing methodological support to ensure distance learning, continuously monitor and provide information on their implementation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u103	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 226, registered 96, for 38, versus 2. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u104	V. prepare and publish scenarios and proposals for variant solutions for the gradual return of pupils to schools in connection with the development of epidemiological situations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u105	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 227, registered 96, for 82, versus 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u106	And the last of this block: VI. ensure compensation to higher education institutions in connection with the restriction of student residence on university colleges.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u107	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 228, registered 96, for 75, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u108	Thank you. And we got to the third block in the field of education, where it is only the final recommendation to the government of the Czech Republic to take the following measures: to allow voluntary distance teaching especially to pupils who have a member of a family belonging to a risk group in their household or, if they belong to that group, to further strengthen and coordinate activities with existing initiatives or with those schools and classes established under Section 16 to limit operation at their request. - That's a block we're going to vote after the Roman IV at the same time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u109	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 229, registered 96, for 25, against 1. This proposal has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u110	And now we've actually made it to the last block, these are the proposals made by the ODS. And we will begin with the first: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic requires the Czech Government to discuss all the new measures planned before their announcement, duly and intelligibly explaining them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u111	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 230, registered 96, for 44, versus 6. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u112	Come in. The Chamber of Deputies requires the Government to prepare an evaluation of the measures implemented, a forecast of further developments and realistic epidemiological models for possible further negotiations on the prolongation of the emergency situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u113	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 231, registered 96, for 43, versus 1. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u114	Next. The Chamber of Deputies requires the government to prepare and present to the public a plan to release measures for various scenarios of the evolution of the epidemiological situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u115	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 232, registered 95, for 42, versus 1. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u116	Then: The Chamber of Deputies requires the government to activate the personnel and bed capacity of the spa, which are suitable for placing patients with COVID-19 who do not require acute hospitalization, but medical facilities cannot release them for home treatment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u117	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 233, registered 96, for 43, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u118	And for the penultimate: The Chamber of Deputies is ordering the government to extend the range of compensation also for entrepreneurs and businesses indirectly affected by government measures in connection with SARS-CoV-2 infection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u119	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 234, registered 95, for 45, against no one. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u120	And now the last point concerning the area of education: The Chamber of Deputies is ordering the Czech Government to take the following steps in the field of education, namely to specifically: 1. set up a training crisis team to discuss proposals for measures in the field of education, consisting of representatives of the ministries of health and education, epidemiologists and representatives of all kinds of schools and educational establishments, 2. to present the criteria for opening schools and educational establishments, 3. to ensure the conditions for opening first and second grades of primary school, 4. to ensure the conditions for allowing consultation for pupils preparing for the single entrance exam, final examination and graduation exam, 5. to ensure the purchase of computers for secondary schools as implemented for primary schools, and 6. to provide support for distance learning for pupils and families in the form of data connection strengthening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u121	Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of this motion for a resolution. Who's against it? Voting number 235, 96 Members registered, for 41, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Well, rapporteur, thank you for your excellent cooperation. President Kalousek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u122	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? Samsung's phone has been on the legislative table for a long time. Please reach into your pockets or your purses so you don't find out when you're home that you're off your cell phone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-30-ps2017-062-06-002-509.u123	Well, thank you for the heads-up. Ladies and gentlemen, I am interrupting the 62nd session of the Chamber of Deputies until the variable week by 10 November when we will meet at 14.00. However, I remind you that we will see each other even sooner, on Thursday, November 5, at 9. 00, it'll be the 64th meeting. Have a nice weekend, everyone. Goodbye.
