ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-008-012.u1	12. Government bill amending Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules and on the amendment of certain related laws (budgetary rules), as amended, and other related laws /house printing 567/ - second reading We interrupted the debate on this point on Tuesday, 2 June in the general debate. I would remind you that, at first reading, we ordered this press to discuss the budget committee as a guarantee committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 567/1 and 2. I ask that the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová take up the seats at the rapporteur's table, and the rapporteur of the budget committee, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá. So now we will continue the interrupted general debate and before the item was interrupted on 2 June, I have here in the note, entered into the general debate by Mr Vojtěch Munzar. And if I'm looking right, there's no one else in the general debate. So, Mr. Ambassador, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-008-012.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. Once again, perhaps for the last time today, colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary. Although the amendment on budgetary rules is a very technical matter, some things may have a significant impact on the state's economy, and I would like to ask the Minister some questions whether she would shed some light on some of the issues or not respond to the comments that I will have to make here, because some things really interest me. I'll keep one of the juicy ones until the end of my performance, but for example, I'm interested in booking state budget funds. Today, there must be reserved funds in the Treasury before it is done by a ministry, a central government authority, an order or a contract action. The Ministry of Finance and the Minister suggests that the organisational component of the state must book through the state budget only before it is issued, not before a legal commitment is made. The explanatory memorandum states that the purpose of the reservation is to make the funds available when it is necessary to issue them. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I understand the motivation, the Minister may correct me, but I understand the motivation that it is to make them more flexible in the management of state resources, but there is a risk, in my opinion, not insignificant, and that is the risk of overbinding, which ultimately...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-008-012.u3	I will ask the House once again for peace in the left part of the spectrum, because I have really stopped hearing what Mr Munzar is saying. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-008-012.u4	Thank you. I understand that this is a really technical issue that not everyone must be interested in, but I see the risk of over-engagement in this change, and this risk of over-engagement can ultimately lead to an increase in government debt. So I want to ask the Minister how this will actually be handled within the Treasury when, in fact, today, central government authorities must first have the funds earmarked in the Treasury so that they can make any commitment, and you propose that they have the funds booked before their delivery. How will it be ensured that they do not really have too many orders, too many business commitments, and overdraft the earmarked funds? I'm really interested in this thing. It really can have a major impact, if necessary, on the increase in state debt. [[18.40 hours]] Another thing that interests me, Madam Secretary, and I would like you to comment on this is a certain exception, which I find racy, because on the previous point, we were talking about the possibility that tax exemptions should be abolished, and here you are proposing an exemption from the use of accounts. Because today all central government bodies must have accounts with the Czech National Bank. In changing the budgetary rules, you propose that, for some reason, when the Ministry of Finance gives its consent, it is possible to set up an account with banks or other payment service providers for the organisational branches of the State. And I wonder what is your assumption of the amount of funds that will be transferred from the Czech National Bank, Madam Secretary, to those other accounts. I am afraid that this exception will not become a rule, as we can mostly see with some things, in order to actually maintain control of what the real state of state finances is. This was a motivation once that it was transferred to the Czech National Bank. Madam Secretary, I beg you, this is the second thing if you would enlighten me before the debate. The third issue that I am interested in is the adjustment of the accounts under point (k) of the adjustment of the accounts of subordinate state treasury, state debt, state financial assets and liabilities. And there I, colleagues, will read to you exactly what is proposed. It is proposed - to withdraw the need for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies with the use of funds generated in the past from the results of budgetary management and concentrated on a special account of state financial assets. - It is, from my point of view, a certain acquisition of the powers of the Chamber of Deputies and a transfer to the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the decision-making capacity of the Chamber of Deputies to decide on the use of these funds will be reduced and left to the Ministry of Finance alone. I would like to know, Madam Secretary, the reason for this proposal, because it seems to me that the practice which today is that the Chamber of Deputies decided on this is not bad, it is also a form of public control. And as I promised to keep the spice at the end of my performance, it is a matter with which I agree, Madam Secretary, in the budgetary rules - and here you will find the balance of the state budget under (i). I'll read it to you. It is proposed to provide that any surplus of the State budget will always be used to reduce the State debt. Government debt growth could endanger the budgetary management of the Czech Republic in the future, and therefore every opportunity to reduce it should be taken advantage of. Since we are likely to have an extraordinary meeting, when we are going to discuss the absolutely highest state budget deficit in the history of the Czech Republic, this wording from the Ministry of Finance pen is very spicy for me. As a matter of principle, what you're proposing is correct, but from my point of view, it's virtual reality today, because I don't suppose there's ever any surplus of state finance with this government. I mean, take it that you've given us deficit budgets even at a time when there was economic growth. Just read, Madam Secretary, the Annual Report of the Supreme Audit Office on the State Final Account for 2019. It is directly stated that the total expenditure of the state budget grew faster than the revenue of the state budget, while current operating expenditure from the state budget increased more than normal tax revenues. This, of course, does not lead to any certainty - today we are after the economic crisis, but even if the economic crisis were not - that the government would lead our country, our state finances to some stability, some kind of, say, economical use of funds. And I'm sorry that there's one thing covering up in the presentation of historically highest deficit budgets. Yes, we are after the coronavirus crisis, yes, there are high impacts of this crisis on the economy, but at the same time, from my point of view, the government is trying to cover up this deficit that it did not manage last year, economically, with the taxpayers' funds entrusted. This is what the Annual Report of the Supreme Audit Office states. However, in principle, the point (i) is correct. So, Madam Secretary, I'm going to ask you if you'd like to comment on the three of my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-008-012.u5	So now Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal will speak with priority rights, so far the last application to the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-008-012.u6	Thank you for the floor in the debate. I've already made my point the last time, but Mr Votava wasn't here at the time, and now I've discussed it with him. The point is that last time I presented my minor amendment here, when it is actually a one-paragraphs change, adding a sentence to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I am entirely based on the 703 House press, when I am proposing an amendment to this House press 567, which also concerns budgetary rules and a lot of other regulations that are being opened, so on that occasion, I think there is nothing against it when we open another regulation. I propose that it be the duty of the Chamber of Deputies to discuss the state final account of the year before we start discussing the budget of the following year at the third reading. Well, that's a short story. I think this is a very useful proposal tabled by Members of the Committee on Budgets across several parliamentary clubs and across the political spectrum. [[Supported?]] I will then read it even further in the detailed debate. So much for me so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-008-012.u7	So I will now look around to see if anyone else has any interest in speaking in the general debate. I don't see anyone here, so I'm ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Madam Secretary? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-008-012.u8	I would only respond briefly to Mr Munzar's comments or questions. Yes, there's some sort of release, I admit it, I don't deny it at all. Because today it is built that no one can make commitments unless they have backup funds in the budget. But he kind of showed it like Antivirus, just when he doesn't have the money, he couldn't be paid for, like, the Antivirus program. But the situation has shown that it is very binding because you have an EU allocation and you need the money. So we're kind of loosening it up, like a government resolution or an EU allocation. It's just a suspension. That's all we're looking at. But, of course, I'd like to remind you, she's been having quite a technical debate here, and it may not have all been interested in it, but for me, the most elegant point of this novel is that we're introducing some rules to those vacant places, to so-called dead souls, which means that there's some kind of binding of funds, which is actually a savings effect for the future. So I don't have to - or whoever comes after me so the finance minister doesn't always have to deal with it on the budget and listen to that maybe it's not quite okay, so let it be in the budget rules once and for all. Maybe that's the easiest point in the novel for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-008-012.u9	So now I ask whether the rapporteur is interested in the final word. He doesn't. So I am opening up a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must be justified. Mr. Milan Feranec is the first to speak. Excuse me, so with priority rights, please, Chairman of the Pirate Club Jakub Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-008-012.u10	Thank you for the floor. I am applying to the amendments that are in the system under 5514 and 5512. These are proposals for opening the CEDR database and entering real owners into the register for recipients of subsidies. These proposals are justified directly in the text of the House document.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-008-012.u11	Next, Mr Milan Feranec will appear and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-008-012.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby declare the amendment to the House document 5018. The amendment concerns a shift in efficiency and further seeks to avoid duplication of publication of projects from the EU budget. [[unintelligible]] I refer specifically to what I said in the general debate and to the written justification of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-008-012.u13	Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal is now claiming priority rights. In the meantime, I'll read one apology. From 18.45 until the end of the sitting day, Ms Jana Levová apologises for reasons of work. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-008-012.u14	Well, thank you for your word. I'm here again. I am here to present and justify my amendment to this press, which is under House document 5742. I have already justified it in some way to the base in the general debate, but I would still like to mention some things. It is therefore a change that is intended to bring the House to know the state's final account, to approve it before it starts to discuss the budget for the following year, so that we are sufficiently informed and that we are sufficiently aware of what is going on. A more detailed explanation is, if necessary, in this House of Press 703. Like I said, I'm not the original author. By original authors, respectively. The appellants are Mr Votava, Mr Onderka, Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Skopeček, Mr Stanjura, Mr Dolejš, Mr Kalousek and others, as you can see, is a proposal across the political spectrum and across political clubs. On that original proposal, there were several criticisms from the government. One of them was so formalistic that when it comes to the proposal that the state final account for the previous year should be approved, that it is not clear which year is the previous one, so we were looking for some formulation that will be sufficiently clear and accurate. So I would like to offer a wording here that the third reading of the draft State Budget Act can be started at the earliest 48 hours after the end of the second reading, only on condition that the House has completed its discussion of the State Final Account for the financial year preceding the year for which the budget is approved. I don't know if the wording is any clearer, but it's definitely more formal, so I'm gonna have to offer it like this. Thank you for your attention. So much for my justification.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-008-012.u15	So I will now ask for Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík's speech and Mr Pustějovskýějovský will prepare himself. Yes? jojo, so, Mr. Mr. Pustějovskýìjovsky. Please, you have the floor. And, Mr. Ambassador, are you applying, too? Yeah. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-008-012.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up to my amendment, which is being held as a House document under number 5373. In practice, in granting subsidies under budgetary rules, there are cases where the applicant has submitted an application which is not in line with the substantive focus of the call and therefore the applicant clearly requests a subsidy for something that the provider does not provide. It is then appropriate to allow the procedure to be terminated by the resolution in order to conflict with the substantive focus of the call. In the details of the justification, I refer to the written form of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-008-012.u17	So, as the last one, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will speak in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-008-012.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have a number of amendments that I have already presented in the general debate. I also discussed this at first reading, some of the problems that we think this press has. So I'm going to load them now. I will also refer to the justifications they have for the House press. So it's the House press under number 5739. It is a draft accompanying resolution dealing with the issue of overdebted municipalities. This basic text is simple: The Chamber of Deputies warns the government that there is still no general legal solution to establish recovery procedures for extremely indebted municipalities, and calls on the Government to prepare and submit a proposal for a viable solution for overdebted municipalities by the end of 2020. I really think that's an important thing. And it is very important now in a situation where, through the crisis, there is a risk that the overdebted communities will increase. I originally proposed an amendment, after a very negative one, but correct - as we have already clarified with the Minister here - I did not finally submit the proposal to the Ministry of Finance, I only submit an accompanying resolution to draw attention to the two relevant ministries that this issue needs to be addressed and agreed on a solution. The Treasury has some idea of it, but the Justice Department has another one, so we need to find a match. I also apply to the amendment under number 5488. This is a proposal concerning the abolition of the DotInfo information system. We don't think it's appropriate to cancel the information system without a replacement. According to us, first we need to upgrade to a better system, prove that the newer and better system actually contains all the parts that it has, that there is no loss and limitation of transparency, and then cancel DotInfo. For this reason, we propose to preserve DotInfo for the time being. We don't think it's entirely happy just to cancel it without replacing it with some vague promise that it'll make it right. I also apply to the amendment under number 5489. This is a proposal dealing with the issue of vacancy or the solution of vacancy in ministries. We are not convinced that the path chosen by the Ministry of Finance, although we respect that the problem is relevant, so we think that their path is not appropriate. This is justified in detail in the amendment. I suggest we release that part of this novel. I also apply to the amendment under number 5490. This is a proposal that deals with the civil service. This means that we propose to remove from this proposal a change in the field of public service. We do not really think it is appropriate to intervene in the service law. Again, this reduces government control in the area of the systematicisation of places. That is why I am giving this amendment number 5490. I also apply to the amendment under number 5491. This is a proposal that deals in more detail with the issue of transparency in the budgetary procedure. I think it's a very important thing, and we think it's time to work on it. So we're trying to improve the predictability of the state budget and the robustness of the budget system. And the last amendment, under number 5492, which I believe is now very topical. It addresses the question that today budget measures are actually made up to 10%, but there is no upper limit. So then, for example, an item of a kind of government debt is used for... government debt service using it for large budgetary measures. We're suggesting he's like that... Keep the limit 10%, of course, but at the same time limit a billion so that the budgetary committee discusses budgetary measures that go beyond a billion. Thank you for your attention. I've still made it so we can discuss it tonight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-06-16-ps2017-049-08-008-012.u19	There. I, therefore, conclude a detailed debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Madam Secretary, rapporteur? There's no interest, so I'm ending the second reading of this proposal. And we have 18.59, so I hope that no one will protest if I break the agenda for today's meeting and see you tomorrow at 9:00 in the morning. Have a good evening.
