ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u1	118. Government bill amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 1091/ - first reading I will ask the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, to present this press, but only after the House has calmed down. At the same time, I ask that someone from the management of the club KSČM ensure the presence of the rapporteur Zdeněk Ondráček. I've already asked him to take the floor at the news desk. Mr Vice-President, I think it's enough peace to give you your opening word. It's a first reading, so hopefully the rapporteur won't comment on your performance. I demand his presence, but the Rules of Procedure do not. Well, you have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, the amendment to the Act on the residence of foreigners responds in the same way as the previous proposal for a Civil Card Act on the regulation of the European Union concerning identity cards. This time, however, it is not about identity cards issued to citizens of the Czech Republic, but about documents issued by the Ministry of the Interior to citizens of the European Union and their family members who are staying with us. The most significant change will be the fact that family members, citizens of the European Union, will be newly issued documents with biometric data. Since it is necessary to adapt this regulation to our legal order by 2 August next year, thank you for allowing us to start discussing this law. [[11.10 hours]] The second challenge we want to respond to is brexit. We regulate the legal status of the citizens of the United Kingdom and their family members who resided in the territory of the Czech Republic during the decisive period, under the so-called exit agreement, i.e. at the end of 2020. There will also be adjustments to the legal status of part of the members of the family in connection with the adjustments to the certificates issued to family members of the European Union citizens. Based on experience from practice, the conditions for issuing residence permits for more distant family members of the citizens of the European Union are changed, i.e. unmarried couples. The purpose is to prevent the abuse of the law and the social system and eliminate possible security risks. The legal status of family members already residing in the territory does not change at all and the change only affects newcomer family members. That's all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u3	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, for his opening words, which he gave under the authority of the Government. I still miss the rapporteur. [[The O.R. says he's on his way.]] He's on his way. So I'll wait a little while without interrupting the meeting to come, because the press has been ordered by the Security Committee's Organizing Committee... Just a moment... Mr. rapporteur, you're late. I hope your intelligence report will be even shorter. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues, I apologize. I couldn't get through the card for a while, but you can see I made it as soon as I could. I've listened to the Minister's opening words. Basically, the proposal itself needs to be discussed in a rather rapid reading. We had already agreed in advance that we would probably also propose a shortening of the time limit for this law to be negotiated. But we would only do that in the general debate when it is launched. So I beg you to support this law and release to first reading, and then we will continue to discuss matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u5	We'll send him by the second reading. I am opening a general debate in which I have Mr Jan Čižinský's application, and Radek Koten. Mr Čižinský is ready for his speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is presenting a rather large-scale amendment from the Department of Interior legislation workshop. I would like to briefly summarize what this amendment is really about, what it is, or should have been, its essence. Let me give you a little more introduction. One of the most striking features of the current crisis, the current coronation crisis, is that the importance of national borders has increased. The borders were largely closed, and many people who were used to travel had to stay home last year. Many of those who regularly spent Christmas or New Year's Eve somewhere else are not going anywhere. For many of us it was unpleasant, for some it was painful that it was not possible to go abroad. But there are people who have exactly the opposite problem because at the time of the outbreak they found themselves on the opposite side of the border and could not enter, they could not travel to the Czech Republic. In the past few months, I have intervened five times; I have been involved precisely for those foreigners, family members of Czech citizens who are not married or who do not have formalized ties to Czech citizens, which would justify their entry into our country at a time of crisis. Many families have remained separated for a long time, as the government has forgotten about them in the rapid development of crisis legislation, unfortunately many couples are still separated, and this has lasted since March. And now the Minister of the Interior is presenting us with a law designed to permanently and radically limit the rights of those foreigners who are unmarried family members of Czech citizens, that is to say, their partners, as well as some other family members of Czech citizens, such as those dependent on the care of Czech citizens. In fact, these people still had basically the same rights as husbands. It's been like this for about 15 years, and suddenly it's supposed to be different. Suddenly, they're supposed to have a much worse legal status. They are to obtain a special, newly introduced visa, and then submit another application upon arrival in the Czech Republic, to show the amount of income and commercial health insurance that can be financially unavailable for pregnant women, for example, or not available at all. Ladies and gentlemen, this is very important. There really can be a situation where a couple are expecting a baby, and we're going to approve here that we're going to stop the couple from coming together and living together in our country, because a pregnant woman is not going to be insured by many commercial insurance companies. The reason report gives the impression that this tightening up, which is somewhat unfairly called a refinement, was somehow necessary because of the law of the European Union, i.e. as if the Czech Republic simply had to approach this tightening up. It's not like that. The Czech Republic can perform this restriction, but it does not have to, no one is forcing it. The Czech Republic will not violate the law of the European Union if it continues to give better status to these family members of Czech citizens than it is obliged to do so under the law of the European Union. I deeply disagree with what is stated on page 22 of the explanatory memorandum regarding the fact that unmarried couples today have the same rights as spouses in obtaining the right to stay. I quote: The petitioner believes that this equalisation is not justified. The original method of transposition was the so-called gold-plating, the procedure of a Member State of the European Union, which treats the transposition of EU legislation into national law as minimum requirements under European Union law, which is considered undesirable. The petitioner takes the view that national legislation should be standardised. - In other words, it is undesirable for the Ministry of the Interior, or abnormal, if the State grants to some foreigners more than the minimum of the rights that it has to grant with regard to international law or with regard to European law. I don't agree with this philosophy. On the contrary, I think that, in principle, people should have as much rights as possible, as much freedom as possible. Of course, so that it is compatible with the rights and freedoms of others. Let alone the families of Czech citizens, often future husbands and future parents of children who will have our citizenship. That's very important. We are really defending here, or we will prevent people who will have future Czech citizenship from coming. I'll add to the explanatory report what she's not telling herself. I mean that the original intention of the officials of the Ministry of the Interior was to limit the rights of all family members of Czech citizens, i.e. spouses, parents and children of citizens of the Czech Republic. The original intention was even that the family members of Czech citizens should have a lower legal status in the Czech Republic than the families of foreigners from the European Union. For example, for the Ukrainian wife of a Czech citizen to have a worse legal status in the Czech Republic than the Ukrainian wife of a Slovák citizen living in the Czech Republic. Yes, this also allows European Union law, because the European Union only regulates how Member States treat foreigners from other European Union countries and their families, but it does not prescribe to Member States how to treat citizens of their own and families of their own citizens. [[11.20 hours]] However, there was a contradiction against this tightening up in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, so it has been abandoned, and we have only those unmarried citizens on the squad. The essence, however, is still the same. Tighten the position of one group of foreigners who are family members of our citizens, aggravating the legal status of one group of foreigners, which is relatively small, is indeed very small, it is a few dozen citizens, and plays a negligible role in the overall immigration policy of the Czech Republic. In conclusion, allow me to tell a story here from Prague, even from the town area where I am mayor, from this year. One of our citizens has been partners with a stranger who has been working here for several years as a nurse on a work visa, so-called. an employee card. This year, the lady applied for permanent residence, but she miscounted the duration of her stay, did not receive her permanent residence, and was told that it was not until sometime next year. However, as she relied on getting a permanent stay, she did not extend her work visa and found herself here without a visa. Foreign police came to get her, put her in a cell for a while, took her shoelaces, which is standard procedure so she couldn't hang herself. It only turned out well because she could prove that she was a partner of a Czech citizen and therefore a family member. So she could stay here and get a new visa for five years. That's quite all right. But if this amendment were to pass, Minister, if it could not remain here under these conditions, it would have to leave and ask for a new residence permit in the original country, which would of course take a very long time. I really believe that is not necessary. I therefore propose that all tightenings be removed from this amendment for family members of citizens of the Czech Republic, so that only the undisputed provisions concerning Brexit and new identity cards for foreigners are left there. In this reduced text, I think that none of us Members with the amendment can have a problem and we will be able to agree it smoothly. I would therefore like to, Minister, if this could be declared, because otherwise I would not suggest rejecting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u7	I thank Mr Jan Čižinský for his speech. Now, Mr Radek Koten, who is so far... yes, I see another one, I don't think the last one registered is. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u8	Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Mr Minister. It can be said that this law is quite necessary, because those citizens who lived in the UK, they had a child there, and in some way they want to visit the rest of their family here in the Czech Republic, so it is a very important law for them. It can be said that what my previous speaker said here through Mr President, not all things are quite true. It can be said that every person, even if a woman is expecting a child, can arrange commercial insurance and that commercial insurance provides most of those insurance companies. Furthermore, I would add that the SPD will support the amendment, but we do have an amendment prepared because we do not like some vague wording. And the burden of proof should really be on the person to prove that all the facts he gives, and so do those unmarried couples, are true, and that the State has the opportunity to verify those facts that will be presented to him. So, in this sense, we will be submitting an amendment to second reading. And otherwise, of course, we are in favour of giving citizens who live or live in the UK the opportunity to visit their relatives here in the Czech Republic, including children who may be born in the UK, the citizens of Great Britain. So, based on the fact that Great Britain has stepped out of the EU union, it is also necessary to deal with this rather quickly here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u9	I thank Mr Radek Koten. Now, Mr Kopřiva, enrolled in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I will join my predecessor, Mr Čižinský. I think we can all agree here that the passages concerning the treatment of the British citizens' statute and everything about the Brexit, that it's basically okay. And I guess that's where we all understand it's urgent. But, indeed, the passage regarding the status of family members means unmarried partners and other dependents, such as parents, is quite problematic. He's already summed it up by his colleague Čižinský. This year really a lot of families or lots of couples remained divided by boundaries, some still up until now. It's really all the more challenging. And this really isn't about some big group of immigrants coming here right now, but really about the people who already live here, they have a de facto family here, even if they're not married, or it might just be a wider family, and their status here would get worse, there would be a really easier expulsion possible. I share these concerns. And I don't think it's appropriate to actually discriminate against unmarried couples like that against married couples, although I understand that maybe we don't agree on the importance of marriage and maybe unmarried couples, but I think that in the 21st century we should respect those unmarried couples, and maybe we should appreciate the care of some older parents or a wider family. And no, as my colleague Čižinský has already indicated here, threatening people who normally work here live properly here, but maybe they won't fulfill some formality in extending their stay so that they can be expelled. So I'd like to join that request if we could split it up like this so we can figure out the Brexit. And we can talk about the rest of it in the context of the package as well as the asylum law, which is also going to be discussed here in the House. Finally, I am just declaring that I will propose a consultation on the Committee on European Affairs, because this is the implementation of ETIAS. And I think our committee should comment on that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u11	I thank Mr Kopřiv. Now the Minister of the Interior, still in the debate. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u12	Then let me respond to the performances. It's more complicated than ever, because there's always a case where the hardness of the law is excessive and it can hurt someone. But then there are dozens of times that the wording of the present is being abused. And we didn't make it up on the grounds that there wasn't some kind of detailed discussion and analysis ahead of it. It just shows that the partner status is being abused. Here comes the first husband, something goes wrong, so the second husband, the third husband, the fourth husband... The case that my colleague Čižinský spoke of, yes, the lady unfortunately, but by her own fault, she got into a situation where she was here illegally, and the request for an illegal stay cannot be filed under the law for one simple reason, because anyone who is finally expelled would suddenly discover his partner and remain here. So I understand that there are always those who follow the law, and they are the overwhelming majority, and I always regret that for some reason there is a legal construct that complicates their lives, and it shouldn't be. But unfortunately, that's what the minority here stands against, which bends and exploits these laws differently, and then those repressive elements of the state are powerless. This means that we have contributed to this after careful consideration and it is an effort to reduce and prevent the abuse of this provision. Just so we're clear, maybe this is where my colleague Čižinský said we were going to slam the republic and not let anyone in. That's not true. This, of course, does not concern travel, this concerns applications for permanent residence, that is, as far as arrivals into the Czech Republic are concerned. Those people, if they meet all the requirements, they can come. Only if they want to stay here with their partner and apply for permanent residence will they have to prove that they have the money. That seems pretty logical to me. And the combination of what I've been trying to explain here means very frequent cases of abuse, it's just a measure that I think we have to take.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u13	Thank you, Minister. Now with the factual remark of Radek Koten. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u14	Thank you for the floor. It is rare to say that I agree with the Minister on certain matters, but unfortunately I have to give him the truth that it is a relatively high risk of abuse, that someone will make up a relative, and he won't have to prove it. And unfortunately, we need to protect our space here, and we need to set up this law in such a way that we can protect our space in the Czech Republic and not be abused to have families that have absolutely nothing in common here on purpose and totally unsubstantiated grounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the second performance of a colleague of Čižinský. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u16	Thank you. I still thought there was a difference between the ČSSD and the SPD, but what the Minister said here is actually very sad. Minister, you actually said here through the President: rather than abuse one person, we will make it more difficult for everyone, we will all be affected. That is the opposite of what is the basis of the rule of law. Just as far as possible, no one is prevented from actually checking very well if it is true that this person is really family members. It just doesn't say it's not supposed to be done, it's supposed to be done, and it's supposed to be checked carefully, it's just supposed to be indisputable. Indeed, the principle that if someone slipped away from us, we would rather make life more difficult for everyone, is not in harmony with normal life. This means that if you insist that it really needs to be tightened up for the family members of our citizens, it really needs to be tightened up and complicated for everyone, then I can't relate to it. You didn't say in any way that you were open to it to make it right, so I really suggest rejection as a symbol of making life difficult for our people who will find a partner who wants to come to them is really unacceptable to me. And I don't give a damn about how it's possible to check. We all know that. And then the insurance. Let some pregnant woman try to find an insurance company that will insure her when she's pregnant abroad. What was said here is fairy tales. Those insurance companies just won't be able to assure you because they know it won't pay off dramatically if there are complications. We're not lying here. No insurance company will be able to assure you if it is simply not at an unacceptable price limit. 'Cause if the birth gets complicated, the insurance company's just gonna get really, really, really, really sick. So let's not say it's not a problem here. It's a problem, and then we'll interpel here. We have specific examples that happened, that they were pregnant together, and they couldn't be together. And I really think he's against the conviction of many of us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u17	I take it, Mr. Ambassador, you've made a motion to dismiss the law? Yeah, okay, I made a note. Now the rapporteur in the debate and then, still in the debate, the Minister of the Interior and the Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u18	Thank you. I, by your means, would like to see Mr Čižinský. Basically, any change in the material presented is taking place within the so-called second reading. And no one said anyone or the Security Committee wasn't ready for it. If you bring an amendment or, if necessary, be discussed in another committee, the classic standard legislative process does not prevent you from doing such a thing, and either the committee decides and then the Chamber of Deputies, as the specific amendment will sound, as mentioned by Mr President of the Security Committee, Mr Radek Koten. He has a prepared amendment, the committee will deal seriously with it, and either his proposal will pass because he has his logic and we will lean towards it majorityly or he will not pass. And it won't be the first time a proposal like that hasn't passed. And the fact that the SPD is in agreement with the Czech Social Democratic Party in this matter, I would not be looking for anything complicated. Here's the professional material that we're talking about, and the consensus that's here is just good that we can find the match and we don't always have to be in conflict and at all costs. As for the insurance, if another citizen of a Member State of the European Union should be the partner, she is insured with her home state and the insurance is paid to her in the Czech Republic. If she's a third-country citizen, a third-country citizen, she's either insured if she's traveling to us, which I assume she is, and if she isn't, of course it's a different matter. But let's not look for the problem that's just not there. The basis is to allow, let's say, the English children, to call it that, after brexit. And basically, our asylum system, the asylum laws and the laws on alien residence are somehow set up, and I think they're set up well. And if there are certain problems of the individual, it is always appropriate to solve them, but the majority protection of society is, I think, more important from our point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u19	Mr rapporteur, you have signaled in the intelligence report the question of the deadline for discussion. So I'm asking you to comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u20	Yes, thank you. It is a good thing you are listening to me very carefully, Mr President. In agreement with the petitioner, I propose that the deadline be reduced by 20 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u21	Okay, I made a note. Now in the debate, Mr Home Secretary and Prime Minister Jan Hamáček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u22	I'm still in response to a colleague of Čižinský. I noticed two reservations during the preparation of the material. I have noted the reservation that there is a need to provide income, and I have noted the reservation that it is possible to expel these people. But I'd like to ask my colleague Čižinský where he found the insurance. I know that in this package of laws that we're dealing with here, insurance is being dealt with in the Asylum Act, but that concerns children born in our territory, I've already consulted with my officials, but I haven't found anything on the insurance. So maybe you don't have something else to do with your colleagues. But I see two issues in this law that can be discussed, and that's expulsion and proof of income, but there's not a word about insurance in my mind and my system. Well, if I do, I guess I'll apologize, but I haven't found anything yet. And with the receipts and the eviction papers, I think that if someone is a long-term partner of someone living with him, I guess he has no problem supporting the income, I suppose that's a simple thing to do. And if there's a expulsion there, it's given, and I'm going to say it quite frankly, by saying that there's basically a specific group that you could call Algerian beach boys, and they're going to travel here to this title, and then it turns out that love isn't that big anymore, and they're giving us problems here. People like that need to be expelled. Of course, I believe that this is not the case for everyone, that even on Algerian beaches can form a beautiful relationship, but unfortunately the reality is that for one such beautiful relationship there are several dozen problems. So I'm just saying, if it turns out that these guys are gonna get in here and cause us problems here, then we need to deal with it from a state standpoint. So for me, I'm trying to explain these two reservations. I don't see a word about insurance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u23	Thank you. I have no one else in the debate, and I ask if anyone is joining the debate. [[Restlessness in the room.]] Another colleague of Mr. Kopřiva, do I understand? Dear colleagues, we are discussing the law on the residence of foreigners in the Czech Republic and the debate is taking place here in other levels. I ask those who discuss something else so fundamentally in the foyer. And if colleague Kopřiva is interested in a performance? [[Members of Chižinský and Kopřiva are debating each other.]] So which one of you, folks? My colleague Kopřiva. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u24	I'm sorry. We needed a quick consult. Only on behalf of the Pirates and KDU-ČSL club do we veto the shortening of deadlines.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u25	You can't do that because it's about 20 days, and it's legally invincible. You can veto shortening by more than 30 days. My colleague Čižinský in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u26	Thank you, I'm just technically. It should be point 15, 87b paragraph 3d two. There is directly, the travel health insurance should be required. So let's take a look at this, and then it turns out who reads this better.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u27	Okay, thank you. This, of course, is a matter for committee discussions and for second reading. Who's next in the debate? If no one reports, I am done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Neither the rapporteur nor the Minister will therefore address the proposals tabled in the debate. The first motion is to reject the bill. I'm gonna sing because I've asked my noisy colleagues and colleagues to discuss in the lobby, which is why I'm gonna use the gong. And at the same time, I'm going to sign you off, and I'm going to ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. And in the vote number one hundred and sixty-eight, once the number of entries is settled, we will decide on a motion to dismiss, but before that, they will report... Minister, open the debate, are you aware of that? You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u28	I'm aware of that, but I think it's fair to close this thing off with the insurance. I felt that my colleague Čižinský is beating us here for something that we are introducing newly, however, as I was informed, the condition of submitting health insurance does not change at all, that is, the point you refer to is the currently valid wording of the law, so we do not make any changes there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u29	Okay, so we continue with the reopened debate by speaking to Mr Jan Čižinský. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u30	Thank you. I didn't say we were introducing it again. I said we were introducing this new for the group I was talking about, for the partners of those Czech citizens. So I don't understand why the Minister is here, saying that we read it wrong when I say what I say, and it's completely true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u31	Okay, thank you. Who's next in the reopened debate? I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate again. I'm asking again if there's any interest in final words. Not anymore, so we can really proceed to the vote on the proposals that have been tabled. First, a motion to dismiss. We will decide in the 168 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the rejection. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 168. At present 93, for 14, anti 32. The proposal was not accepted, so we will consider the proposals for the commandments. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. I'm asking if anyone's checking in. Then my colleague Kopřiva claims to change the guarantee committee. No, not a guarantee. Okay. We will therefore vote on the guarantee committee being the Security Committee. We will decide in the 169 vote that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 169. From the present 95 to 94, against no one. The Guarantee Committee is therefore the Security Committee. I note that this proposal has been directed to the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose ordering this press to other committees. Anyone reporting for the debate? Yes, my colleague Kopřiva. Please, Mr. Ambassador, what's your suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u32	Thank you for the floor. I still want to apologize to the honourable House, I didn't hear about the shortening before, I thought it was for 20 days, not 20 days, so I'm sorry we couldn't bring it down. I would therefore like to propose a further commandment to discuss the Committee on European Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-17-ps2017-072-07-002-118.u33	Okay, the European Affairs Committee. We will decide in the vote number 170. Who is in favour of the commandment of the Committee on European Affairs? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 170, 95 present, for 30, against 10. The motion was not accepted. There was no other proposal, so we will consider a proposal to shorten the deadline for discussion by 20 days, i.e. 40 days. We will decide in the vote number 171, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 171. There are 95 Members present, for 64, against 1. The motion was accepted. So I am of the opinion that this proposal has been ordered by the Security Committee as a guarantee committee, the time limit for the hearing has been reduced by 20 days. I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, the rapporteur, and I conclude with paragraph 118. The next item is:
