ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u1	369. Members of Kateřina Valachová and Patrik Nacher's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial executioners and enforcement activities (executive order), as amended, and Act No. 119/2001 Coll., laying down rules for cases of simultaneous enforcement of decisions, as amended /German press 986/ - third reading I ask that the rapporteur's seat be taken for the plaintiff Mr Kateřina Valachová and the rapporteur for the guarantee committee, which is the constitutionally-legal committee, Mr Marek Výborný. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 986/3, which was delivered on 23 October 2020. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 986/4. I am now asking the appellant if she is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. You're interested, so please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u2	Mr President, colleagues, fellow Members, dear government, let me take this opportunity to remind you of what the protected account should be. The protected account I submit addresses 100% of the situation of employees or pensioners or parents on parental leave and others if they are newly executed as a result of the coronavirus crisis. You already know from my opening words at first reading that this was the main objective of accelerating this parliamentary initiative. A protected account will be created in the case of the attachment of an account in this situation. Payments will be protected, court or court bailiff, payers must act without delay. That's also new. The bank must protect the funds from sending their data within five days at the latest. Protecting funds - this is very important. The second group of people to whom this is intended to help deal 100% with the situation of today's debtors, who have settled accounts and amounts unprotected. This means, even those who are incorruptible or incorruptible, such as deducted wages, additions to housing, child allowance, deducted pensions, etc. Again, a protected account will be created again for these cases, payments will be protected, court, judicial bailiff, payers, that is, employers, but also, for example, the Czech Social Security Administration or the Labour Office must act without delay, the bank must protect funds from sending their data within five days at the latest. And the third situation that the protected account solves is the situation of today's debtors, who are so-called completely out of the system, working only black, in the grey zone and have no account at all. The debtor sets up an account; the bank must not prevent it; in the case of the bank's account, it must pay at least CZK 11,580, which is three times the minimum of life, to the debtor. It must not transfer these funds anywhere, it is also a novelty, it does not work this way today, and a new protected account will be created. Then everything works as in the other two cases, payments will be protected, court, bailiff, payers must act immediately, the bank must protect funds within five days at the latest. For these situations of this third group of debtors Charity, Association of Civil Advisory, Czech Association mandatory, all these organizations are ready to help debtors, and the fact that this is effective assistance, confirm against the current state. Thank them for that. I mean that other political parties, such as the Pirate Party, the SPD, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, also support the parliamentary proposal for social democracy and the ANO movement. It is a proposal that, after ten, after fifteen years, is in a situation where no one has ever submitted anything before, and at the moment we have the approval of the government, the approval of the Ministry of Justice, the Czech National Bank, which oversees the banking market. I also appreciate the approval of the Judging Union, I note, because, together with the Judging Union, I think, not only do I have the objective of making execution in the Czech Republic look like both the debtor and the creditor are equal and that the game is played fair according to fair rules. Also the union's approval as employees' representatives. You know that the absence of protected accounts crushes the labour market. And also the approval of employers' associations, Charity, the Association of Civil Advisory and the Czech Association of Compulsory. Ladies and gentlemen, the protected account is presented very recently and also accelerated due to the coronavirus situation. I would just like to inform you that yesterday there was a great challenge not only to entrepreneurs, experts, NGOs, here I will mention Charity or the Council of Seniors, as well as to sociologists and economists who have turned to the Prime Minister to act on the matter of execution. I think that this bill from the workshop of Members, as I have described, is a contribution to this debate, which should show that we mean it with shifts (?), executions, really. We want fair payment of debts, we don't want to owe slavery, we want creditors and debtors to have equal standing, and we don't want executions for executions. I would like to discuss this in a matter of fact in the general debate, and today, although it is Friday 13th, I hope that this will not be bad news for the protected account, we will approve the protected account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u3	I am now opening up a debate in which I have Mr Marek Výborný, and with the actual application, it is then... [[A voice from the diaper.]] Yes, Mr Marek. Excellent in the general debate is signed up. [[Off the mic: as a newsletter.]] No, no, before the debate is opened, the plaintiff is speaking, but you are still the first in the general debate, and as rapporteur, you have priority rights, so it is basically the same for you, so, apart from my one introductory sentence, you haven't lost your space. So... if you are logged in, Mr rapporteur, come forward, then Mr Jan Hrnčíř will speak with a point of fact, and then there is Mr Stanislav Grospič, Mr Patrik Nacher and Mrs Helena Válková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will first allow myself to take the role of rapporteur of this law briefly in order to fulfil all obligations. The Constitutional Legal Committee discussed the second reading submitted by the House press 986, as presented by the appellant here, at her meeting on 4 November and you all received a resolution on 9 November as House press 986/4. I would like to point out that there is, of course, a voting procedure. I will then introduce you to this, as well as to the Committee's opinions on the amendments tabled. However, what I would like to report in advance, and my colleague Helena Válková has already signed up for the discussion, a consensus has been expressed on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, including in a resolution that says that the Constitutional and Legal Committee, through a Member of Helena Válková, recommends that the date of application of this bill be corrected on 1 April 2021. It is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House and my colleague Helena Válková will also introduce you to this. For the rapporteur, I therefore say that this is in line with what has been discussed on the constitutionally-legal committee. And now, after this intelligence report, I will now take the liberty of speaking as a Member. I've already performed on this matter both at first and second readings. It sounded here thanks to the direction of the petitioners. I am a little sorry to hear that Mrs Valachová is here stating that we have not been mentioned, because she knows very well that since the beginning of the KDU-ČSL Club supports the establishment of a protected account, whether it was within the House press 545 or now in the accelerated version, we have also recommended it, so I am saying it here, unambiguously and unanimously not only for you, but also for the public. KDU-ČSL welcomes this as an important tool to protect the unforgivable minimum. Unfortunately, today's situation, it's been described many times, it's very miserable. Very often, as part of the tough efforts to get the best out of the debt recovered, it actually gets to that amount unforgivable as part of the executor run. It is even illegal, but if the right here cannot prevent this, it is the institute of a protected account that is completely justified. So thank you for the suggestion. KDU-ČSL has always supported and supported him and will vote for him in principle in any version at this time, because these amendments will not change anything fundamental about him. I would like to comment on it and also recommend it for myself as the petitioner of one of the amendments. The proposal goes without saying against the proposed proposal by colleagues Valachová and Nacher, but I am also convinced, on the basis of a debate with all the essential elements of the process, that the original proposal needs to be improved in some parts. This concerns mainly the creation of a protected account, its creation, so as to make it easier and faster. This concerns changes in the course of a mandatory job, a new part-time job, a new activity on a work agreement, etc., so that the whole wheel in the quotes of the Martyria does not have to do it again. This concerns sending funds to a protected account, and therefore, in addition to persons and experts from the nonprofit sector, please nicely, the proposal is closely consulted with them, supported, whether it was Man in Need or the company RUBIKON, or Charity of the Czech Republic. It really makes sense, and it's for the benefit. We're here with my colleague Nacher, my colleague Válková and Valachová and others on the same ship. We want a protected account institute that really works. We want protected accounts not only to be tens, but hundreds, respectively. thousands, and in order to eventually manage the banking sector. That's what I think is very crucial. We simply cannot remove any segment from the debate, which is why I consulted the Czech Banking Association as well, because in the finals it will be the banks that, to a large extent, together with the executors, will have to be dragged into the administration of the entire institute of the protected account. Of course, in my proposal, we also transfer a certain degree of responsibility to the debtor, which I think is fine, because the institute of the protected account is directed as assistance to the mandatory, and it is not possible if I say it very popularly so that it just falls into their laps. So it's not something that makes them dramatically burdened. In principle, the proposal goes in a simplistic way and is for the benefit of everyone and, above all, it should be applicable and feasible in practice, including from the banking sector. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for considering the support of this amendment, which does not change the protected account that improves, I underline the word improves, the original proposal and will benefit everyone, especially those whom we want to help, and these are the debtors who often end up without funds today. They need these resources so that they can fulfil their basic responsibilities to their children, to their families, so that they do not remain without basic means of living. Thanks for your support, and I'm aware that this isn't really the only step. It's first and important, but we've already discussed an amendment to the insolvency law here yesterday, which is equally important. They are a bit of a continuous vessel, and as far as the House Press 545 - Enforcement Order is concerned, I am the last person to prevent this discussion as chair of the subcommittee on the issue of enforcement, insolvency and debt relief. We have done this many times, and at this point with great impatience I expect that the necessary basis will come from the Ministry of Justice so that we, as Members, can continue reading so that we can prepare amendments and discussions for the 545 Houses as soon as possible to complete them. If, in this sense, there will also be factual cooperation from the Prime Minister so that this thing does not fall under the table, then I will just be happy and welcome. It is for the benefit of all debtors, but it is also for the benefit of creditors. It just has to be functional and balanced to do what it's supposed to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u5	Mr Jan Hrnčíř will now speak on the point of fact and Mr Stanislav Grospič will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm just going to briefly comment on what was said here. And as has already been said here, we in the SPD, of course, actively support the institute of the protected account, because it is one of the methods to prevent unauthorized executions that literally destroy debtors and their families. Of course, we actively support four times the minimum of life to stay on this protected account after 31. 12th this year, make debtors and their families, children etc. they had enough resources to survive at all. However, it is still just a small step and it is a solution to some consequences. I would just like to remind you that here we have our proposals, from the SPD pen, where we want to put interest on loans, so that there is no interest on usury, so that the debt traps don't fall into the debt traps, so that the borrowers are paid off first, and then only the interest, so that the borrowing costs of the borrowers are reduced again. We also support territoriality, and we are co-submitors of the executors' territoriality proposal, which, in turn, is intended to reduce the costs, as in Slovakia, that is to say, to avoid increasing debts to eight-tenfold, etc. These are all the proposals that we have here, and we hope that they will be pushed through even in this House so that those debtors will really be helped, but they will also level out the relationship towards the creditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u7	Mr Stanislav Grospič will now speak in the general debate and Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, honourable colleagues, I am fully aware of the deep issues of execution. I know that there are two very serious prints outside a number of others, 545 and 986, which deal with the issue of execution and civil order. I know that press 545 is rushing from my point of view into the trap of history, because its broad scope and complexity of the amendments that cross each other require the only solution, from my point of view, that the government will adopt a comprehensive amendment through the Minister of Justice, and that it will enter the House and direct the debate, or it will simply withdraw it and quickly seek consensus on the new bill, because, in my view, it is difficult to discuss and pronounce. And most importantly, it doesn't solve any of the problems that burden creditors on one side, on the other side of debtors. [[12.30 hours]] I'm sure we can agree that the principle is that debts are to be paid and should not be made and creditors should achieve them, and we can certainly agree that they should not be abused either side. I think the 986, which we're talking about right now, and we're talking about a protected account, is a step. This is not an absolute step that will fundamentally contribute to resolving the question of the position of creditors or debtors, but can significantly help where the executive chamber, bailiffs, exceeds certain limits set by today's legislation and where there is complex defence. I understand that there will always be a penzion of persons who might have a tendency to look at it in some way, that it will look for a certain way to benefit from it, to bypass legal regulations, but I don't think we can abstract it and in any way rule out any legal regulation and legal regulation. I would now be inclined to go against what is essential, so that we should lean towards giving the opportunity to live a protected account, so that this method and this option enter into practice as quickly as possible, so that we have the opportunity to judge, or our successors here in the Chamber of Deputies, whether it was a step in the right direction, whether it contributed to eliminating and getting rid of one of the biggest problems related to executions, whether their enforcement or circumvention, and at the same time providing guarantees to those who honestly want to pay and get rid of them. On the other hand, they will always be left with a certain amount that is necessary for their existence, will not live forever and will not be driven into the shadows of the grey economy. That means there's going to be some amount here, I'd like the amount of four times, let's say it's going to be three times the minimum of life, but there's going to be some amount that's going to be unusable and that's going to be deposited like this, and it's going to be deposited in a protected account. I also understand the huge lobby of the banking sector, which has a problem with that. They approached only a few of us, an official letter came, and I think that almost every member of this legislature, where they put up with a number of arguments as to why this should be accepted or not, and what other amendments should be adopted. But I think that sometimes beauty is in simplicity, and I intercede for the solution to be the way it was finally recommended and why it was adopted by the constitutionally-legal committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u9	Mr Marek the Výborný will now speak with a point of fact. Mr Patrik Nacher will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u10	Thank you for the floor. I must respond to the introduction of what Mr Grospič said through you. Mr. Colleague, that's not true. I have to dement it as chairman of the subcommittee. They simply have a press of 545 - and I believe that there are many groups here, perhaps many individuals who would like it to end under the table, but it simply cannot happen. First of all, the consolidated text after the session of the Constitutional and Legal Committee has already been written by the House, it is available to the Ministry of Justice, and I personally have been promised by Minister Benešová the synergies that are being fulfilled these days in order to prepare such a text, a version of a legislative text that can serve to complete the second reading of this bill. I am convinced that if this is not in December, it will be at the nearest possible meeting, even if an extraordinary meeting is to be convened, eventually I have talked to the government Members about it, and then we will actually finish the work. And if there are any other things that can get into that final version, it's up to us MPs. But what I want to say is that there are important points from the constitutionally-legal committee that have been pushed through, whether it be a question of solving the past, such as stopping futile bailiffs, a gracious summer, that means forgiving the outrageous accessories, not the principal, but an outrageous accessory beyond the state, whether it be the humanization of Mobilitarian executions. Although it was not voted on the Constitutional Legal Committee, my colleague Nacher and I nod at each other here, we are both behind it and it is very important. So please nicely, the press is important, it will help, and if we don't negotiate it, we've been here for three years for nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u11	Mr Stanislav Grospič has made a point of fact. Patrik Nacher is still ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. By means of you, my previous speaker, Mr Výborný. I didn't mean any harm. I would also like the previous press to be discussed and not to be what the Minister of Justice once called a potato potato. So that a comprehensive amendment from the Ministry of Justice could indeed come as soon as possible so that this press could be negotiated. That would be the most ideal solution. But here we are playing for time in a way, because we must be aware that the parliamentary term of the Chamber of Deputies is running short. This proposal is very likely to experience its history in the second Chamber of Parliament of the Czech Republic, the Senate. We must anticipate that it will most likely also return back here to the Chamber of Deputies, and we must calculate all of this. So if it succeeds, we might have it here at second reading sometime in January, and we'll know exactly what we're going to be discussing. Personally, I'm just gonna welcome it, and I'm gonna help.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u13	Mr Patrik Nacher will now appear and prepare Mrs Helena Válková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice afternoon. I also dare to say a few words as one of the translators. Firstly, I am pleased that on Friday the 13th we approve this meaningful and useful standard. It turned out to be quite strategically advanced and correct decision that we actually prepared things that can be solved separately, isolated from the robust so-called execution novel. I think it turned out to be the right solution, because the institute of the protected account can be discussed separately, it has its logic, and we can actually go deeper because we're dealing with only one material. I remind you of the expert debate on § 304c and d, when I look at the rapporteur of the Excellent, there we really went into a huge detail. That's what I think the moment we're dealing with a robust standard here, we wouldn't be able to do that. That's the first point. Second note, who's the protected account for? The protected account solves both the current situation, that is, the number of people who are avoiding cash-free payment services today purely because when they have it or have it, they have lost the so-called unforgivable amount and, secondaryly, they have to borrow for their necessary mandatorial expenses. We're not saying, and I hope there's a consensus that we can make 100 percent of people who have already gone into the grey zone and avoid it, some deliberately, some but from the instinct of self-preservation, we can't just patronize everything, so we're not saying that we're going to address all of these hundred percent of people, but a whole lot of people are just going to think about how they're going to work in the future, given their retirement age and how they're going to calculate their future pensions, etc. etc. So that's the group of those present. Then it has reason to be so-called preventive. This means that in the future it is clear - and now we are dealing with coronavirus and various measures and the situation is despite the current decline of people in execution, I am glad - so in the future it actually shows that there will be some institute that will protect something - as it follows from the name - should be automatic, it is some unforgivable amount, an unforgivable minimum. By the way, the amount went up three times this year. So it actually has an impact on the present, and it has an impact on the future as a prevention. [[12.40 hours]] And one last point to keep me from stalling. I will take the liberty of responding to my colleague, Marek Benda, from the previous debate on a substitute maintenance which I have not been involved in. To me, his arguments - I have to admit, I agreed with them, with the arguments, they seemed logical. I also hate to, and you know, divide the world into black and white, where there are clear victims and on the other hand clear predators. I wouldn't agree with the only exception, which is that he was referring to the institute of the protected account, because it's not exactly about the black and white world. The protected account is the answer purely to the fact that there was a situation where the debtor was seized by an amount which simply should not have been seized. That's what this is about. It's not about sticking to debtors or creditors in any other case. So in this case, I would take the liberty of showing that this is not the black-and-white view that we sometimes see here in this debate. And I agree with him, with Marek Benda, but in this case it's an institute, but I'm glad we're dealing with him in isolation right now, which doesn't look at the world in black and white, but which protects something that should be protected automatically, and it should have been a long time ago. By the way, the so-called so-called Germany works successfully in Germany. P-Conto. What I said at second reading and what is a challenge for us when we talk about it, there is another category that we should help in this matter and in this context, and these are, please, employers. And that is a challenge for us in the future. Employers are those who have absolutely nothing to do with it, neither with the creditor, nor with the debtor, but they have a lot of paperwork, a lot of worries, a lot of bureaucracy, and if they do it wrong, fines can come, etc. So that's where I think we're supposed to be working on this. It's not part of this proposal, but I think it's good to hear it here. Thank you for your support, for your attention, and let's have a nice Friday on the 13th.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u15	Mrs Helena Válková will now appear and Mr Lukáš Kolářík will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It is my dear duty, because I have been entrusted with the three resolutions of the Guarantee Constitutional Law Committee, which was sitting at its 71st meeting, in resolution 231 of 4 November 2020, to submit, therefore, the amended Section 95 paragraph 986 to this House of Press. In Part Four of the Act on the Rules of Procedure, the proposal from the House to amend the date of application in this proposed law, which relates precisely to effectiveness. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. VI the words "1 January 2021" shall be replaced by "1 April 2021"; [[The power is noisy.]] Here it should be recalled quite clearly that the standard that we have introduced, which I personally consider to be very good in terms of certain legal certainty of citizens, that we always adopt laws or amendments to the laws adopted by us on 1 January and 1 July of the relevant calendar year, but there is still a possibility, in exceptional cases, if justified by the petitioner - and I will now try to justify this briefly - to indicate another date there. Here in this case, this is a very simple explanation. We are in an extraordinary situation, unprecedented, experienceless, pandemic crisis, and we are receiving not only signals, but also evidence that there is a very intense decline in some economic sectors and, of course, related problems. They are mainly members or representatives of the middle class or lower middle class, but it is definitely the meat of the people who fulfil their obligations at a normal time, and at that time abnormal, like the pandemic crisis caused by the coronavirus, they are getting into situations that we as legislators should deal with, we should respond to. But, of course, when such a standard, as my previous speakers have explained in detail here, is being prepared, it will cause a number of other problems and must be amended in the best possible way in a relatively short time or a short time as well as related procedural regulations. So some regulation must be prepared to survive the extraordinary situation and prove necessary. I am convinced that we have succeeded, not without the loss of feathers, but perhaps the example of efficiency is proof that we originally assumed that banks would be able to prepare themselves. As you know, they have to discuss general terms and conditions with clients, that's two months, they have to set up technological systems, another month. So the proposed date on January 1 would actually lead to us having a law, but the law would not work at all because banks would not be able to set up such accounts. So, of course, there would be a date that's standard in the novel - 1. 7. 2021 - but the extraordinary situation of the pandemic crisis also affecting the economy and the life of all of us leads us to believe that there is an urgent interest, that there is a justified exceptional example where an earlier date can be set here than that of 1. 7. and that date is the first quarter, where, after not quite easy negotiations, as the petitioners can confirm, the banks managed to convince them that they could do it on April 1, if we now approve it. So I propose a change in effectiveness. I would just like to continue, but only briefly so that you, dear colleagues, know or realize together with those who are most concerned, that this is a certain principle of solidarity, which we show that we, who do not yet need a protected account, can well imagine the situation of you who already need it. And I think that even across the political parties, a political spectrum of such new legal regulation, regardless of whether it is coalition or opposition, we will support or most of us. I certainly hope so. And what was said here by the petitioner - in fact, the proponents of the proposal are two, Mrs Valachová, Mr Nacher and others - but also those amendments, the amendment by Mr Výborný, Mr Kohoutek and others, they also went through discussions on how to address this issue as best as possible, by non-state non-profit organisations. A person in distress has been appointed here, and I will add a Rubikon as such, who holds the flag in this area and tries to influence in that positive sense the resulting form of what we now accept. And they say yes, especially if it turns out that, in some ways, the law will still need to be supplemented, refined, so now is the right moment for the banks to actually make it through that deadline on April 1, 2021. And I am very pleased that, thanks to the joint proposal, we succeeded there, and it was not a matter of course, to include in the protected account the protection of maintenance in that comprehensive extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u17	Mr Lukáš Kolářík will now be the last to speak in the general debate. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good afternoon, too. Allow me, too, to comment briefly on the bill for the pirát. Of course, we pirát will support this proposal. First of all, because we had him on the program, but that's not the point. The important thing is that it is a proposal that brings about the removal of one of the greatest paradoxes that we have here, and that the unforgivable minimum is really impotent, it is being confiscated. The second benefit we see there is that those people who are often out of the system today, and especially outside the banking system, do not have those credit cards, so they will partly get back into the system, because they will be able to start using this service, which is especially useful at this difficult time, when, of course, a lot of those purchases for basic life needs are going on remotely online. However, when we looked at the proposal, of course he is not ideal, we have some reservations about it, but they are not so crucial that we cannot support this law. From our point of view, when I compare it to protecting the debtor, I'm comparing the unprotected account to the umbrella, so it's a heavy, ugly, unsightly umbrella with a hard-hitting mechanism that opens up in a complex way. However, if it opens once, it stands and holds and protects the debtor. It will serve the purpose for which it is to serve. I would also like to point out here that we, as pirát, have a read amendment to local jurisdiction, because we think that this is closely related. Given that if only one bailiff were to provide it, there would be no such excesses, because he would know that this is an unforgivable amount, because there are wage collisions and he would not confiscate these things. The second amendment, which I would like to ask you to support, is the so-called open data. This is about the executor's chamber publishing anonymously statistics on executions, which means how many executions we have, how we stand, so that we can discuss our next proposals on the basis of data, and we can build some kind of analyst on it. At the same time, let me point out that we support the four times the minimum. The amendment, it also seems to us to be in order and meaningful. It is important that these people can initially choose the basic means to make a living so that they can adapt to the new situation that is happening, and it is such that they will now live with quite limited means for a few months. We also agree with this amendment, which was read by my colleague Válková, which means extending the effectiveness from 1. 4. 2021, because we understand that there are a lot of players in this, including banks, and we need to give them some time to implement these measures to make it, because from that one. 1. 2021 is really a gallows term. But what we will not support to say all this is an amendment from the Group of Members around the Excellent, because to follow the analogy with those umbrellas, this proposal is nice and simple to look at, it is a summer umbrella that is easily opened, it is beautifully colored, but when the storm really comes, it rains or is directly taken from the person it is intended to protect. For this reason, unfortunately, we will not support this proposal. Otherwise, I am glad that the topic has finally been opened, that finally after a long time it will be approved, I suppose, I have such signals that there should be no problem, and we will finally have here a thing that will prevent the illegal collisions of people who already have that wage hit once and the second time it will come to their account. It's not right to put them down, it's an interesting paradox, and I'm glad we can solve it. Thank you for your support for my amendments and thank you for your support in the final vote of this protected account.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u19	I will look around to see if anyone else has any interest in speaking in the general debate. I don't see anybody, so I'm done with the general debate. Now I'm asking if there's still interest in the final words? prosit, plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Dear Government, thank you for the substantive debate. There is no doubt that existing bank accounts are slave accounts, because they simply allow unforgivable amounts or unforgivable amounts to be recovered. It has a fatal effect on our labour market, our employees, our employers. Because, of course, it is important to pay debts, and we want to support paying debts to creditors, and that is how protected accounts are supposed to work, but at the moment we have nothing like that. It is not, frankly, a pardon for debtors, because they pay their debts, but it is a correction of a terrible state, where we really have not been able to ensure, as a state, the protection of unforgivable amounts and unpunished amounts that are not subject to execution. I'd like to respond to the debate. I'm sure the proposal, as it's put forward, is of great value in protecting funds from the time the protected account was established. That's a huge added value. It also has value in giving clear responsibilities and time obligations to banks, bailouts and the obligation to join accounts. That is the true nature, meaning and spirit of the law, that is what will move the practice forward. The current practice of slave accounts is that if, as a debtor, you want to be able to make an unforgivable amount and incorruptible to be protected, you are doomed to Martyrium attempts at partial or complete stopping today and again, tomorrow, yesterday, all the time, which, of course, burden not only executors, but above all employers. Patrik Nacher mentioned it here. As far as Patrik Nacher is concerned, I hereby confirm that employers are very interested in introducing protected accounts, even if they consider them primarily a benefit for their employees, so they support them, and employers' associations have two conditions that are not exceeded. The first condition is, fundamentally disagrees with the fact that account numbers could or would have to change according to the bill. He doesn't agree. It's a condition of all employers' unions. I promised them I'd tell the House plenary here. The second condition is that it does not agree with a situation where a protected account would allow for a change in its protection back and forth, back and forth within months or even weeks. That's the second non-excessible condition. I also promised them that I would bring this here. As far as the amendments are concerned, I will comment on them as to what our views will be as translators. I still consider it important, because I think that the facts are important, and we are all trying to make things work the way they should, so I want to say - because the Minister of Justice is not present - the position of the Ministry of Justice on the only disagreement that has been raised within the constitutionally-legal committee, and that is the amendment of the Member of the Excellent and others. And I will also mention the position of the Judging Union. I think that the position of the Ministry of Justice and the position of the Judging Union should be heard here, but very briefly indeed. I mean, the Justice Department. The relevant bases and legislative processing do not provide a functional and in practice easy-to-use regime. A proposal of honest but not very financially literate mandatory excess duties and responsibilities will lead to a trap. The mandatory person will have to continuously germinate incoming payments and check, where appropriate, permanent debit orders and permissions, including the SIPO service normally used, otherwise he is in danger of spending more than he can, and will have to replace it under sanctions to cancel a protected account and subsequently the impossibility of establishing a protected account for a certain period of time, but precisely because the execution of the execution of the enforcement decision with the provision of sufficient funds may have a problem. On the other hand, sanctions can be relatively toothless. For example, before the enforcement of the decision takes place. Due to the minimum monthly delay referred to in paragraph 7, dishonest mandatory money may be collected from the account. It can be summarized that instead of the bank's ingers in print 986, which replaces complex control procedures in PN, it will have to check something that may not be able to check and document something that it may not be able to prove or at least not always. Where appropriate, the court or judicial executor shall determine in proceedings other than those relating to the commandment of the claim on the account whether there are illegal means in the protected account, although it would be easier to filter at the entrance. [[13.00 hours]] This is an opinion with the Judging Union. The original proposal binds the protected account to another account which is required by the bank and which is affected by the execution, and these accounts are essentially tied up. In this case, the original proposal is more reasonable because only some payments, clearly defined, can be made to a protected account by the bank according to the original proposal, and the other additions are automatically left in the original account. The original proposal also does not leave the identification of the protected income on a compulsory basis, but is marked by an executor and the bank has clear instructions. Of course, I have only said what I really consider important for the functionality of protected accounts in the field, in practice for the conditions formulated by employers, and Patrik Nacher is certainly right that their position is important, and therefore two of those persons who are supposed to guarantee that things work as part of the justice agenda. Now, on the amendments. As for the proposal to four times the minimum of life, I have announced here that we will have a neutral position with the petitioner Patrik Nacher. I myself will vote in favour of a four-fold increase, but I respect - and the position of the petitioner will be neutral, because this is how we are agreed with Patrik Nacher and the ANO movement. For your information, while triple the minimum of living amounts to CZK 11,580, four times would amount to CZK 15,440. The unusable amount per individual today after an increase by the government is CZK 7 772 per individual and then CZK 2,590 per other member of the household. I would also like to inform you, as regards the current wages of employees, that more than half of employees are under CZK 30,000 gross and more than 30% of employees up to CZK 25,000 gross. All I'm saying is that you have a situation and, of course, you've decided on your best knowledge and conscience and club opinions. As regards the adjustment of fees, I proposed this as an amendment. I note that the central bank has recommended this and requested it. I appreciate the views of the central bank because, of course, it oversees the banking market and it is important that we respect its positions for functionality. So the fee adjustment - here we will agree as the submitters, as well as, of course, the efficiency adjustment, as my colleague Válková has read. This is actually another thing that has been requested and is important for the banking sector. Another matter concerns the protection of maintenance. This is a radical and absolute protection of maintenance for a protected account, once again a consenting position. As far as open data and territoriality are concerned, these are the proposals of my colleague Kolařík. I have announced that, of course, I have some professional opinion on this, which is well known for a long time, but I do not think that there is an opportunity right now to push it through in this way at third reading, which is why we will have a neutral position as the promoter. As far as the last proposal is concerned, it is an amendment by Mr Výborný and others, for the reasons I have described, we will have a disagreeable opinion. I'm not even in the war. I'm not in the war. It's just some two approaches that, from my point of view, are simply not compatible at this point in time. Thank you for your attention, colleagues, and I believe that today, although it is Friday the 13th, this Chamber of Deputies, across the political spectrum, will put an end to the slave accounts and implement the accounts protected. Patrik Nacher and I pulled this bill into this reading and into an accelerated procedure to prevent a number of people from getting into trouble the way they did in the last economic crisis. And unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this time is coming.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u21	Thank you. Thank you, plaintiff. I ask the House for more peace. I'm asking the rapporteur if he's interested in the final word. This is so, so please now the final word of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I don't think I'd perform, but I'll take the liberty of reacting. I really do not know any relation between Mrs Valachová and the Ministry of Justice. She's a Member of the Chamber of Deputies. And I wonder, and I think it's completely unprecedented, that he lectures here as the Justice Department. However, since they are already doing so, I would consider it really serious that you quote a position that is not a final opinion, Mrs Vice-President, because, on the basis of the settlement of the observations of the Ministry of Justice, we have modified the amendment. And you were quoting the position that was made before this adjustment. [[Mrs. Valachová off the microphone: No, no, no.]] I find it unserious, so I just took the liberty of saying it here. Period. [[Mrs Valachová off the microphone from the rapporteur's desk: No, no, that's not true. But that's not true. It's really not true, Mark, it's not.]] I didn't say that we had the support of the Treasury. Period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u23	So, at this point, I have already concluded the debate, if that is the end of the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u24	I have presented this in the news report, and I am ready to take you through the 986 vote on the Houses of the Press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u25	So we will now move on to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to brief us on the voting procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u26	Thus, following the resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, this voting procedure was recommended. First, we will vote on legislative technical adaptations under Section 95 para. 2, this is Mrs Valachová's proposal for a change of effectiveness......Válková, I'm sorry, I'm very sorry, Mrs Válková's colleague since 1. 4. 2021. [[A voice from the diaper: Wars.]] [[Sounds like a gong.]] We would then vote on the proposal under letter E, which is Mr Grospič's proposal. Then I will present them in detail in the vote, I guess I don't have to now, so it doesn't sound unnecessary twice. Subsequently, the proposal under letter B is a proposal from a group of Members, Members of the Výborný, Kohoutek, Chvojka and Feri. We will then vote on the amendment under letter D, with a separate vote, or it will depend on how the vote will take place in the letter B, this is the proposal of Members: Valachová, Válková, Nacher. We would then vote on the proposals under A1, A2, which are legislative technical amendments from the resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Seventhly, we will continue with proposal C2, this is colleague Kolařík, the pure local jurisdiction of the executors. Subsequently, proposal C1, the obligation to publish, so-called open data by the Executive Chamber, and subsequently the draft law as a whole. Please let this procedure be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u27	Thank you. So it's a procedure prepared by the guarantee committee. So if no one has any other proposals, then I am opening the vote. I'm asking who for the proposed procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 319, registered 100, for proposal 93, against no one. The procedure was therefore approved. I therefore ask the rapporteur to accompany us gradually with individual proposals, to briefly summarize them and to give them the opinion of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u28	Thank you. So let's get started. First, we vote on proposals for legislative technical amendments pursuant to § 95 para. 2 Rules of Procedure - change of effectiveness, as presented by Mrs Válková, from 1. 4. 2021.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u29	Thank you. So that's a technical modification proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u30	The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u31	I do not know if an opinion can exist if the proposal has been tabled only now. But...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u32	This is part of the resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, where it is recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u33	Okay. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this adjustment. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 320, 99 Members and Members registered, for 96, against no one. The motion was accepted. Thank you. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u34	We will continue to vote on Mr Grospič's amendment under the letter E. It is a proposal which increases the protected amount to four times the minimum of life. The original proposal is tripled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u35	Thank you. I started... Sorry. Committee opinion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u36	The opinion of the Committee has not been adopted. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u37	Thank you. I call the vote confusing. The plaintiff's opinion? [[Neutral.]] Thank you. I am therefore reopening this vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 322 99 Members and Members are registered, for 33, against 14. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u38	We will also vote on the amendment under letter B by Members of the Výborný, Kohoutek, Chvojka and Feri, which simplifies the creation of the protected account, simplified payment, maintenance protection and other income received, as well as preventing misuse of the protected account.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u39	Thank you. I checked you out on request. Please log in with your cards again. I'd like an opinion, please. [[The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee has not been adopted.]] Thank you. The plaintiff's opinion? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against proposal B? Thank you. In the vote No 323, 97 Members and Members are registered, for 27, against 2. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u40	Furthermore, we can vote on proposals D from one to eleven.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u41	Yes. D-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u42	D one one to D one eleven Members of Valacho, War and Nacher. It is the protection of maintenance against careless children under the Act on State Social Support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u43	Thank you. Opinion, please. [[The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Committee is a recommendation.]] Thank you. The plaintiff's opinion? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I've begun voting number 324. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. There are 99 Members and Members registered in the 324 vote, for 99, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u44	Thank you. Next, we will vote on the proposal from the same group of Members - Valachová, Válková, Nacher - under D2. It is a proposal that regulates the payment of a protected account, which means that the sentence "the monetary institution does not have the right to pay for the establishment and maintenance of a protected account" is added. It is a technical adjustment based on the requirements of the Czech National Bank and the banking sector.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u45	Thank you. Opinion, please. [[- Agreed. Rapporteur: The Constitutional Legal Committee has recommended this.]] Thank you. I've initiated a vote of 325. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 325 98 Members and Members are registered, for 97, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u46	We will now vote on legislative technical amendments together with one vote under A1, A2. These are proposals which result from the resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, i.e. an opinion recommending them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u47	Thank you. The plaintiff's opinion? [[For what?]] Committee proposals. [[I agree, yes.]] Thank you. I've started voting 326. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 326 98 Members and Members are registered, for 97, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u48	We will now vote on the proposal under the letter C2 of Mr Lukáš Kolářík on the implementation of the pure local jurisdiction of executors, regional, in the order of execution and in the OSŘ.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u49	Thank you. Opinion, please. [[The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.]] Thank you. The plaintiff's opinion? [[Neutral.]] Thank you. I've started voting 327. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 327 98 Members and Members are registered, for 22, against 19. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u50	The last of the amendments we have here is under C1. It is again an amendment to Mr Lukáš Kolářík's fellow Members, namely the definition of so-called open data, i.e. the open data required to be published by the executive chamber. The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u51	Thank you. The plaintiff's opinion? [[Neutral.]] Thank you. I started voting number 328. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 328 is 99 Members and Members, for 43, against 16. The motion was not accepted. That should be all the suggestions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u52	Yes, Mr Vice-President, that's right. And I would ask you to vote on the bill as a whole, as amended by the amendments adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u53	Yes. We will therefore proceed to this proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members Kateřina Valachová and Patrik Nacher to issue a law amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial executioners and enforcement activities, as amended, and Act No. 119/2001 Coll., laying down rules for cases of simultaneous enforcement of decisions, as amended, pursuant to House press 986, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies.' [[Conditions of execution]] I'll ask the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u54	I can't tell you that, because he's... No, it's a recommendation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We have there: draft law as a whole - recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u55	Thank you. [[A commotion in the hall.]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The number 329 votes 99 Members and Members, for 87, against 1. The motion was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I apologize for any shortcomings in the call. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the appellant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u56	I thank my colleagues and colleagues for the introduction of protected accounts and, of course, the rapporteur for his work. I don't think that Friday the 13th came true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u57	Thank you. Let's not praise the day before tonight. There are other prints. So we now have point 395. Mr. President to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u58	I would like to add to the vote that I have stated that I voted in favour, while abstaining. I do not question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-11-13-ps2017-062-10-004-369.u59	In the last vote, I presume. [[Yes.]] Okay. So now to the point
