ParlaMint-CZ_2020-10-27-ps2017-063-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 63rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. Today's birthday is celebrated by Mr Řehounek and Mrs Kozlová celebrating an important jubilee in life. Congratulations. [[Let's hear it.]] Furthermore, in order to record our participation, I will first check you all out and please log in with your identification cards, or report to me who votes with the replacement card. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 62 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Thursday 22 October of this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Jana Černochová and Mr František Kopřiva. Does anyone else have a suggestion? If that is not the case, I have already called my colleagues to the O.R. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of identifying these verifiers. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 1 of this meeting 103 Members and Members are registered, for 100, against no one. I note that we have appointed members of František Kopřiva and Jana Černochová, as verifiers of the 63rd meeting. I am saying that the following Members have asked to apologise for their absence by the beginning of this meeting: President Vondráček, on health grounds, Mr Běhounek, on the basis of the agreement of the Members' Clubs, Mrs Blažková, without a reason, Mr Černý for health reasons, Mr Čižinský between 15 and 16 hours for health reasons, Mr Faltýnek for family reasons, Mr Feri between 15 and 16.30 for work reasons, Mr Grebeníček for health reasons, Mrs Hyťhová for health reasons. Mr Jáč without giving reasons, Mrs Kalátová, for family reasons, Mr Klaus for health reasons, Mrs Kozlová for health reasons, Mrs Krutáková for health reasons, Mrs Majerová Zahradníková under the agreement of Members' clubs, Mrs Matušovská for health reasons, Mr Mihola for health reasons, Mrs Oborná for health reasons, Mr Okleštěk for health reasons, Mr Ondráček for health reasons, Mr Vácha for health reasonsPodal Mr Požezný for health reasons, Mr Rais for work reasons, Mr Ratiborský for health reasons, Mr Schwarzenberg for health reasons, Mr Šlechtová for health reasons, Mr Pojezný for health reasons, Mr Valenta for health reasons, Mr Venhoda within 19 hours for work reasons, Mr Votava for health reasons, Mr Babiš for health reasons... Pardon. And the members of the government apologized for the following: Mr Andrej Babiš, Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček, for health reasons, Minister Maláčová, within 16 hours for work reasons, Minister Plaga for work reasons, Minister Prymula within 17 hours for work reasons and Minister Toman for health reasons. We will now proceed to discuss the 63rd meeting, whose proposal was made at the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act was decided by the House only on the proposal provided for in the application. No change or addition can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the programme. So at this point, only priority rights can be exercised. Mrs Černochová has reported to me, but that's until the next meeting. So now, if no one has a proposal or wants to get on the agenda, I'm gonna... [[A Member of the Coloversity is reporting.]] Ambassador, so do you, I presume, all the way to the 62nd meeting. Thank you. So now I've called my colleagues to the O.R. I ask for peace and we will vote on the draft programme as presented on the invitation. So I'm gonna start voting number two. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 2, 126 Members and Members are enrolled, for 114, against 2. The motion was accepted. I'm stating that the agenda for the meeting has been approved. And now we're going to proceed to the one point of the show that is
