ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u1	162. Proposal by Members Jana Černochová, Andrej Babiš, Jan Hamáček, Petr Fiala and others for the issue of constitutional law amending constitutional law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended Constitutional Laws /House print 557/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as House Press 557/1. I prosit that the proposal put forward in favour of Mrs Jana Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u2	Thank you, Mr President, nice morning, ladies and gentlemen. I come before you for the second time with the proposal for an amendment to the Constitution of the Czech Republic concerning Article 43. For the first time, it was in 2016 and both expert and political debates confirmed that the change in the security environment really requires an amendment to the article in question in our Constitution, in particular the area of the transmission of forces. I am glad that dozens of you have supported my proposal across the political spectrum, and then the government has given a recommendation opinion. This clearly proves that this is not a whim or an unthinkable step, but something that will be due to the security of this country and its citizens. I want to assure you that the proposal is fully consistent with our constitutional order and international law. First, a few words about the history of the article. The original article 43 in paragraph 2 referred to the fact that - now I quote: "You can only send armed forces outside the Czech Republic with the consent of both chambers." In 2000, there was an amendment that responded, among other things, to the entry of the Czech Republic into NATO and which significantly extended the article from two paragraphs to six. It defined the procedure for transmitting the armed forces of the Czech Republic and extended the procedure for receiving foreign forces and their transits and flights. At the same time, paragraph 4 lays down strict conditions under which the government may send armed forces for 60 days without Parliament's consent. The previous amendments, like those currently proposed, are the result of changes in the safety environment and the need to respond to them. They show well the development of defense and security thinking since the early 1990s, when countries collapsed, terrorism, regional proliferation of instability, migration, but also the need to deter, were not perceived as more fundamental threats or phenomena. So what do we propose? Following discussions and analyses of possibilities carried out in cooperation with lawyers, security experts and soldiers, an option for simplifying the existing provisions of Article 43 has been chosen. First of all, the fourth paragraph will remove the conditions which limited the government to 60 days in the broadcasting of the armed forces. So the government could now send forces abroad at its discretion, but there remains an obligation to inform Parliament, which can reverse this decision. And what are the advantages for this change? According to the current regulation, it is not possible to send military units to rescue hostages held abroad without the prior consent of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Since such an action must be undercover and there is a danger of delay, its implementation is difficult to imagine. Representatives of the Czech Republic have repeatedly committed to our participation in the power of a very rapid reaction. These units shall be capable of leaving in the order of tens of hours as required, which does not allow the necessary approval process either. And actually, when we approved the last mandate, we left a little bit of a blank check. In the event of approval of the amendment, the Government will be able to send troops into operations of the European Union or the United Nations without delay, thereby contributing to the rapid resolution of the crisis situations of military and non-military nature, e.g. preventing the collapse of a state in a Europe of close regions, which could cause instability in the region, cause migration waves into Europe, etc. Another change contained in the proposal is that the government will be able to decide on the flights and transits of the armed forces of foreign states in bulk and on the way in which these movements are authorised. The practice has worked similarly so far, but unfortunately the text of the Constitution does not answer it. According to him, the government has an obligation to inform Parliament of these decisions, which may abolish them, but since there are hundreds or thousands of flights and transits, it cannot do so for each individual, as the text of the Constitution implies, and informs Parliament's chambers en bloc of them. It is therefore a reconciliation of the Constitution with practice, because the plural is not really there, there is a single number. The important fact is that the audit role of Parliament, namely both our chambers, is maintained, because the government must always inform it without undue delay and any chamber may cancel the decision by an absolute majority of all the members of the government. As part of the political, professional and lay debate, there are several reservations about the proposed amendment, so I would also like to say something about them. Maybe it'll stop one of my colleagues from performing. I won't, but in any case, I will inform those of you who may not have done so as I or some of your colleagues in the Defence Committee. [[9.50 hours]] So, first of all, it was a concern that the government should not take advantage of the free hand that it would receive by removing the conditions for broadcasting forces for 60 days. Firstly, it is hard to assume that it would be possible to plan and carry out a larger military operation abroad within 60 days. Secondly, the government can promise to send Czech soldiers if needed by NATO, the European Union or the United Nations and, thanks to the 60-day window, it can send research teams into the area of interest, for example, but it will have to inform Parliament and request its approval for greater deployment. Thirdly, the government may choose a smaller-scale operation that can be handled within 60 days, but it must again go to Parliament for approval sooner than later. Fourthly, it cannot be assumed that a government that exists with the confidence of the House would decide to commit political suicide and undertake a military operation abroad without prior political consultation and support. Another concern I have read somewhere is that, for example, a hostage rescue action without the consent of the state where it would occur will be a violation of international law or even aggression. According to the constitutional lawyer, Dr. Jan Kudrna, referring to professional literature, international public law, for example, does not consider the legal use of force to protect its own citizens in the territory of a foreign state without his consent. End of quote. This means that if such a situation were to occur, it would not be a violation of international law, in addition it was possible to record cases where the State in which the kidnapping took place gave the home country of the abducted citizens the freedom to carry out the operation, because the persons concerned were in the hands of a criminal organisation and the State itself did not have the necessary capacity to free themselves. The third and main concern I have read is that the government will be able to exploit its powers and legally invite foreign soldiers to the Czech Republic with some unfair intentions. Again, it can be pointed out that if the government had not secured political support for something like this, it would have committed political suicide, and that there is still a 60-day limitation, as well as the possibility of repealing decisions by an absolute majority of one of Parliament's chambers. Of course, there may be a government that decides to go outside of constitutionality. But it can do that today, and even better, and more self-defense legislation is not able to prevent evil from happening if someone decides not to respect the rules. I therefore ask you to support the proposed amendment, which, and I believe that it is in favour of the security of this state and its citizens, has the support of the Prime Minister, has the support of the Deputy Prime Minister, has the support of the Ministry of Defence, and I think that around sixty of you who were just present in the hall when I was collecting signatures under this proposal, and in particular has the positive position of the government. I propose this standard with my colleagues, although I, as a representative of the plaintiffs who stand before you here, am an opposition Member and the current government is not my government, but it is the government of the Czech Republic, and I always try in politics not to play which of us has what kind of party shirt, but to think about the future not only of the Czech Republic, but also of those security issues in the future, so that they are really in the interests of all of us across the political spectrum. And once there's one in the government, there'll be another in it, but every time that provision may be needed by that government. Let's give her the chance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u3	Thank you. I will now ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Dominik Feri, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the government present, it is always a pleasure for the rapporteur to have a careful plaintiff who will mention everything in a sufficient manner. Indeed, this proposal is being set out in three broad guidelines, and it regulates three basic areas. The first is the power of the government to broadcast the armed forces. The Constitutionalist was somewhat kavouistic and repaired it, let's just say, for the purposes of practice it turned out to be clumsy, inadequate. The next part concerns the regulation of crossings and crossings and the last part of the parliamentary control of the government's activities. This proposal is widely consensual and the Government has given its consent to this draft constitutional law without comment. The proposed guarantee committee is a constitutional-legal committee. As rapporteur, I still give the permanent Constitutional Commission to consider the commandments, it is a good practice here in constitutional law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which Vice-President Filip has signed up with priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u6	Thank you. Mr President, members of the Government, Madames and gentlemen, the rapporteur is right that this is a well-prepared proposal. Even the appellant, or the appellants' representative, is right that this is only a second amendment to the Constitution, Article 43. I think she named the 2000 enlargement right. But it has completely avoided what is the fundamental problem of this problem, which means moving the principle of parliamentary democracy to democracy in quotes executive, because the expulsion of Parliament is obvious there. The appellant, or the appellants' representatives, has completely omitted how Parliament's procedure is adjusted at this time in a situation where there is a threat to the security of the state. But she absolutely avoided it. Because that is the point of excluding Parliament from decision-making. And then do what you want in the next 60 days. Who's calling a state of emergency, a state of war? It's the government. And the moment she doesn't announce him, she's got her hands free without caring. Indeed, Parliament may not be eliminated and the immediate decisions of the Chamber of Deputies can be reached. So let us not say that this is so necessary, because Parliament will meet slowly. It's just not true. And the secrecy, the censorship of silence about the article that governs it in the Rules of Procedure, really bothers me. But it really does! So to remind you, I will not quote Article 43 of the Constitution, but I will suffice for the change in the character of the Czech Republic from parliamentary democracy to a sort of executive democracy, I quote a valid Section 109m of our Act on Rules of Procedure: "If the House is submitted a proposal to declare a state of war, to declare a state of threat, to express my consent to the extension of the emergency period, to abolish the emergency situation before the expiry of the period for which it was declared, to give consent to the sending of the armed forces of the Czech Republic outside the territory of the Czech Republic or to the stay of the armed forces of other states in the territory of the Czech Republic, or to decide on the participation of the Czech Republic in defence systems of international organizations, to which the Czech Republic is a member, at the time of state or war conditions, it will decide in a short hearing." [[10.00 hours]] And now I'm gonna tell you what's going on. First, Section 51 on the days of the proceedings shall be excluded. This means that the assembly of the Chamber of Deputies can be done by the President or by the Vice-President at the time he is asked to do so without delay. Without delay. Even § 53 on the meeting hours is eliminated. So they don't pay from 9 to 21. It doesn't. It doesn't mean we're acting Tuesday through Friday that Monday is parliamentary days. It can take place from Monday to Sunday, at any hour of the day and night. That's right. Even the fact that there can't be an interpellation is excluded. Unable to move points. So if anyone wants to stop it, the government's proposal, they can't do that. And I have no doubt that those who are satisfied that this decision will not be a decision of Parliament, but that it will change the nature of the Republic, of course, which is good for some. And as one beautiful Czech fairy tale says, when these kings are asked to do something about the war, their advisors take off their civilian clothes, take off their general uniforms and decide about the war. This is the point of the bill. Eliminate Parliament from decision-making and put it before a done cause. It's not about time. This is not a matter that we could not decide, but it is a matter for this Parliament or any Parliament to be excluded from decision-making after the elections. And the fact that you did not mention it in the explanatory memorandum, that the rapporteur did not say anything about it, only confirms that you want to change parliamentary democracy. And I cannot fundamentally agree with that! You haven't dealt with that, the proposal doesn't contain it, and you haven't mentioned it in the negotiations. Don't be mad at me, it's disgusting to treat this House! I cannot agree with such a proposal to amend the Constitution, nor will I ever be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u7	Thank you. Next up, a Member of the Vích is enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u8	Good morning. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to express the opinion of the SPD on this matter. In our view, the proposed amendment to the Constitution is currently not necessary. We believe that today we can send our troops to 60 days abroad with restrictions on obligations arising from international treaties, namely rescue and peace operations in the context of natural disasters and environmental accidents. The proposed Constitution, as it has been said here and as described, would, in our view, create conditions and opportunities to bring the Czech Republic into a war conflict, and that is unacceptable for us. I would like to say that the amendment to Article 43 of the Constitution, as proposed, would allow the Government of the Czech Republic to essentially send troops for any reason and anywhere. Again, this is unacceptable for us, including the proposal to extend the time for discussion in the Parliament of the Czech Republic. In addition, perhaps later, it may prove to be some kind of provocation. So to argue the possible rescue of Czech citizens in captivity, I would like to say that, in our view, the situation that the constitutional amendment deals with can be dealt with in another way, through specialised services of the security forces, and not to use the army of the Czech Republic for this purpose. So just to conclude, not categorical. The SPD will not support this proposal, amending Article 43 of the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u9	Thank you. With priority rights, President Kalousek for the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, President Filip sees in this proposal the fundamental downheaval of parliamentary democracy. I don't think so. Only some powers are exercised by the government, some powers are exercised by the House. The fact that we move this competence to a government based on elections and based on the trust of the Chamber of Deputies does not seem to me more like a downside to parliamentary democracy, rather a clarification of the current system. Let's take it to practice. The government is ruling us with the support of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. At the moment the government wants to fulfil our allied obligations and brings a proposal to the House to deploy our troops, those who hold this government in power all the time will wash their hands and assume that the responsible opposition will support the government in this case. And then the communists walk and say, "This is against our will, and we are not responsible for it." This was supported by opposition to the government. If such a change occurs, it will be much more clear and indeed also the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia's parliamentary club will have a much greater impact on such a decision, because of course nothing can prevent them from saying to the government: If you send those troops somewhere, we will immediately deny you confidence and put a motion for a vote of distrust in the Chamber of Deputies. Then the government must decide what is stronger for them at the moment. So we here practically for this House, but also for all other Houses, which would be constructed similarly, give much greater parliamentary powers to MPs who are ready to support the government, but on the issue of sending our troops, they will wash the year and leave it to the opposition. Oh, no. That's not fair. And I think that by approving this proposal for parliamentary democracy, it will not be relegated, but it will be quite clear who is responsible for the relevant decisions. That responsibility will be borne by the government and those Members who support the government. And that's fair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u11	Thank you. Mr Grospič is also enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u12	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members of the Government, I see the fact that, as has actually been said here by the petitioner, this is not a new proposal. It has been spoken of many times in earlier parliamentary periods, and during that seventh parliamentary term, this proposal was actually submitted under the press of nine hundred and fifty-six to the Chamber of Deputies. And at that time his authors were Jana Černochová from the Civil Democratic Party, Mr Ivo Gabal from KDU-ČSL, Jan Hamáček from Social Democracy, David Kádner from the Úsvit movement, Martin Stropnický from the ANO movement and Marek Ženíšek from the TOP 09. This corresponds essentially to the distribution of political forces and contemporary translators also from a variety of political forces. I understand that at this moment the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia will be about one of the few political parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies and even in the Parliament of the Czech Republic, which will have great reservations about the proposed bill. [[10.10 hours]] But I'd like to follow up on what's already been said here. The amendment is very innocent, pragmatic and says: Let us give the Government the power to broadcast armed forces of the Czech Republic abroad in certain situations, at certain moments, without immediately calling the Chamber of Deputies for a longer period of 60 days. But then there are these other laws, such as the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the Constitution itself, which say otherwise. And it can actually happen that the posting of troops abroad for any purpose, because the diction and the listing is quite broad, as set out in the Constitution, can only be done under the approval of the government. The House's consent will not be available at the moment, it will be postponed in various ways in this House and will actually be done on the basis of executive power. And we need to ask ourselves whether, therefore, we remain a Republic of Parliamentary, semi- pastoral with the presidential system, or a Republic which also exists in a world where a certain share of power, and that decisive share of power, has power in the person of the Prime Minister, and that is only sporadically in cases where it asks for trust or, for example, for a state budget, it has to compete for the House's trust as such as its whole. This question is extremely delicate and I do not deny that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia has a major problem with any transmission of our troops and armed forces without the mandate of the UN Security Council abroad, that we also have a problem with the so-called. missions that take place within our membership of the North Atlantic Alliance, and the world around us shows that any engagement of foreign armed foreign forces anywhere in the world is always a delicate matter, and every pressure triggers pressure, and it is not always in the interests and security of the Czech Republic. So the government can make full decisions without respecting the interests of the Czech Republic. I understand that both the Ministry of Defence and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš have given their consent, which will open up if the law is passed, a broad scope and will be able anywhere in the European Union to negotiate with allies, the United States of America and any other states to promise essentially anything that they believe will pass through the government. Parliament's approval will be subsequent. In this situation, I would really warn against reaching into the Constitution of the Czech Republic this way. I think that even the current diction of Article 43 without amending paragraph 4, without amending paragraph 5 and paragraph 6 allows the Government to respond to various security risks abroad and there is no need for this obligation to be removed from the mercy of the Parliament of the Czech Republic for a good reason. I think it is not even correct to state that, in principle, there is political support for change across the political spectrum and that this support is based on a technical debate which shows that there is a reason for change, because the provisions in question do not fully satisfy the current security situation, since they are based primarily on practice and threats of the 1990s, and finally on public statements by our representatives. Consider the current situation in Iraq, take the current situation in Afghanistan, and take the current situation in Mali. Neither of these reasons is the reason why the government should decide and drag the Czech Republic into these war adventures. I would take the liberty of proposing for myself the rejection of the proposed bill for the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. If it doesn't pass, return the petitioner to the recast. And if this does not pass, at least 20 days to discuss in this Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u13	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr Kobza. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to raise two factual objections to the bill. First, in the case of rescue, I would say the violent rescue of our citizens kidnapped somewhere in a complicated area with an appeal to international law seems at least unqualified to me, because it completely negates and does not take into account, first, the local laws that apply there, and, in the case of large tribal areas, it does not take into account tribal practices and tribal laws. I think this law is useless. I agree he's been treated enough. And if we want to do something to save our citizens, who travel in their, say, naivety to areas where a reasonable person does not go, as the case of the two girls kidnapped from Baluchistan shows, and in a large tribal area comparable to the area of the Czech Republic, violent rescue is not considered. On the contrary, I think that it is very important to support or strengthen the role of diplomacy there, because only diplomatic solutions based on local conditions are taken into account there, based on local laws and, above all, on the possibility of dealing with local chiefs who are far more easily aware of where they are and how they can be dealt with. So, on the contrary, I would like to strengthen the role of diplomacy. [[Time warning]] Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u15	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr. Růžička.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my colleagues at the ODS for putting this bill in place and for getting on the agenda for this meeting. We had a long debate about this law on the Defence Committee. We have dealt with a number of lawyers, we have dealt with constitutional lawyers, so that this proposal is completely comfortable and to suit both the Ministry of Defence and the political representation here in the House. And I think the proposal that we are discussing right now is very balanced. The Ministry of Defence, after all the Army of the Czech Republic, has been impatiently waiting for this law for several years. I wouldn't start discussing how to tactically liberate someone and whether it's a violation of that or that. You know, some people or some parties here in the House are talking about fighting terrorism, what we should do as a government, what we do little, what we do wrong. People get a massage, then they get to the track, they cut down a few trees, and they think the fight against terrorism is amazing. And now that they can help at least a little bit, because everyone who makes this law knows why they're submitting it, they're questioning it here. The fact that the Communist Party is questioning that, well, that's her folklore. But I'm quite sorry about the SPD, because as Tomio Okamura said, Colonel Vích was in the structures and he knows how it works. So it would be good if the other members of the SPD reported on how it really is, and they didn't say it wasn't real here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u17	Thank you. A point of fact, Vice-President Filip. I'm registering an application with priority rights, President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just really. If we're presenting something here, I reserve it for someone to consider folklore. I am here to argue with the Constitution and to argue that I am accusing the change you are bringing here in the nature of the Czech Republic. Here once was a quick amendment to the Constitution with the direct election of the President. And then those who voted in favour suddenly propose indirect. Well, it's not folklore. It's about whether this republic should go from one management system to another. And I believe that the parliamentary system is better than executive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u19	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr Vích.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to respond to my colleague Růžička's comment. I would like to assure him that our Members are really informed by me about how this works in NATO structures, so you can be at peace, Mr Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u21	Thank you. With priority rights, President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u22	Thank you for the floor. I also want to make a statement through Mr President on Mr Růžička. You know, you're saying that we're telling the truth that lawyers were sitting on it, that lawyers didn't find anything wrong with it. But we don't really care what the lawyers say. For us, another fact is important - that something worked here, was part of the Constitution, and that the limit of when to become a war - to war - is so incredibly thin, and it doesn't matter if it's Babišův's government or any other that comes after it, the border is so incredibly thin that we don't take responsibility for it. And we want it not to be the responsibility of the government itself, so that it is the responsibility of at least the entire Chamber of Deputies. That's important, I think. To lobby one person, two or three is not such a problem, and the international pressures are so enormous, so huge, that I think that some government might still be glad to say that Parliament of the Czech Republic has to decide about this and not the government. I propose for the SPD, I make a procedural motion to dismiss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u23	Yes, Mr Grospič has already tabled the proposal, so you are joining this proposal. Next for the debate is Mr Lipavský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u24	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly refer to the position of the pirate club on this proposal to the MP. We have approached him with an open mind, we have studied it thoroughly, and we see that this bill addresses two issues. One is the question in Article 43 in paragraph 4 and the other are the two points that deal with crossings, crossings. And with the adjustment of the crossings, the crossings, we agree. We agree with this because it sort of straightens up the current practice and it shows up and we see that it is not a problem in the long run. But when we were thinking about what it would actually mean to cross out the reasons set out in the Constitution today, on the basis of which the government can send troops abroad for 60 days by itself today, it did not convince us. The point is that we will not now vote against the law, that is, we will not vote for rejection and so on, but we will want to translate the amendments, which will in some way extend the conditions, but will not give the government a blank check. And then we'll see what the House decides at the third reading. The reasons for this are, in fact, several reasons are mentioned in the explanatory report, and the main reason is terrorism, as other reasons are migration, and then Very High Readiness Joint Task Forces is argued there, that is, these are the Forces of NATO's rapid response. If I had to take this step by step, I must admit, or we acknowledge that according to today's legal order, the Czech Republic cannot send a commando of this type to carry out the operation, a military operation. And that's where we find some relevance. I would like to say that we already have troops deployed in Afghanistan today, in Mali, in the Baltics, we had fighters in Iceland, and in a situation where, on the basis of a long term mandate, we have an army deployed, it is practically very simple, if the article of the Constitution were to apply in that modified form, to send a few more soldiers there within a period of 60 days, because they already have all the facilities there, to participate in some operation for which the mandate was not approved, such as combat operations, and then to withdraw them again. It will be quite all right, because it will be in those 60 days, and Parliament will be told back that some combat operations have taken place, but they will actually be carried out because there has been, say, a peace or assistance mission, as it is today in Afghanistan, for example, an assistance mission. So exposing that blank check to me seems really, really dangerous. Another argument was, in the explanatory memorandum, based on migration, but when we look at how migration was addressed in that crisis year 2015, it was done through police cooperation. I don't know that there's an army to protect borders somewhere, because the problem was police-type security, just border security, even though they were building different barriers to the physical, physical security of those borders, because they're not really a military threat, and the scenario where an army would have to deploy itself is actually incredibly extreme, and the military is not primarily intended to address the migration crisis itself. And as far as NATO's high response forces are concerned, they are designed for a situation where there is a really fast military escalation, a situation, but then it is time for the constitutional law on security to come in, so the government can say excellently, there is an emergency, a state of emergency or a state of war - and at that moment those powers shift to the government. And it can, of course, react through the troops. To sum up, our position is this, we would really like to find the places that are painful, and let's say, there are some new reasons - and the fight against terrorism or, say, the rescue of the hostages - and I think that Mr Kobza, Mr Kobza, was a little like throwing away the rescue with regard to tribes and so on, just when the Czech citizens are somewhere and the Czech government is able to take care of their safety through the fact that we're sending a trained commando, and the Czech army has the skills, and let's be glad that it has them, so it's time for the government to have that instrument. And let's talk about that. I think I've summed up the pirát' position, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u25	Thank you. I have two factual points here. First, Mr. Mr. Svoboda, or it was just... the error slipped by the voting device. Mr Kobza. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond by your means to my previous speaker, Mr Lipavský. Perhaps it would be better if he didn't watch so much American action films, because otherwise he would know that carrying out an armed attack by an army on a foreign territory without the approval of the government, without the approval of local authorities is basically an invasion, is aggression. And, of course, at that point, it is no longer about our soldiers fighting to save our citizens, but they will fight, above all, the state power of the state to which they will attack in this form. So please nicely, let us stay on the real basis of international relations and on the real basis of what is actually possible to achieve, or it is not possible to achieve, because those American films really do not correspond to reality! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u27	Thank you, co-worker Kobza. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. But before I give the floor to my colleague Lipavský on another factual point, I note that there has been an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from Mr Milan Hnilička between 14.30 and 17.00 for work reasons. Now, therefore, Mr Jan Lipavskýý with a factual remark and then Mr Alexander Černý and then the Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, the Member estimated that I like to watch American action films sometimes. But you know well that in countries where the rule of law is highly problematic, typically Afghanistan, the government simply doesn't control half the territory or some part of the territory, and at that moment they say, so we agree, but do it with your own efforts. And that's when the government really doesn't have the tool. And I told you, that's where I find the relevance, and let's talk about it. So what you said is not a true argument.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Kobza, however, also wants to respond with his point of fact, so my colleague Černý will wait. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I don't want to delay it, I won't respond to any more comments, but that is what I mentioned in my opening post that in countries that are critical and where a normal person doesn't even travel as a tourist, not only national law applies, but also tribal law. And where the government ends with its power, there begins the power of local tribal chiefs and the power of local tribal armies and of course these armies are equally combatable, as well as well armed with heavy weapons, have armored transporters, have cannons, have rockets and have a highly motivated army, so it is a very difficult opponent and it really is not to be underestimated because we have experience from Yemen, we have experience from Afghanistan, we have experience even after all from the tribal territories of Pakistan, where the central government does not interfere with tribal affairs, and specifically Pakistan and Afghanistan, which actually contains the territory of Pashtunistan and Baluchistan, so these tribes really are so powerful and so distinctive that they determine their own tribal customs, and of course a stranger does not have a chance to survive there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Before I give the floor to Alexander Černý, another apology came from Prime Minister Andrej Babiš from 10.30 pm to the end of the day for work reasons. Now Mr. Alexander Černý, then Minister of Defense Lubomír Metnar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to repeat myself in some cases, but still a few observations on the issue under discussion. From the way this discussion is going on, it is evident that it is not quite that simple and that we are probably aware that we are talking about things quite important and important right now. It's not that you're gonna send out a super agent like James Bond or a couple of cops who have a mission, but we're talking about putting in a regular army. So we want to send troops that have a completely different status, a different mission and are usually trained for other tasks. And what we're talking about here in particular, that means liberating hostages or interfering at such critical moments, that would probably require sending out the real specialists, probably our specnas, that is, 601. groups or similarly prepared and trained people with everything, with the perfect equipment, equipment. And this is no longer a trifle, it is no fun, and those people are also able to achieve results that might prove to us not entirely desirable. Let me make a note of the missions. President Kalousek basically blamed us for holding the government in power, but when it comes to missions, we rely on opposition. It's a permanent phenomenon. That is nothing new, you are absolutely right, Mr President, that is it. And it doesn't matter if the government is being run by an YES representative at the moment, or if it's being run by a pirate or someone from ODS after the next election, it doesn't matter. Just as long as we're here, we'll always be cautious in relation to missions. But let me remind you of one little thing that might interest you. When we were sending out the first mission, we were talking for hours about what kind of people they were going to be, what kind of character they were going to be out there, and we were putting almost unisono at the time, and it was also consistent with the nature of those missions, the emphasis on it being humanitarian matters. In the first stages, medics, field hospitals, here and there were then broadcasting chemists, simply units or people who were really able to meet one of our criteria, so that the mission would have a humanitarian character as far as possible. So, of course, health professionals provided support not only to our soldiers but also to the local population, for example, and thereby increased only the credit of the Czech Republic and deserved that we are now in the world, regardless of being involved in missions, perceived and understood in a completely different way than representatives of other states, other armies. The fact that we always add that it must be part of sending information about what the local government says about it, if the state we want to send our troops to agrees with it. If the consent is not present, folks, then search for what it is. Try asking Iraq or Iran today what happened on January 3rd. That was under international law, what happened there? The headlines in all the major world newspapers began with: Will World War III be? Or will the conflict be used to unleash God knows what? And there it was, please, just one drone. It wasn't about sending in Special Forces. The moment we go into this practice, we risk others doing it. We encourage them to do so. We encourage them. Look, the Čech will adopt a legal regulation that entitles them to intervene whenever and wherever the Czech government considers it necessary, without the consent of both chambers, and can even do so without delay. And it doesn't have to be any hostages! We know very well what is happening in Africa today, we know how difficult the situation in the Sahel is. Basically, there are two missions that work there. One under the curate of Europe, the other under the curate of the Security Council, and now we're trying to send more people there. I firmly believe that when the Minister gives us proof of the government's position on the committee and justifies it, he will explain to us what mandate our soldiers will now operate there and what time and what they will do there etc. And I assume that it will really be the way it has always been, so far, that the three essential conditions will be met. [[10.40 hours]] Now, about what the proposal contains. My colleague, Lipavský, rightly pointed out here that these are the two major areas. I can only stress that we've been talking about flights for years. We all know that it is not well set, that crossings would require a special adjustment, that it is not a simple material. There are times when we're scared - not that we're causing it, but, for example, when there was speculation about who or what's actually driving on those planes, and now we suddenly realized: but, for God's sake, they in Ruzyne or some of our airports could actually land aircraft on which, for example, illegal prisoners were held on board, for whatever purpose, on any pretext. We've been here before. That's what we were dealing with. The reason was transit, usually, they just tanked here or stayed a little while, but they were here and they were in our territory, and we knew it. And we've been fogging and we've been dealing with... We didn't, we didn't, we had nothing to do with it. It's a matter of who owns the plane, and that doesn't concern us. And how do we approve fly-by reports here and so on, two years backwards, you know that too. So, yes, it is undoubtedly true that the adjustment of the flights is appropriate and that it would be good for us to keep things in order. But flying and sending troops, that's a hell of a difference. So if we want to try to fix this shortage in the future, let's do it. And my last point. You know, I am deeply convinced that although I am a member of the Defence Committee, the mission of all of us sitting here is to take care of security. Take care to ensure the safety of our citizens here, but also outside, of course, but not to make the tension worse in any way. So taking steps that - and I think that is the basic principle on which international relations and security should be built - are predictable. Just knowing that if someone wants to declare war on me, that they'll just do it in some way and that I'll know in advance yes, this neighbor, or this state wants to declare war on me, or they'll send some soldiers here sometime soon, and I'll deal with it somehow. Either I make a deal with them or I don't deal with them, and in that case, we fight back. And the predictableness has been almost in its diapers lately. It's like she's not. Which one of you is sure that Donald Trump is not going to do something similar in the near future that he did on January 3rd? And it can do it virtually anywhere in the world where it sees fit, because we know very well that the famous principles of international law that we all use when it suits us, those principles apply only when they are respected by the powers. And I have at this point - and you can convince me otherwise - I feel like the three main players on this field have agreed. I'll just do whatever I want, and you two won't talk to me about it. And we'll respect each other that way. When someone gets to their level, or thinks he's in that position to play with them, there'll be more. And we'll be delighted if the club expands. So please, let us do what we see fit to strengthen the defence of our people, our country, our territory, but always when taking any measures, let us think about not making the security situation worse. I firmly believe that this House will have enough self-esteem and reason not to take such an unreasonable step in voting on this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u33	I thank Mr Alexander Černý. I state the apology of Mr Ondřej Veselý from 12.15 to 13 hours for work reasons. The Minister of Defence, with a factual remark, will outrun colleague Josef Bělica, who has applied for a factual remark. And after the Minister of Defence, Vice-President Pikal came forward. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u34	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, colleagues, colleagues. In this context, I would just say what has already been said and sum up a little bit. A rather detailed discussion on the subject took place on the Defence Committee. After all, it is clear from the speech of the previous speakers that everyone is aware that there are shortcomings in the whole process. Today, a proposal is tabled to address these shortcomings. We realize that. I would very much like you to support this change and this proposal not only because it is across the political spectrum, but because it simply addresses the current problems. We have included within the allied forces of the unit of a very rapid reaction. These are very specific situations in which they should be used and under what circumstances. And as has already been done here today, there is clearly a defined responsibility, and it is up to the government to emerge from the elections, and it will always come out of the elections in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u35	I thank Mr Bělic. One more factual remark from Mr Pavel Růžička. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u36	I was wondering whether to respond to Mr Černý, but it just won't give me, I have to respond. What happened on January 3rd? Well, on January 3rd, I'd kill one of the biggest terrorists in the world. Just like I don't know what's going on. And why was he killed in Iraq? Because the United States has its own troops in Iraq, and it was much easier than finding this criminal in Iran. I don't know, I think it's completely understandable, it's quite clear. I have to be clear about this because I spent eight months in Iraq. Not as Mr Kobza says someone is watching action films. Maybe he's watching action movies. I've been there for eight months. And I was running around with that machine gun on my neck, Mr. Ambassador. And what you're saying totally insults me. And I have one more thing to say here. Mr Lipavský said it exactly here. He defined it exactly. And what he said here, I'd sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more point in fact, Mr Leo Luzar. I beg the peace of the House! You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u38	Thank you for the floor. My colleague, a previous speaker, provoked me to this factual reminder through you, so I will try to speak to him and explain to him the principles of international law that have been denied in Iraq. Mr colleague, can you imagine a situation where a European state, such as Germany, invites the President of Korea to peace or disarm or against the possibility of expanding nuclear weapons to visit? And the Američan in Germany have a base. And Donald Trump will declare the ultimate terrorist, which he has done, among other things, and he has talked about it, this representative and a rocket will explode from a drone at Frankfurt airport, kill this terrorist, and kill a few people around, random hosts who arrived. You call that international law? Is that what you want to fight for and say, is that okay? Just because it was in Iraq? And there's a shooting, there's a war, there's five more people dead, there's nothing going on. The Američan have a base there. That's none of our business. Is that what you call international law? As a soldier, this is how you treat it, that it doesn't matter, because that's where you fight? That's where it's possible, just because someone calls him a terrorist? Shame on you! Excuse me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And I have to say, I'm going to ask for more patience from both the Secretary of Defense and my colleague Pikal, because I have five factual points here at this point, so they have priority rights. So the first is colleague Pavel žáček, then Jiří Kobza, then Jana Černochová, Pavel Růžička, Stanislav Grospič. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u40	Thank you for the floor. I am surprisingly not going to evaluate the fact that since the emergence of its political party - since 1921, that means the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia, undermining parliamentary democracy, is exactly the party that has been teaching us here how to defend parliamentary democracy. That, of course, is completely absurd. But I would like to defend our specials, our special forces, to be compared with the words of my colleagues from the Communist Party to Specnaz, whether Russian or Soviet. These are the very units that, beyond any constitutional control, undermine other states, organize coups and do exactly the work that we have under constitutional control here. We already have it, we just want to adjust the technique so that we can defend Czech citizens abroad for example. So I certainly think this is offensive and it should not be heard from Members of the KSČM. Don't compare our specials with Russian Specnaz!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jiří Kobza, also with a factual remark. A colleague of mine, Černochová, will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond by means of you to the previous speaker, colleague Růžička. He may have missed the fact that General Sulejmání was a general of the legitimate armed forces of Iran. He wasn't a nameless terrorist, he wasn't a terrorist hidden somewhere in the mountains. He was there at the invitation. In my opinion, this is a completely unbiased political murder. If we accept this kind of policy, then we are abandoning the democratic principles on which our society is based. And that is completely unacceptable to us. Because if we allow out-of-court murder of a legitimate official of a foreign state, then, gentlemen, which one of us can say we're Democrats? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Jana Černochová, Pavel Růžička will prepare, then Stanislav Grospič and Josef Bělica. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u44	Thank you. I wanted to make a factual point in responding to my colleague Luzar's speech because he seems to have missed the essential fact that General Sulejmání was on the terrorist index, which means that no one here can question the fact that he was an active terrorist. And we're talking about some consequences here. In law, it's called causal nexus. But let's remember what preceded the killing of General Sulejmání. This was preceded by an unprecedented attack and violation of the Vienna Convention on the representative office in Baghdad, the United States representative office, where several persons were killed and seriously injured, thus allowing the United States of America, in accordance with international law, to take this as an attack on its country. And their attack is so legal and legitimate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u45	Now, Mr Pavel Růžička, with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u46	I would have responded to Mr Luzar. I have nothing to be ashamed of. I don't know why I should be ashamed of myself, unlike the communists. But, colleague, I'm talking about a goat, and you're talking about a wagon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u47	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Stanislav Grospič now. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I will not respond specifically to any of my previous speakers, but in general. I think the debate should go back to Rule 43 and what the plaintiffs propose. And here is the real interpretation of international law and international law standards, who has studied this material and is familiar with it, so he knows how these standards are formed, how these standards are born, and how they are also respected and ensured in an international context. If we take this step of trusting this power, as the plaintiffs say, exclusively to the government and conditionally under any circumstances only secondarily to the Chamber of Deputies, then it may actually happen that the government, albeit in a godly intention, can put the Czech Republic in the position of aggressor. And that has nothing to do with whether someone is a communist or a member of another political party. I don't think it belongs here at this point. I simply think that this amendment, which is tabled, is not happy that it will not contribute to the prestige of the Czech Republic, that it can potentially make the Czech Republic a state that will participate in some acts that are not in accordance with international law, not at all with international war law, and will put it on the level of the aggressor. But I don't want to paint the devil on the wall. I am inclined to maintain the current legislation that our Constitution has known, to work with it for 30 years, and it does not cause any particular problems, it does not endanger the security of the Czech Republic, as if it were if we had adopted the proposed regulation, where the risk of endangering the Czech Republic would have increased.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u49	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over. Before I give the floor to Mr Bělic, I am specifying Mr Baxa's apology. He apologizes for work reasons. Now, Mr Josef Bělica, Mr Leo Luzar will also be prepared with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u50	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I'm not entirely happy with where this discussion came from. I would take the liberty of responding to Mr. Luzar's factual remark. I'm very sorry. Ambassador, I don't think the lieutenant Růžička in reserve is ashamed of himself. There are more former officers of our army in reserve. They have nothing to be ashamed of for their service. I'm convinced of that. I don't know how many times you took an oath to this country, where you said, among other things, that you were ready to lay down your life for it. I wouldn't want to downplay these things. So I do not think that Mr Růžička is to be ashamed of anything in this context, and I respect him for that, as I do my colleague Vích, even though he represents a different political color than I do today. Come in. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that questioning the actions of our allies here exactly when - as Mrs Černochová rightly said here - an attack on a terrorist on the list is being made on the international list of terrorists, so I really do not want to comment on the comments of someone who is questioning the legitimacy of such a move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u51	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Leo Luzar and Mr Zlesák will prepare himself, also with a factual remark. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u52	It was said here that we probably didn't understand each other. But I was picked up from the chair by someone here under the impression of an attack on a terrorist, maybe justify the innocent victims around. He didn't just die the one supposed terrorist written somewhere on the list. That's where the host country soldiers died. It was an official visit, they weren't hiding anywhere, they weren't terrorists, they weren't on the list. And here comes a soldier and he says to me, "It's okay. Civilian casualties or military casualties, that's irrelevant, because that's where we fight. And they had bad luck standing right next door. That's what bothers me. The hypocrisy of the attitude. If this had happened with us, you could imagine what would have happened. When it happened there, minor casualties. That there's gonna be a school bombing, a hospital? Well, they were wrong, minor losses. That's what's gonna happen. We're gonna apologize. It's okay. It's outrageous hypocrisy. Aren't they the same people who live somewhere else and with us? They have less value in their lives? And we're sorry about this? Because we feel the need to send soldiers, our special forces, to work and defend. And who's gonna take on the innocent victims that are gonna be in our intervention? How do we approach this? And as for the terrorist list we're talking about, there's a lot of terrorist lists running around the world. Maybe I know of a Turkish terrorist list that includes organizations that we recognise as completely legal and helping us. So we're going to fight them, too, because it's a list? Or I suppose there are lists of terrorists like Iran, which may include representatives of our army, I don't know. Which terrorist list are we talking about? So we automatically accept that the list of terrorists in the United States is the right, ideal, and the only one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u53	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over. Mr Radek Zlesák, Mr Václav Klaus, Mr Jan Bartošek, Mr Jana Černochová. That is the order of factual remarks. I warned the Secretary of Defense and Vice-President Pikal that he had to wait. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u54	Thank you for the floor. Maybe I'd just actually react here. We're at first reading now. I'm following up on a very interesting debate with my colleagues from the Defence Committee. I think there's a lot of relevant opinions and information here, but given that we're at first reading, I'd ask that we let it go to the next reading. I'm sure we'll deal with this in the Defence Committee. We'll have some opinions on that. I think that this discussion should be part of the third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u55	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Václav Klaus, with a point of fact. Mr Bartošek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u56	I would have responded to all the previous speakers, and I would have put it back to the point. And here I believe, or do we believe that this law is about one thing: are we in favour of further escalation of the security situation in the world or are we not? This law prepares another escalation of the military situation, as it facilitates the transmission of troops, measures are taken before war and such things begin. It is a constitutional law, or we should, with great caution, consider these things that we are doing because they can be irreversible. And the other thing, as the Íránec are discussing. Certainly he was not a good man and so on, so no one seems to feel sorry for him, but on the other hand, let's imagine a Chinese list of terrorists with some Tibeťan, Ujguř, Tchajwanec - so imagine Taiwanese Tchajwanec to the airport in Ruzyn and some ballistic missile flying in and killing Tchajwanec, plus three of our cops and China making a statement that it was a terrorist, and done. Well, we're all going crazy here, we can't even stand to get to the speaker's desk and take terrible precautions. And it's the same situation that makes one power or the other. Well, it's just about the discussion about the permissions to murder strangers in a foreign country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u57	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jan Bartošek, my colleague Černochová will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. This law does not escalate anything, it merely allows the government to act quickly and on time if necessary. And I agree with both my colleague Růžička and my colleague Bělica. It is simply the security of the Czech Republic. I'm most concerned that the Communist Party members are preaching morale to us here, when during its 40-year reign, we boldly delivered the semtex to Libya, trained in Brdech by world terrorists, and suddenly the communists here are beating each other in the breasts of what peacemakers are like. Well, don't be mad at me. It's hard for me to believe. And what I want to say is that we support this proposal and we want it released until further reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u59	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mrs. Černochová, now with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I wanted to respond once again to Mr Luzar's fellow Member, because he certainly knows from the military the concept of collateral Damages. These are collateral damage, collateral damage, which unfortunately cost the lives of another person. I don't think, quite frankly, that those persons by the side of Sulejmání are angels. But it surprises me, my colleague, through the Vice-President, that you shed tears here over the deaths of these people and do not shed tears over the deaths of 176 passengers who will shoot down Iraq, I don't know, the liberation or what army has confessed to it. Don't you care?
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u61	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more point of fact, Leo Luzar. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u62	Thank you for the floor. But did I ever hear myself say that? As you have now, my colleague, by your means, Mr Vice-President, surprised me. Of course, I consider it a huge tragedy, a huge mistake that should never have happened, and I firmly believe that all those who have caused this will be severely punished because it should not have happened and this must not happen in wartime conflicts to die civilians. And I don't care if he's a civilian Íránec, Iráčan or Čech, I don't care. But what you have used, I do not consider it a fair argument, because it is not an argument at all, it is merely the introduction of this discussion somewhere else. And I repeat again - it only raised me from the chair, and I didn't want to take part in it, the expression of the person who was there in those missions, and just the civilian losses that are there, it considers something obvious, normal, because the noble goal was to kill a terrorist and the rest are simply necessary losses. And I think that's a bad attitude, and it's an inhuman approach. I'm sorry about him, maybe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u63	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more point in fact, Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u64	I think it's pointless to be convinced who we have the perception of the world. I think there have been clear words here to support the Member of the Col. Růžička, which I, too, appreciate very much, and who is really a person on the defence committee who has something to say about this subject. And he didn't say it the way a fellow Luzar here interprets it. Once again, you're selectively pulling individual sentences out of context. I mentioned the plane shot down and the account that you said how it was possible, even if someone shot or destroyed a terrorist, that the poor civilian victims around it took it along with him. And I say, how do poor civilian victims, even victims, where most of the 176 people were people who were Iranian nationalities, so how do they come up with that kind of behavior? You asked for a comparison, my colleague, through the Vice-President, alone and I had to respond to it this way. I also responded because I defended this practice of the United States of America with regard to international law, because if Američan didn't want to get into the same situation as they did in Benghazi, they had to react the way they did.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u65	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. But we do have one more factual comment from my colleague, Lubomír Volný. Before I give him my word, I'm stating that there is no excuse for Miroslav Kalousek between 14:30 and 19:00. In addition to my colleague Výborný, Minister Metnar, Vice-President Pikal and Lubomír Zaorálek is with priority rights, I repeat. These are logged in to a debate with priority rights. Now the factual comment of Lubomír Volný. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Through you to a colleague of the Němcová. I wouldn't... Black people, sorry, sorry, I keep confusing our warriors. How do you suppose the families of those people who were shot down by an American rocket in a transport plane after the soldiers of this destroyer were honored for this event? That's what I'd like to know. Unfortunately, yes, in war, these things happen, in war, unfortunately, yes, civilians die. However, apparently each of us heard a proverb about the expulsion of June by the devil. And I personally think that fighting terror and terrorists through terror and terrorists is a journey to hell, and I personally think that the world was a safer, quieter and more pleasant place to live before the so-called war on terrorism began. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u67	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Josef Bělica. Before the microphone reaches, I apologise to Mrs Věra Adámková between 12.15 and 13 hours. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I've already said in the previous performance that this will be the last, but it just can't be the last. Please, let's put the debate back on the subject, put it back where the debate belongs, to the substance. We're discussing a specific matter here. I mean, with Mrs Černochová - I guess no one can blame me for loving each other since the beginning of the parliamentary mandate, but on the other hand, it really bothers me if such unfair arguments and unfair and personal attacks are being used here. I'm sure the MP doesn't deserve it. As chairman of the Defence Committee, it works really well. So, Ambassador, please, it's Mrs Černochová, I'm very sorry about you. On the other hand, please, let's get back to the subject, let's talk about the substance of this legal document that we want to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u69	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact, and before I give the floor to the Minister of Defence, who is registered with priority law, I state first of all that there has been an apology by Mrs Helena Válková between 11 and 12 o'clock for work reasons and inform that this phone has been found in the State acts, completely improbable, so it is on the table here with me, at the President. [[shows]] Minister of Defence of the Government of the Czech Republic Lubomír Metnar has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to bring this proposal closer to the amendment of the article of the Constitution of the Czech Republic on the substance, to return it to the material form when this proposal of the amendment is intended to ensure a real simplification of the sending of soldiers into foreign missions. Just a little bit of history. The Government discussed this proposal on 26 August and adopted a favourable opinion on it. As Minister of Defence and Ministry of Defence, we support this proposal as well as from that historical point of view we consider it necessary and very necessary for an effective solution to situations that I will mention further. I will try to explain the need for this proposal on specific examples. This amendment will enable the Government to make an operational decision to send our troops into international operations, to send forces of rapid reaction to stabilization of collapsed states which do not have a government and which cannot consent to the operation, which is a condition of broadcasting on the basis of a government decision pursuant to the current version of Article 43. If the international community does not ensure the stabilization of a collapsed state, the consequences are serious, long-term, especially in the area of migration. Libya can be an example to us. In 2010, it was still a stable and rich country that hosted the EU-Africa summit. However, in the following year after Kaddáfí's overthrow, state structures collapsed and stabilisation with the help of international forces did not take place, and Libya is still in chaos and is unable to defend itself against mass migration from many African states, and the consequences are still being borne by Europe. As has already been said, but I will repeat the arguments again, the amendment will also allow the government to make an operationally flexible decision on the transmission of the armed forces in order to save our citizens, who have been in difficulty during their stay abroad and whose lives are in danger. It doesn't just have to be the cases that have been raised here, the citizens of the abducted by terrorists or criminal groups. They may also be citizens who are located in the territory of a country affected by natural disasters, industrial accidents or unrest. Of course, the evacuation of our citizens from abroad can ensure our military transport aircraft. However, these citizens must first get themselves to the airport from which the air evacuation will take place. Any movement across the territory of a state affected by disaster or unrest is very risky and can not always be relied on by local security forces. In such cases, it is desirable to send our soldiers to accompany and protect the evacuated citizens during the transfer to this airport and can safely evacuate them back to the Czech Republic. I also consider it necessary to emphasise that any decision by the Government to send our armed forces abroad will always be in accordance with international law. The amendment extends the power of the government even when deciding to accept foreign armed forces in our territory. As an example, I can mention the mentioned mass migration. If the Czech Republic were exposed to such migration, we would certainly welcome the immediate assistance of the armed forces of other states in managing its consequences. This could be, for example, the logistical support of our troops deployed to protect national borders. To conclude, I will share with you one personal example and experience. When I was an elementary school student, a classmate of mine was sitting next to me, who was the daughter of one of the many families who then built the cellulose and paper mills in Angola. Remember when they were kidnapped by UNITA and passed? She was sitting with me. We're calling the shots today. And there were a number of examples from that history to modern history. I was there. Try explaining it to your parents, relatives, what the state will do for them and how quickly it will do for them. That's my personal experience because she was sitting in the same desk with me. I would like to return to some of the comments - I would like to stress - it is not really about broadcasting against the will of the local government. But the DOD needs to deal with a situation where there is no government in the country and a state without government collapses and does not have these government structures. And I must really categorically reject that the Government of the Czech Republic would use the amendment of this article for actions that have been referred to so flamingly here in some cases. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u71	Thank you, Secretary of Defense Lubomír Metnar. I have two factual points, then the priority right of Minister Zaorálek, because my colleague Pikal resigned from his right of priority and will be placed as a colleague of the Výborný. [[Minister Zaorálek is coming to the speaker's desk.]] Minister, you haven't got the floor yet, because there are two factual points, Jan Lipavský and Stanislav Grospič. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u72	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I am glad for the examples set by the Minister, because this is something I called for in my speech. As far as Libya is concerned, I don't know if this is an entirely appropriate example of a state without a government, because maybe there are even three governments. So we have a choice. But I understand that if we're talking about that paragraph a) fulfilling the obligations of international treaties on common defence against assault and the like, that may be what you referred to as needing the approval of that government, which in some situations, when there is a short time, of course, can be a problem to negotiate. The disaster, which is covered in that paragraph (c) Participation in rescue work in natural disasters, industrial or environmental accidents. Well, I'd say that's a disaster. And then there's the accompanying scenario, the evacuation, and that's something I've been talking about, when it's exceptionally necessary to intervene. But the way it's designed today, it's just a lot wider, and the scripts don't sound here. And, of course, we could think of different situations here, when an army will somehow be deployed in its full force even in those 60 days, and Parliament will only look at it and will not be able to do anything about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u73	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Stanislav Grospič's factual remark and then the application with priority rights of the Minister of Culture. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u74	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would dare to respond here by your means to the defence minister's speech, because I really think with Libye that he has shown the true nature and true meaning of the proposed amendment to the Constitution, and what it is really about. The unrest and civil war in Libya began when we took the real riots, January 13, 2011. On the fifth March of the same year 2011, the Temporary National Transitional Council, referred to as the National Council, was established there. Today, several groups compete there, maybe three, four, two are decisive. The first to recognize the National Council was France, and it immediately provoked the disapproval of Italy, which regarded Libya as its domain, its former colony and its sphere of interest in influence. So let us not take any illusions that today's states, as well as some European Union states, are simply to get rid of influence in their former colonies and to make decisions about it. Turkey has its handcuffs on fire there, Russia has them, other countries have them. And Libya is not exactly a good example and a reason for adopting this proposed amendment of the Constitution here, rather the other way around.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u75	Thank you for keeping time on the factual note and therefore with priority right Minister of Culture of the Czech Republic Lubomír Zaorálek. After him with priority right Tomio Okamura and then properly registered Marek Výborný. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u76	Thank you. I wish you a good noon. In fact, in the end, the debate also made me express myself. Because, in principle, you're right here in the House, this constitutional change and the issue of authorising troops to be sent abroad, that is indeed a very serious matter. Even in different countries, this is often the subject of quite passionate debates, so I'm actually not so surprised that it's being discussed here. I agree with you, it's a controversial matter, it's a risky thing. Where we're sending soldiers may cause great passions, which is why I'm going to say why I voted in favour of the government to make it clear, because I am aware of the contradiction of the matter, yet I voted in favour. Because what has also been said here, given what the southern borders of Europe currently look like, what Africa looks like, how many disbanded states there are today, what the situation in the Sahel is, what the waves of migration from this area are like, and they are threatening, it's not some fiction, some of them. It's just reality. That is why, by the way, we have now approved another contingent of soldiers in Mali, Niger, because today it is one of the most critical places in terms of movement, in terms of, on the one hand, the action of terrorists and the movement of potential migrants to Europe. There are currently the largest number of broken-up states, i.e. Middle East, Sahel, North Africa. That is why the time actually requires that the state be able to react much faster than in the past. And I, in all my knowledge of how controversial this is and that it can provoke difficult debates, have raised my hand in the government for. Really, I assure you, it's a thing I've always been careful of, because I knew it was a dangerous tool - speeding up the possibility of sending soldiers is just a risk. And Parliament has the right to say, this is the thing we want to be in control of, and this debate is legitimate. And it is precisely because I feel obliged to tell you that I have considered it myself, but I thought that given these risks, we need to be able to be in those areas where there is no government, where we do not enter into any political matters, because those states are not under the control of anyone, and yet it may be a source of huge problems, so we must be able to intervene there. I can imagine the situation. That is why I agreed with the House to discuss it, which is why I agreed in the government that the Czech army should be able to vote (?) Faster. But it's a debate that's going to take place here on the committee and everywhere. I think it is perfectly okay that this is happening because it is not funny, it is essential, and Parliament has the task of controlling this and keeping it under control. So the debate is okay, and I don't blame her, and I feel obliged to say why I voted with all the knowledge of the risks to put the government here, because I think it's necessary. Then allow me to comment on the second thing that has arisen here, perhaps it will not tire you too much, but it is also a matter that I have been dealing with a little bit, so I will try to say it briefly here. And that's when we started discussing the history of shutting down Sulejmání in Iraq. I'll tell you what, maybe it's a little different to what's going on here, and it's given by the experience I've done, and why I'm concerned about this thing. I happened to have this weird debate in New York with Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov years ago, I wasn't alone in the debate, there were more ministers from Europe, and we had a huge fight with him because we blamed him for what Russia was doing. We asked him what they wanted to do next, and Lavrov said to me, "We will be your mirror." What you're gonna do, it's gonna be us. After what you've done in the Balkans, we'll do it somewhere else. We will copy Western policy. I think you understand why I'm saying this here and why I think what happened in Iraq is so dangerous. Since not long after Lavrov told us, events took place in Ukraine, Crimea. And you know the Russian argument that says, "How you behaved in the Balkans, so we behave there today." We're just returning your steps. Do you understand why I'm pretty scared when we're here saying there were good reasons to hit a foreign national with a drone like a rocket, just smash a whole bunch of people around him, kill them all? Then I read an article that said: The Číňan don't even believe how lucky they are. How someone here just shows them on a platter: this will be possible tomorrow if you need it. And geopolitically, and a lot of texts have been written about it, which is what Russia and China have most benefited from. For them, the space opened up tomorrow to say the same thing that Lavrov said to us then: as you do, so do we. And if anything bothers me, I don't know how we're gonna answer those arguments tomorrow. That's why I feel like that step was a grave mistake. And I'm afraid he'll come back to us, and that seems important to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u77	I thank the Minister of Culture for his speech. We will continue to perform Tomio Okamura with priority rights, Mr Marek Výborný will be prepared. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, the government with some opposition Members is presenting a bill that will allow it to broadcast our troops abroad without Parliament's consent. The SPD movement disagrees with this. Ladies and gentlemen, when we say that there is no democracy in the Czech Republic, but there is a party system of oligarchy, the other parties here in the House, whether government or non-governmental, tell us the myths about parliamentary democracy, which is said to be quite sufficient. And on this proposal, we see a typical example of other parties' policy. Why should only party leaders of government parties, i.e. those who sit in the government and not Parliament, have such a vital thing as the entry of Czech soldiers into a foreign country? This law is another attempt to cut off the last remnants of democracy from our system. In fact, the appellants, i.e. Mr Babiš, Mr Hamáček, Mrs Černochová, Mr Gazdík, Mr Farskýý and others, want to take one of the powers of citizens' representatives and give it to the Prime Minister and his government. This law, designed to facilitate support for US aggressions across the planet, shows a real alliance of parties such as the ČSSD, the YES, the ODS and the STAN movement. This shows that the leadership of these parties absolutely ignores the opinion of not only citizens but also voters. According to the survey, half of the citizens do not want soldiers in Afghanistan, and even 86 percent of the Čech want our foreign missions to focus on humanitarian, not military aid to local people. Three quarters of citizens think that soldiers should be involved in the reconstruction and construction of buildings and roads, which really means that instead of soldiers abroad - I am talking about it - they should send engineers and industrialists who will actually help the countries and at the same time not be part of the occupying or aggressor armies. YES, ČSSD, ODS and STAN are promoting an autocratic system in which not only citizens but even MEPs can decide. And when you send troops abroad against any regime, you can honestly say that it doesn't matter whether it's dictatorial or not, but the point is that one or the dictator is guilty of refusing to listen to your bosses in Brussels or Washington. It will be true and finally believable for the citizens. It is clear to us when we look at the plaintiffs who are mutually agreed that in this House, these proposals from the pen of the ANO, CSSD, ODS and STAN will be accepted. And now there's going to be some public debate so that citizens have at least some illusion of democracy. [[11.30 hours]] We all know why our soldiers are needed in U.S.-led foreign missions. The point is that Američan can show the world that the country has been ambushed and occupied by the international community and that it is not just an American power aggression. Propaganda's invasion of foreign countries confuses the public when it claims that we are fighting terrorism in missions in Afghanistan or elsewhere. It is quite clear and incriminating on the contrary. By occupations of foreign countries, by violent coups in foreign countries, we are merely creating further outbreaks of hatred, not just against the Američan, but against all those who help them. The US continues to commit war aggression, so it is welcome for the Američan to spread the blame for their crimes to more perpetrators, including us. But we should not care that we, who have experienced a few occupations on our own in our territory, participate in them today. War action in Syria, Iraq, Libya, Afghanistan, and other countries has brought nothing good anywhere. And waves of war and economic migrants, or some say refugees, and terror around the world is a direct consequence. I would also recall the words of the defense expert of the SPD movement, the retired colonel and our Vice-President for the Defence of Engineer Radovan Vích, who clearly supports our position that the proposed amendment to the Constitution is not necessary, because today the Czech Government can send our troops abroad for 60 days with restrictions on obligations arising from international treaties and rescue operations, peaceful natural disasters and environmental accidents. We consider this existing text more than sufficient. With regard to the rescue of Czech citizens in captivity somewhere abroad, it is also possible to solve this enough at present through specialized services of the security forces, not to use the Army of the Czech Republic for this purpose. Finally, I repeat that the SPD will not support this draft constitutional law so that without Parliament's approval, the government can send Czech soldiers to war and bring us into conflict on the basis of the government's decision. Once again, from the mouth of the Vice-President of our Radim Fiala movement, there has already been a motion on behalf of the SPD movement to reject this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u79	Thank you, Mr Tomio Okamur. Mr Jaroslav Bžoch's point of order now. A colleague, Marek, will Výborný himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Vice-President through the Vice-President, show me or tell me what country our troops are in as occupying troops when you talk about it. If there is a state where we, as the Czech Republic, are occupations. Tell me one thing. It may be your assumption or your wish for it to be, but it's not. We proceed within the framework of international treaties, coalition agreements and NATO. It's interesting that you're always talking about the United States occupying someone somewhere, somewhere at war. But what's interesting is that you don't mention Russia and Crimea. It is interesting that you do not mention how Iran behaves in that region, that it cooperates with Hezbollah, Hamas, where it suits them, what wars they wage. It's interesting that you choose the United States and where we are coalition partners.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u81	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, my colleague králíček, with a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u82	I would ask where Mr. Okamura went when he was burning down evil and nonsense. Where'd he go? Let him answer Mr. Bžoch! I'd like to hear the answer where we are the invaders. Don't let him get scared!
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u83	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Marek the Výborný. Then a colleague of Pikal will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u84	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, Vice Prime Minister, Government, ladies and gentlemen, when I signed up for the debate, we were here in a completely different constellation. And I wanted to say that I will not be involved and there is no point in convincing the convinced here, into the ping-pong among KSČM MPs and I would say almost the rest of the House, although now I see that this is not the whole rest of the House. I would just like to say to Mr Bžoch, through Mr President, that this is nothing special and new. Mr Okamura always with complete contempt - Mr Okamura, Vice-President of the House, will always leave this House with complete contempt at the moment when he is faced with arguments that are quite obvious. I agree with you. I'd say almost the same thing. But I think it's pointless to ask him for an answer. If the answer isn't, then he just walks out in the middle and he doesn't do anything. Well, that's all there is to it. Let me take a few notes on what was said here. It was said that the law was somehow escalating international tensions. I think that's what my colleague Klaus Jr. said. I'm afraid it's the opposite. The law, as it is prepared, is intended to help respond to any escalation and reduce the escalation. KDU-ČSL supports the law. I was offended when Mr. Okamura here did not name KDU-ČSL. Well, I'm proud of it. As KDU-ČSL's chairman, together with his predecessor Pavel Bělobrádek, also an expensive memory of KDU-ČSL, we are both signed under this law, just like some of our other colleagues. We consider him important. I would certainly also like to stand up for my colleague Růžička here, although he is a member of the YES movement, because in this sense the attacks that were against him were completely inappropriate. The proposal, as it is, is really intended to help respond to a situation that is simply not ideal today. If anyone says that 30 years ago we adopted some text of the Constitution that is sufficient, then the situation - I hope that anyone who watches the media, who watches public international political and geopolitical events, sees that the situation is simply dramatically different. Today we are in a situation where, in turn, it can also be a threat to citizens of the Czech Republic. We are in a situation where we are dealing with completely new challenges, hybrid challenges and more. And these are things that we simply need to be prepared to respond to regardless of whether there is currently an YES, a social democracy in the government, or next time there will be someone else. Thus, in this sense, I believe that if we adopt this amendment to the Constitution, we will, on the contrary, strengthen the prestige between our allies within the Euro-Atlantic Group. It's very important. And I don't see it as a weakening of the role or position of the House. There's no way this is happening. If you read the whole thing well, the House can, of course, put its foot between the doors, it can decide that the government is not in harmony. And the Senate can do it, because if you read it well, all you have to do is express one chamber, whether it's the Senate or the Chamber of Deputies, which will mean a stop sign for the government in its actions. But I would like to remind you that this is not just a question of sending our soldiers to the scenes of some escalation of the conflict, but it is also a question of how to face illegal migration. If the SPD doesn't even realize this, I feel like it's against his program. But I don't want to talk about it, that's their business. Finally, I would like to stress that KDU-ČSL not only is signed under this law, but also supports it from the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u85	I thank Mr Marek the Výborný. Now the de facto comment of Secretary of Defense Lubomír Metnar. A colleague of the Vice-President Pikal will be ready. You have your word, Minister, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u86	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thought I had already had my speech, that I had presented myself, but some statements really forced me to respond to some of my previous speakers' things. And that is what I would like to emphasise. When it comes to putting in that they should be somewhere to work building roads, you know well, here I must categorically reject this and stand up for the soldiers. Every time there were extraordinary events, soldiers would help in all disasters, whether natural or industrial accidents. So it has nothing to do with it. I would also like to pick up that the soldier we value here is a very professional profession that deserves our respect. And the latest polls prove that, too. There are things I wouldn't like the soldiers who deserve our respect to be dragged into such debates as occupations and others. I must reject these arguments and defend my soldiers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u87	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal, will prepare Lubomír Volný. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have also declared myself in this debate a long time ago, but I understand that factual points have priority. I'd try to sum it up. In principle, one thing that interests me is that there was talk about the same proposal being made in the previous parliamentary term, so at that time the government gave it an opinion that contained some criticisms or something like that, while this time the government did not have any comments on the practically identical proposal. I don't know if it says anything about the work of a new government or... I would like to quote a part of this earlier opinion, point 3: "The Government also recommends maintaining the existing constitutional regulation in relation to the decision on the residence of the armed forces of other states in the territory of the Czech Republic, this is the preservation of the power of the democratically and directly elected Parliament to decide, in certain cases, the residence of foreign troops in the Czech territory. The proposed amendment to Article 43 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Treaty') shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4 The Constitution of the Czech Republic consisting of limiting this decision-making power of Parliament and de facto transferring it to the Government would be a short stay of the foreign army in the territory of the Czech Republic, the government considers, among other things, to be debatable and potentially dangerous in view of the historical experience of the Czech Republic. Despite the proposed maintenance of Parliament's supervisory authority in relation to a possible government decision, this opinion is held by the Government." And maybe that's the thing that's kind of bothering me there, 'cause there's a lot of talk here about the government having legitimate trust, too, and it came out of the election. But I think that the recent experience of the Czech Republic with parliamentarianism and how a government can develop, whose trust it is based on, this argument puts a little bit on the water, because it did not always come directly from the elections, it did not always start to rule with confidence and it did not always have that trust immediately and soon, or not always after it lost that trust, so there was some more fundamental exchange of government. So the argument that the government that's doing the broadcast doesn't have the confidence will stand, because nowhere in the Constitution is the power of the government restricted without trust. And so now, specifically, on these proposals. First of all, I would stop at the amendment to paragraph 5, which extends the permits for transits and passes so that it can be mass. Basically, there's no problem with that. We're lucky we don't have to deal with it if any troops wanted to sail through us, then we wouldn't have a tool to do it quickly. But there's no chance of that yet. As regards paragraph 6, which shifts actually purely the moment when Parliament is to be informed that any permission has taken place without delay and without undue delay. I understand it's some kind of state-of-the-art alignment with the Constitution. In principle, that is not a problem if it concerns only the amendment in Article 5. But with that combination of Article 6, I'm not at all sure... that Article 4, the amendment - I'm sorry, I'm not sure if this is the way we want to go so that if the government decides to send the armed forces of the Czech Republic outside the Czech Republic, so that it doesn't have to let us know immediately, but so that it can wait until it decides when to tell us or prepare an additional justification for any reason. There I think it's to consider some better formulation, or if it's two cases, in this case, not separate. And the last thing that's being proposed, and here I have the biggest reservations. Now the government has the power to send our forces abroad for a period of 60 days in the specifically mentioned limited cases resulting from the obligations of international treaties and participation in peace operations with the UN mandate or the like, and we are replacing this with a Bianko cheque. I understand that there are some new facts or new cases or new commitments that are not due to an international treaty, but we have somehow committed ourselves to them and that the action mandate needs to be given to the government, where appropriate. But in that case, we should address this by possibly extending the mandate to these limited listed cases. I really don't think the solution is to give the government a blank check to allow them to do so in all cases, because there's a terrible difference between being built in that our soldiers are already somewhere, and whether we agree to continue, or whether we're actually sending our soldiers somewhere. Those are completely different decisions, and I'm not sure this shift is good. Of course, as I said in the introduction, this is a real problem that needs to be dealt with. I am clearly in favour of moving this proposal to second reading and discussing it properly in the committees. But I do not think that this text is entirely ideal, as it is proposed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u89	Thank you, Vice-President Pikal. And before we continue with Mr Lubomír Volný's speech, I state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, from 11 to 13 o'clock for health reasons, by Mr Karel Schwarzenberg, Mr Antonín Staněk from 11.30 to 12 o'clock for business reasons, and by Member Petr Bendl from the whole day for family reasons. Now MP Lubomír Volný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u90	Thank you, Mr President. We Members of the Unified Movement will not support this bill. We have these reasons. With the ongoing principle of shared sovereignty, efforts to create a European army and pressure that we know can develop our allies, as well as the many illegal actions of our allies, such as the occupation of Syria's territory or direct support for Muslim terrorists by Turkey, we fear that our army will once again deepen the role of a mere expeditionary corps, which, after pressure from allies, will be sent by government decisions into legally ambiguous actions, in which they will potentially become perpetrators of war crimes. I wouldn't wish this on any of our soldiers. Libya is a perfectly deterrent example of what happens when we export our concept of democracy to a culturally incompatible country with our weapons. By adopting this law, we risk the emergence of a situation where our soldiers enter the territory of another country historically for the first time in the role of the occupying army. I also draw attention to the fact that this particular government will not be in power forever and ever, but that sooner or later a government can be established here, which they will like even less than today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u91	Thank you, Members of the Volný. In fact, Mr Vojtěch Pikal, Vice-President. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u92	Thank you, Mr President. It won't be entirely to the point, rather than just the fact that Mr Volný said they were united behind the movement. You are not elected Unified, you have been elected another political entity. The Unity movement would be more accurate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u93	Another factual comment by the Volný Member who responds... Ambassador, if you'd like to... So he canceled his point of order. In that case, Mr Navrkal, at this point, the last one entered into the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u94	Thank you for the floor. Hello, esteemed colleagues. I would only ask by your means, Mr Vice-President, both the appellants and the Government, or the members of the Government who have agreed to this, why the appellant does not merely propose extending the list in paragraph 4 of Article 43, which already contains the fulfilment of obligations, participation in peace operations, etc., on those other cases where it is appropriate for the Government to have the power to send an army. And instead, giving the government such a blank check with the risks that many of my previous speakers have described. So if the plaintiffs and the government can't explain this to us at first reading right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u95	I thank Mr Navrkal and ask who is reporting for the debate from the point of view. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. In the final words, the appellants' representatives want to respond to the debate. So I end the general debate and give the final word to the plaintiff's representative. Mrs. Černochová, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u96	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will start from the end and respond to the question of the Member. We consulted this variant with constitutional lawyers and did not recommend it. Because, in general, the thickening of the Constitution and the deepening of its causal character is simply not good. That was the argument that was raised there. But this option was also one of the discussed ones, and eventually this option was chosen with constitutional lawyers after agreement. As for what was said here in the debate, right at the beginning, when Vice-President Filip here said that this would be contrary to the Rules of Procedure, I would certainly like to assure all my colleagues and colleagues that this is not the case. The Vice-President himself said so, and I said so myself, that the last amendment to the Constitution was discussed in 2000. Communists still have a constant view of this. Even in 2000, Communist Members did not vote in favour of the proposal, unlike other Members. So it actually worked out, the 60-day deadline worked out well in practice. In 2000 something was approved, we have 2020, 20 years of practice in our democracy, which lasts over 30 years, is a long enough time, don't you think? So here I would really like to assure everyone that no one will bend the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I beg to say that Parliament will lose some of its powers. I have already spoken about this in my opening words of the petitioner, virtually. the appellants, so I would perhaps just repeat here that this amendment does not really strengthen the position of executive and, at the same time, does not weaken Parliament's position. He continues to have the authority to intervene in the government's decision to force the government to change its decision and to withdraw the troops. The 60-day deadline prevents any chaining, as it is not possible to send without the agreement of both chambers of Parliament for a longer period of time, and I have already said so. After all, sending a unit that - now this is a response to comments from SPD colleagues in particular - is quite illusory to send a unit capable of starting a war without notice in such a short time. Thus, the procedure of negotiation, as I have already said, remains essentially the same, only a taxative list of situations where the government can send within 60 days. I appreciate the attitude of the Pirát, too. Mr. Vice-President of the Defence Committee Lipavský, when I held a seminar on the grounds of the Defence Committee, unfortunately, he was not, perhaps some things would have been explained there already. Constitutional lawyers have just been there, with whom we have also dealt with some of his hovering questions there. So, of course, the amendments, if the proposal goes through the next reading, I'm going to pay attention to them. I am also prepared to invite constitutional lawyers to do so again, so that, in fact, if the pirát propose any further improvements, so that we can be sure that it will again be lege artis with our constitutional order. Thank you for the first-reading debate. There are a number of suggestions that we can address from the point of view of our foreign policy. I also appreciate the helpful presentation of the Minister of Culture Zaorálek, although I do not have to agree with him in the second part, so thank you for raising his hand for the proposal, because I really think the proposal is in favour of the security of the Czech Republic. My last reaction is to Mr. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Pikal. Yes, there is no difference between the paragraph, the paragrafo text and the old and the new. There is a difference in the explanatory report, which has just responded by explaining some of the comments made in the last press during the last parliamentary term. So the sections didn't change, the text of the explanatory note changed, which responded to some of the comments. And it was also for the government, and these comments were convincing enough to give a positive opinion. That's all for me as a plaintiff at the moment. I would then simply state and ask the honourable colleagues, in agreement with the constitutionally-legal committee, with rapporteur Dominik Feri, that we would propose that the Guarantee Committee become the Defence Committee. Of course, another committee dealing with this issue will be the constitutionally-legal committee. And, of course, I also support Mr Feri's proposal for this proposal to be addressed by the Constitutional Commission. At the same time, we have an agreement that, after the exchange of first the guarantee committee and then the exchange of the rapporteur, we would propose to the rapporteur of this press, Mr Mr KDU-ČSL President Jan Bartošek, who wanted to sign the proposal, but did not sign it because I kept it as an advance for the rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u97	Thank you for the final word, the final word of the rapporteur. [[The appellants]] Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to sum up some of the things that have been said here in the debate, to build them for sure. And then to comment on the course of the debate at all. There was an objection -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u99	Mr rapporteur, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace! We will decide on proposals, and I would like everyone to take a good look at the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u100	Thank you for calling to peace, Mr. Vice-President. As far as the tax bill is concerned - tax credits are generally problematic because they are simply taxable. That the normal life and all the situations that may arise in it, and let us consider that the international political situation is very complex, dramatic and unpredictable, so they are always one step ahead of the constitutionalist. And if we only expand the list of other letters and other letters, then first of all it is completely contrary to some legislative technique, simply the Constitution is not to be a manual for automatic washing machines, but it is also somewhat irreversible, because there will always be some possibility that the situation will not be able to be subordinate to any provision in Article 43. That's why it's better than going down this kasuistic path to take the so-called Bianca check. [[12.00 hours]] bianko check as such is actually not wrong when there are control mechanisms that are set up there, because in Article 43 and generally in this procedure, when the government sends armed forces abroad, so there is an enhanced liability regime, not only the application of the general constitutional-political responsibility, that is, classically the responsibility of the Government of the Chamber of Deputies, but the responsibility is reinforced by the fact that each of those chambers can cancel the decision of the government by the majority of its members, which, by the way, is reflected in practical life, because when you look at the colored or party composition of the Senate, it is quite different from that of the Chamber of Deputies. So the liability regime is really reinforced there, and it serves as a kind of cauté to make sure that the provision, the authority of the government, is not abused. As far as the debate is concerned - without delay, without undue delay - I think we can request an opinion on this in the constitutionally-legal committee. In my view, there is no difference between this and it can be distinguished by systematic interpretation, or it can be done, but I understand that it is better to be more vigilant if we give the government some kind of authority and if we impose obligations on it. As far as the debate is concerned, it was very interesting. Sometimes I think that Mr President should have called to the point, but it is important that a motion has been made to reject which we are going to vote on, and the other proposals - and I agree with them - mentioned here by the Vice-Presidents is that the Guarantee Committee should become a Committee on Defence, and we as the constitutionally-legal committee and the Permanent Commission for the Constitution will deal with this, I think, from a slightly different perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u101	Thank you. Those were the final words. And as we have heard, there has been a motion for rejection and also a conditional motion for repayment. First of all, we will vote on the motion for rejection. I'm gonna sign you all out because I overheard a request like that. Please sign up again with your voting cards. We are now ready for the vote. We shall vote on the rejection of the proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 133. Registered 161 Members, for 35, against 109. The motion was not accepted. Since we have not accepted the motion for rejection, we will now vote on the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 134. 164 Members registered, for 41, versus 107. Nor has this proposal been adopted. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. As has already been said, the Organising Committee has proposed ordering the proposal to be discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. However, there was a counter-proposal for the Guarantee Committee to be a Defence Committee. The plaintiff. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u102	It's a deal. Since the Organizing Committee has determined - from the logic of the matter, it is a constitutional law - the ÚPV, I have no longer been able to discuss it through the Organizing Committee to make the change by the Organizing Committee. So it is in agreement with the Chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, Mr Mark Benda, and it is also in agreement with the rapporteur of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, Dominik Feri. Of course, in the procedure, it may sound counterproposal, but it's not some issue that's questionable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u103	Copy that. Thank you. President Kováčik with priority rights or a proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u104	Thank you, thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at such moments, let us consider more than just the agreement of committee officials. This is a fundamental amendment to the Constitution. Every amendment to the Constitution is essential. None is small or less essential. We are interfering with the basic law of this state, which is why I personally believe that the guarantee committee must be a committee of constitutional law. And I beg you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u105	Mr. Chairman Michálek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u106	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to say that I don't consider it a thing that would be completely indisputable, because it goes against the practice we had here. When we discussed the change of the Supreme Audit Office, the amendment to the Constitution was also directed to the Constitutional Legal Committee. So the proposals relating to the Constitution went to the constitutional-legal committee as a guarantee, because the fundamental material that is being addressed in this press is the question of the division of power between Parliament and the government, and this has to be discussed on the constitutional-legal committee, albeit of course I respect the role of the Defence Committee - or perhaps in some cases of the Committee on Attack, it would be more appropriate - if the government's powers were to be extended this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u107	Chairman Chvojka with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u108	Thank you for the floor. Have a nice noon, co-workers, co-workers. I have to join my two previous speakers. It has logic, and I, as Vice-President of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, at the same time as the person who signed the amendment and supported it, I do not know of any agreement, I apologize that it should go to the defence committee as a guarantee committee. I really think it belongs on the floor of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. It is purely constitutionally legal, it is really about the division of power, and so I ask that the constitutionally-legal committee be preserved as a committee of guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u109	Thank you and we will decide by vote. I'm still the plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u110	Mr. Vice-President, I don't want to put any pressure on this place. As I said, there's a deal with Marek Benda, but unfortunately, he was duly excused from this meeting. He's not here. He'd definitely get out. I just understand the comments. In any case, we would not miss the Constitutional Legal Committee, just as we would not miss the Constitutional Commission, but as part of the friendly conclusion of today's negotiations on such a serious point, I withdraw my proposal, so let it continue with the IDA and let it be the second committee that has it, the Defence Committee, and then I will appoint Mr Bartošek as chairman of the committee. It just really seems to me that it wouldn't be the first case that we did this, and if there's an agreement between two committees, then I didn't see the problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u111	Thank you, so the counterproposal is withdrawn. We will not vote on the assignment of the Defence Committee as a guarantee committee. We will now vote on the proposal from the Organising Committee to discuss this proposal as a guarantee committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 135. 168 Members registered, for 165, against no one. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. The plaintiff? The rapporteur is reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u112	Yes, I propose a defense committee and a permanent Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u113	Yes, I've noticed. Mr. Rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u114	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. The plaintiff took the words from my mouth. I join the motion for a commandment to the Permanent Commission for the Constitution for a simple reason, because we already have information that the Constitutional Commission of the Senate has a slightly different idea of how the article should be conceived and how it should be conceived. And the permanent Constitutional Commission is meeting with the Senate Constitutional Commission, and that's where we'll actually be looking for the solution. Not on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, not on the Defence Committee, but on the Permanent Commission. So I'm joining the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u115	Thank you. Yes, Mr. MP. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u116	Thank you, Mr President. I propose that this matter be further ordered to the Foreign Committee, because this is a matter which concerns outright foreign actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u117	Yes, Mr Kobza's proposal for an assignment to the Foreign Committee. We will also deal with it by voting. Anyone else please report to the Committees? He's not reporting. We will gradually vote on the commandments of the committees as those proposals have been tabled. Now we will vote on the Commandment of the Defence Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 136, 169 Members signed up, for 154, against no one. The motion was ordered by the Defence Committee. Another motion was made at the commandment of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 137, 169 Members signed up, for 168, against no one. We have ordered the motion to discuss the Permanent Commission for the Constitution. The last proposal that was made on the commandment was a proposal for discussion in the foreign committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 138, 168 Members voted in favour of 61, against 68. The proposal was rejected and the Foreign Committee will not deal with this proposal, respectively. We didn't order him to. Mr Sklenák for the vote. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u118	Yes, thank you. Colleagues, I am not questioning the vote, but I voted no in vote number 133, and I have a yes on the record, so please put it in the log.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u119	Yes, thank you. The vote was not called into question. There was no proposal to shorten or extend the period. I thank the appellant, the rapporteur, and I conclude on this point. We should now discuss paragraph 35, the Government's proposal for a law on lobbying, the House's press 565, first reading, but Minister Marie Benešová is excused, she is on a foreign journey. No one else is in charge, so we cannot deal with this proposal. We also have the same situation in the case of paragraph 36, i.e. a government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the law on lobbying, we cannot address this point for this reason. Mr Petr Vrána apologizes from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 11.45 to 19.00 on the occasion of a doctor's visit. And Prime Minister Michálek claims priority rights. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u120	Thank you for the floor. I think that lobbying regulation is an important matter, and that if the Minister is not present, they should instruct another Minister or Vice-President of the Government to put the proposal here so that we can deal with the issue. If the ministers are not here, then, of course, this blows up the entire agenda of the Chamber of Deputies, and then it is quite difficult to focus on what is really going on and what isn't. So I wanted to ask the government if it would delegate - or if it knew that the minister would not be here at the time when the lobbying bill that he submitted was to be discussed, so that he would ask to include those proposals for some other time, so that it wouldn't fall to the very end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-29-ps2017-040-06-004-162.u121	Thank you. I'm opening another point. It's point 39. It is a government bill amending Act No. 61/2000 Sb., on maritime navigation, as amended, House press 589 first reading. The press should mention the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, but since he is not present, he will not mention it, and I have no other mandate of a member of the Government to present this press, so we cannot address this point either. I'm opening another point. It's a point number.
