ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u1	6. Government bill amending Act No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 360/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the bill submitted will be stated by the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová. And before I give her my word, I will ask not only for the attention of Roman Kubíček, who is the rapporteur of the Supervisory Committee, but also a colleague of Farský, Dolejš and Karel Rais, who are the rapporteur of other committees ordered by this press. Now, then... Not yet, Madam Secretary, because there's a lot of noise. I'm gonna ask my colleagues for some peace. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the second reading of this House press 360, a government bill amending the Supreme Audit Office Act. It should be borne in mind that the draft amendment to the Act is implemented one of the government's commitments contained in its programming declaration, which aims to extend the existing limited scope of the SAO's control. The adoption of the Act requires the simultaneous approval of the constitutional extension of the supervisory powers of the Supreme Audit Office. In this regard, I would like to point out that it follows the proposal from the Parliament of the Constitution, which has already been tabled, and this is the House Press 229. Knowledge of the Supreme Audit Office needs to be expanded because some are missing and some are long overtaken. It is therefore necessary to obtain the information needed from the broadest possible spectrum of entities, and it is a spectrum of entities dealing with public finances. As far as this proposal is concerned, it is presented as a related legislation to the already annexed draft amendment of the Constitution, print 229, and therefore it is necessary to extend the existing limited constitutional scope of the SAO's control. Summary of the current course of discussion in the Chamber of Deputies: It was discussed in the first reading on 12 February 2019. It was ordered by the Supervisory Committee as the production of a guarantee, then a constitutionally-legal committee, a committee on public administration and regional development and a committee on education, culture, youth and physical development. The Supervisory Committee recommended that the draft law be approved with amendments contained in the resolution of the Committee, registered as printing 360/8. These proposals consist in narrowing down the territory of local authorities whose management is to be controlled by the SAO in addition to the management of the regions, from municipalities with extended scope only to statutory cities, and in releasing the control of the management of public universities and public research institutions from the control of SAOs, in legislative technical adjustments resulting from the amendments and in shifting the start of inspections of SAOs for local authorities from 2021 to 2023. As far as the Committee on Science, Education, Culture and Youth and Sports is concerned, it recommended that the draft law be approved with the amendments contained in the resolution of the committee registered as press 360/4. The Committee proposed to exclude from the SAO's control of the management of public universities. As regards the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, it recommended that the draft law be approved in the version submitted. It's a 360/5 print. The last - constitutionally-legal - committee discussed the bill on the 3rd April of last year, interrupted the hearing, and then on 11 December of last year, and therefore interrupted the hearing again. As submitters, we initially disagreed with the removal of public universities and public research institutions from the list of scope of the SAO's supervisory powers, for the following reasons: The purpose of the proposed extension of the supervisory powers is to control bodies which are viewed as bodies of a public nature. In the case of public universities, these are bodies to which the State has entrusted its assets and their activities are significantly supported by state budget funds, and therefore it is in the social interest to find out how these bodies manage. As far as the conclusion is concerned, by approving the extension of the Supreme Audit Office's supervisory powers, there will be room for the necessary and necessary information on the method of management and the possibility of the Supreme Audit Office to examine the way public finances are managed to the extent proposed, it will also perform a significant preventive function in this area. As regards us as petitioners, I recommend that we speak with the proposed bill amending Act No. 166/1993 Coll., your consent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u3	I thank the Minister of Justice, Marie Benešová, and I note that we ordered the proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Supervisory Committee as a guarantee committee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Constitutional and Legal Committee, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. All resolutions have been delivered to you as House prints 360/1 to 360/9. I will now ask Mr Roman Kubíček, the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, to inform us of the committee's discussion and to justify any changes. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after a long committee hearing, we have finally reached a second reading of this law. Following the discussion that was raised at first reading, the Audit Committee agreed to some compromises by which this Act amended and complied with all the objections raised, which it discussed at its 20th meeting on 12 June 2019 and adopted the following resolution: Audit Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening interpretation of Deputy Minister of Justice Jan Kněžínek, news report by Roman Kubíček, opinion of Vice President of the Supreme Audit Office Zdeňka Horníková and after the debate I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that the Government's bill amending Act No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended, and other related laws, House press 360, approved, as amended by the following amendments: [[16.00 hours]] 1. In Article I.5, in Section 3a (1) (a), the words "the enlarged population' shall be replaced by the words "statutory cities'. 2. In Article I, point 5, paragraph 1 (a) is replaced by the following: (b) point 3 shall be deleted. In Section 3a, paragraph 1 (a) is replaced by the following: (b) points 4 to 11 are referred to as points 3 to 10. 3. In Article I, point 5, paragraph 1 (a) is replaced by the following: (b) point 8 shall be deleted. In Section 3a, paragraph I. (b) points 9 to 10 are referred to as points 8 and 9. 4. In Article I, point 6, the first number "10' is replaced by "8' in the sentence of Section 4, paragraph 2. 5. In Article I (6) the second number "11' is replaced by "9' in the second sentence of Section 4, paragraph 2. 6. In Article I, point 7 is inserted after point 6 as amended by: 7. In Article 12, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 "15' is replaced by "17'. Points 7 to 9 are referred to as points 8 to 10. 7. In point (2) of Article II, point (a) is replaced by the following: (a) '2021' is replaced by '2023'. 8. In Article II (2), point (2) is replaced by the following: (b) repealed. The present point (c) shall be referred to as point (b). II. It hereby authorises the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the appellant and the Legislative Department, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments to the Office of the Chamber of Deputies. III. He instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. IV. It hereby authorises the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, when the amendment to the Education Committee is read, this is a duplicate of this comprehensive amendment in the global. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u5	I thank the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee to Roman Kubíček and I will therefore ask the rapporteurs of the other committees to take the floor gradually. First, the rapporteur of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, Member Jan Farský. Jiří Dolejš will be ready. [[Ambassador Dolejš approached the pitch.]] No, Mr. Colleague. A colleague of Farský first. You guys be ready. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u6	Thank you for the floor. On the House of Press 360, the amendment to the Act on the Supreme Audit Office, the Constitutional and Legal Committee expressed a total of twice, in April 2019, when it suspended the hearing, and for the second time in December, 13 December 2019, when it once again interrupted the discussion of this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u7	Thank you. Mr Jiří Dolejš, rapporteur for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. A colleague, Václav Rais, will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I already have a reflex that when I hear my name coming out of your mouth, I just ran out. But basically, I don't have anything essential to say, just that the Committee on Public Administration and Regions has discussed it. Of course, he saw some adjustments in the debate, but he left that burden on the guarantee committee. So we supported the press as it is, without our own comments and amendments. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u9	I thank the rapporteur, Mr Jiří Dolejš. Now the rapporteur for the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Karel Rais. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u10	Have a good day. I won't be as brief as my colleague. I have a resolution here from April 3, 2019, which is roughly a year. We have, of course, discussed this and, after the debate, we recommend to the Chamber of Deputies to agree with the Government's bill amending Act 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office as amended and other related laws, which is the Chamber's printing 360, as amended by these amendments. And here are the amendments: I. In the first part of Article 1, the amendment point 5 in Section 3a (1) is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (b) point 9 is deleted and the other points are exceeded. In Part 1 of the first Article, paragraph 6 is replaced by the following: in Section 4, the following paragraph 2 is inserted after paragraph 1: " ((2) For the control of the management of the territorial self-governing unit referred to in Section 3a (1) (a). (a) the management of legal persons referred to in Section 3 (a) (i). Article 4 (1) (a) (b) in points 2 to 9 and in the control of the management of legal persons referred to in Article 3 (3) (b). Article 4 (1) (a) (c) the Office shall verify the compliance of their management with the legislation. In controlling the management of the Czech National Bank pursuant to § 3a para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) point 10 shall be reviewed by the Office for the acquisition of assets and expenditure on the operation of the Czech National Bank." paragraphs 2 and 3 shall be referred to as paragraphs 3 and 4. II. He instructs the chairman of the committee, then Mr Klaus, to submit this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, which he did. III. It entrusts the Committee's rapporteurs, Mr Karel Rais, to deliver the resolution at the Chamber of Deputies meeting - this is what I am doing. IV. In cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, it shall instruct the Committee's rapporteur Raise to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u11	I thank Mr Karel Rais for his news report. I am opening a general debate in which I have the priority right of Vice-President Tomio Okamura. A duly registered Member of Vácha shall be prepared. But first, I must respect the exercise of the Vice-President's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, after a long time, we have come back to the amendment to the Supreme Audit Office Act, the SAO. It shows the degree of importance the government attaches to it. The fact is that the Supreme Audit Office is a subject of its kind and a problem which is not impartial, but rather splits parties across the entire political spectrum, with the exception of the SPD, which, as the only one to the maximum, supports the strengthening of the powers of the Supreme Audit Office in the area of controlling all public money management, i.e. control of how money is spent by citizens and taxpayers. It cannot be noticed that we also have lobbies in the House against the Supreme Audit Office, that is, so that the Supreme Audit Office can control all public funds management. Parliamentary committees have been quite successful in negotiating this amendment of the law, and some of them have not forgiven for adding proposals that would reduce the proposed enlargement of the audited bodies. I look forward to the lobbyists trying to explain why, for example, a scientific institution or a public college should not be controlled, why their management of public finances should not be controlled by the Supreme Audit Office. We in the SPD want and promote that all entities that collect public money can be controlled, including, of course, non-profit organisations. Of course, I am thinking first of all of those political non-profit organizations. But, as I see it, the SPD is alone in this, and it seems that even after this amendment of the law, it will again not be controlled by all those who manage public money, even those who manage really large public money, such as public universities or public scientific institutions. Of course, we in the SPD disagree. There were times when the Security and Information Service, the BIS, was less interested in ideology and more about the functionality of our state. And from this time, from 2015, I would like to quote part of the BIS report. [[16.10 hours]] I quote: "The public administration dysfunction was most often due to the lack of sufficient responsibility for the consequences of their own decisions by civil servants and persons holding public office. In some cases, this responsibility was completely lacking. Disadvantage contracts were often concluded and public contracts were entrusted to firms with unclear ownership structure or were awarded without a tender procedure. The result was poor management of the assets entrusted, but there were no criminal offences and evidence of the degree of guilt was very difficult. The responsibility of specific persons was often lost during the approval process, in which it was transferred from one person to another, without the precise proportion and role of each person involved in the final decision being defined. As a result of this practice, public money was put into private hands. As a result, it was not only the considerable economic impact on public budgets but also the weakening of efficiency, the credibility of public administration performance. In the case of both formal and content compliance with the applicable standards, this would not have occurred at all." End quote from the Security Information Service report, BIS. On this point, I would like to say that these statements still apply today. And if something is really threatening our country, it is billions that are disappearing because of the lack of systemic measures against abuse, theft of public money. Mistakes can happen everywhere. There may be a few individuals everywhere who are stealing or harming the company. It's a natural phenomenon. On the other hand, the only system solution is to continuously expose these things by means of independent controls, and consequently to prosecute immediately and to lead to accountability. Since independent controls, we have a truly professional institution, the Supreme Audit Office, and there is no reason not to use its apparatus wherever possible. Thieves undermine citizens' faith in justice. They undermine the economy and, of course, cause losses that are then reflected in the inability or unwillingness of the state to tackle poverty and social problems of people who really cannot help themselves. We have a happy millionaire and a billionaire here today. On the other hand, disabled and retired people begging on the street. We have a wealthy state that distributes billions of orders, or maybe half a billion, as we are currently witnessing in the case of an e-shop contract under the direction of the Ministry of Transport for the ANO movement. And I have to say, on the one hand, the state here is handing out hundreds of millions, billions, overestimating contracts, but the disabled and old-age pensioners who have worked their whole lives are unable to secure at least a dignified minimum pension. Here I would remind you that the draft law of the SPD pen on the legalization of a minimum dignified pension at the level of poverty, which today is about 14,000 pure, has been here for months in the House and has not been willing by the government to accept it. So, on the one hand, a half-billion-dollar overpriced contract for an ANO e-shop, but the government doesn't want to discuss the SPD proposal here for a minimum dignified pension of poverty for old-age and disabled pensioners. And, of course, money is also missing for efficient investments that would bring profits to the state in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, think about this when we vote on the form of the SAO Act. The more exceptions, the more holes in the colander that drain public money, money for all of us, money for our citizens, money that we could use much more effectively. So the SPD will follow the final version, and in any case, we advocate - but as I look at it from the current discussion, the SPD is the only party that promotes here - that all the entities that manage public funds are controlled by the Supreme Audit Office, so I hope that we will come to a similar outcome, and in any case, the SPD obviously supports the extension of the powers of the Supreme Audit Office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u13	I thank the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Tomio Okamur, and Mr František Vácha will speak in the debate and Mr Martin Kupka will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear government, I have tabled an amendment to the draft amendment to the SAO Act, which has just been removed from the law of the university. Similarly, my fellow Member, Melková, from our committee, tabled an amendment which included public research institutions, but then, of course, the Supervisory Committee adopted resolution 360/8, the comprehensive amendment that includes all of this. And I just wanted to ask Madam Secretary, I didn't quite notice from your speech if you would recommend this comprehensive amendment to the Supervisory Committee for approval. You're nodding to recommend it. Otherwise, I would have read my amendment, but if there was a general consensus on supporting a comprehensive amendment from the Supervisory Committee, I wouldn't be reading anything, because it wouldn't be worth it. My colleague Okamura's performance. I don't know how this is possible, but in 2019 we had at the University of South Bohemia, in our faculty, the SAO for three months and controlled the money that came into the long-term conceptual development of organizations, which means that you have to - and not only the workforce, but you have to separate one room that has a window and is lockable. You have to have all that in that institution ready for the controls, and that check came about, maybe now I'm going to overdo it, a week after there was a control from the financial office that controlled practically the same thing, and it was about a few months after there was a control from the Ministry of Education, which also controlled the exact same thing. That means, this isn't about protecting some institutions from being controlled, it's about protecting some institutions from being controlled many times. You have to realize that those people who have to interact with the inspection body, that means going to the archives, bringing every receipt, normally showing a different job, and like the ladies in the administration department -- which are great employees, I would like to thank them with this -- they're doing it for 22,000 gross. Colleges, it's not like they're supposed to be institutions where huge billions go. Colleges are now underfunded by tens of billions. There's some 0.4 of GDP going to college, but the OECD wants it, or we would imagine it, or the company would imagine it to go a lot more. That means, it's not like those colleges have any kind of surplus that they're splitting up somewhere, I don't know where. There it is, that each crown turns twice in the palm of your hand and you wonder what to spend it on. And if we should focus on something, I think it should be a law on public procurement that forces us to do things like dynamic purchasing systems or contracts. So then you get computers that you have to buy by a few thousand dollars before you buy them at, like, an e-shop. So that was it. I would like to withdraw my application from the detailed debate because I have received assurances from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u15	I thank Mr František Vách. Now, Mr Martin Kupka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u16	Madam Minister, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to present to you an amendment which goes in a different direction than that of the SAO's already discussed extension of the SAO's powers, but also closely linked to the extension of the SAO's powers. We are presenting this amendment together with colleague Marek Výborný, Vít Rakušan and Marek Benda. The only objective of this amendment is to resolve one of the serious problems of the Czech Republic, namely the excessive control burden, which is not mentioned so much, but which often also leads to inefficient controls where, for example, there are uncoordinated activities of control bodies, which at the same time, especially for small municipalities, but also for small companies, carry out their controls and can cripple any other activity of those entities, in the case of municipalities, everything that needs to be arranged and ensured for citizens of the territory, in the case of small companies, then they can also cripple the creation of any value that is naturally the primary objective of these companies. [[16.20 hours]] We therefore submit an amendment that allows the SAO and effectively requires the SAO to also deal with monitoring of the system of controls in the Czech Republic. The way in which the Czech Republic is able to develop its control activities. We all undoubtedly agree that the functionality of each state is to be able to effectively control the implementation of the laws, functions of individual authorities and so on. In this respect, we have a fundamental reservation to extend the competence of the SAO, we have a reservation in the sense that we also want to ensure that the SAO, with this extended competence, focuses on the state's control activity itself, evaluates regularly how the control is carried out, whether it is effective, and draws attention to cases where the audit authorities are also carrying out inefficient control activities. In this amendment, we define a significant control burden, where at the same time two or more checks of the same subject are carried out in one year, when two uncoordinated checks are carried out simultaneously, and at the same time in the same year, for example, for municipalities which are not municipalities with extended scope, as well as for small firms where there is a fourth or any further control of the entity in the same calendar year. In such a case, there is a significant control burden, and in such a case the amendment of the law introduces an obligation for the control authorities to justify their control intervention and also to submit their justifications to the audited authority. It doesn't lead to us wanting to dictate and determine when the check isn't due. We want to contribute to the fact that the Czech state is also able to step on the brakes in this area of bureaucracy and show when this control no longer leads to greater efficiency, but instead aims to weaken the performance of, for example, individual municipal authorities or small private companies. The principle is the creation of a system of public administration information system controls, where control authorities will insert their control plans and plans, and of course they will also have to check before each inspection carried out, whether there really is no other control or even more control at the same time with the entity, and whether, for example, for a small municipality that has even a loose mayor, four other bodies were no longer in that year and did not burden the municipality in such a way that, in the end, instead of real control and effective intervention, there is a step that, on the contrary, weakens any effect of the control. We therefore aim to improve the system of controls in the Czech Republic as well, to reduce double, triple and otherwise enhanced controls, to make order in what other states are also monitoring, so that the control system simply works well, not excessively, but efficiently and correctly where it is absolutely necessary. In order for controls to have an appropriate effect and not to fail to have an effect, an organisation of monitoring efficiency is essential. What the Czech Republic suffers from, when it really increases, doubles, triples occur, harms things, we want to prevent this. Thank you very much for your attention. In a detailed debate, I will read this amendment, as well as one amendment to the extent of the persons audited. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u17	Thank you, Mr Martin Kupek. This has been the last one entered into the general debate so far. I'm asking if anyone is still reporting for the general debate. This is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I ask if there is interest in the final words after the general debate. Yes, the rapporteur of the Kubíček Audit Committee. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u18	Thank you for the floor. I'd just like to go back to the Tomio Okamura show. I don't think the only party here that would like to extend the powers of the SAO is the SPD. However, this law is strange because it must also be linked to the amendment of the Constitution, and for that we need a certain number of Members or Senators in both chambers, so we have had to compromise. And, of course, the members of the SPD are in the control committee, and they'll probably confirm that it was very reasonable, even with the gnashing of their teeth, because the concessions weren't doing very well. But if we're going to create something that's going to work - and I'm just pointing out one more thing so that somebody doesn't confuse SAO control with Financial Administration, Taxpayers and so on. The SAO actually controls the good handling of the funds, but it also gives the so-called. Feedback for other organizations, so there won't be any mistakes. The SAO shouldn't be a scarecrow. You can't tell new subjects who are going to check the SAO that it's there to expose the robbery, etc. I don't think so. Recently we had SAO control in the village, which controlled the grant for the assignment of small electric buses, and found no error, although the controllers were very tough and had a number of questions. But they have it right, because it's kind of a methodology for those other people who are going to continue to make no single mistakes. I will give an example here, which has succeeded at the Supreme Audit Office in Slovakia, which has found shortcomings in the state's management of individual municipalities, and has brought additional money into the budget of those municipalities. So in this form, yes, so that the SAO would be a helper, not a scarecrow. But let's not be scared by the fact that it's tax, accounting, and I don't know what kind of control to find a mistake. That would be very sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u19	Thank you for the final words of the rapporteur. More? So we are outside the debate, but, Madam Secretary, you want to take advantage of the priority right, so of course you have the opportunity to speak, unless the Minister of Justice wants to take the final floor first. She doesn't check in. [[Minister of Justice: I prefer the Minister.]] Yes, I got it right. In that case, with priority rights, Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Vice Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I'm sorry, I flew in from Brussels. I wish you all the best of luck and health for the new year, because I see you here for the first time in the new year, I look forward to working with you, whatever side of this room you're sitting on. I would like to respond to Mr Kupka's amendment, and I would like to say that I strongly disagree with the proposed amendment to Act 280/2009 Coll., the Tax Code. I assume that we will continue to debate this, but I would like to point out that it is not clear whether the author of this amendment is aware of the significant negative impact that this proposal would have had. First of all, it is an unprecedented and non-systemic intervention in tax confidentiality, when data from the tax management of individual entities are to be de facto disclosed through a public registering system available to the public. This would mean denying tax confidentiality, which is an essential part of tax law not only in our country but also abroad. Moreover, this would be a completely disproportionate intervention in the constitutional order guaranteed by the fundamental rights of individuals, in particular the right to privacy. This would significantly affect competitive relations between individual entities, as the disclosure of information obtained by the tax administrator could lead in a number of cases to a worse position on the market. This would result in an adverse impact on the principle of fiscal neutrality, where controlled tax entities would find themselves at a significant disadvantage against entities that are not controlled at the time. The scope of the published information should then probably be laid down under the law, the decree of the Ministry of Finance, which increases the unconstitution of the entire measure. The issue of the protection of personal data of controlled persons, official persons, employees is also not addressed in any way independently of the question of tax confidentiality. [[16.30 hours]] A completely fundamental and negative impact would be to limit the possibility of initiating tax control when the so-called "tax control" arises. significant control burden. This would make it impossible to carry out a control activity where other public authorities control an entirely different area, not related to the previous one, is carried out. The petitioner does not seem to realise that a number of tax entities, typically entrepreneurs, are obliged to have several types of taxes at the same time, with part of these taxes having a tax period of less than a calendar year, e.g. calendar month - VAT, excise duties - and the logical consequence is that one tax entity is subject to several tax proceedings every year, each of which generates a potential need for control, but they are not in conflict with each other because each of them relates to a different tax procedure. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] A typical example is value added tax, where each month it is necessary to examine in the order of thirty days and decide whether it can be -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u21	Madam Vice-President of the Government, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace! If you are discussing a subject other than the amendment to the Supreme Audit Office Act, it is crucially in the foyer. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u22	A typical example is value added tax, where each month it is necessary to examine in the order of thirty days and decide whether an excessive deduction can be paid or a control procedure is to be initiated. The co-operation of more non-competing tax controls for different tax periods or different taxes is therefore neither exceptional nor non-systemic. Any administrative restriction or even obstacle to the control procedure will mean the difficult manageability of this tax and a factual invitation for people who may not have any clean intentions, which, on the contrary, are succeeding due to the recent inspection report. So I believe that this is not the intention of the petitioner in any way. The proposal in relation to the administration of taxes completely disregards the nature of the control of the fulfilment of obligations in the tax field, which is completely different from those in other areas of the exercise of public authority. The tax administration is generally based on the fact that the tax entity has an obligation to confirm the tax and, at the same time, it is burdened by the burden of proof of that tax. The whole process of determining the tax, respectively. its administration is based on the co-operation of the tax entity and the tax administrator, where both parties are interested in achieving the result in the form of a proper tax determination. Part of this process is the implementation of the control activity, when its large percentage immediately responds to the previous activity of the tax entity. Typically follow-up e.g. to submit a tax return, if applicable. relates to the previous requirement of a tax entity, typically a control activity related to the exercise of the right to tax deduction. Thus, the tax administration cannot be applied to a lay-understand view, according to which the state authorities only control independently the activity of entrepreneurs and other entities from their own activities. It should also be noted in practical terms that a number of steps taken to initiate, process and end tax control are dependent on the specific development of the procedure and the responses of the audited entity. Therefore, the principle cannot predict whether and when a specific tax control will be able to initiate or terminate, so that the requirement to publish the date of the start of the check - because the tax control, according to the tax office, is only initiated by the effective start of the control activity, with the cooperation of the controlled entity, which may not always occur. The process of initiating tax control can therefore extend to a relatively long period of time. In assessing the effects of the measure, it should be borne in mind that the tax control process does not apply only to taxes in a narrower sense. It is therefore used in the control of customs duties, fees and other similar cash transactions, as well as in the case of checks on compliance with budgetary discipline. The administrative impact on individual tax authorities will be significant and in many cases would lead to resignation of control activities - we are also talking about municipalities, we are not just talking about tax authorities, as we know them - circumvention of the tax control institute, etc. Such a concept of controls would prevent the rapid termination or even the impossibility of carrying out control activities effectively at all. This fundamental change is proposed without discussion with the parties concerned, in addition to the amendment to the legislation, which is almost unrelated to the tax area. Even when aware of the limited possibility of opposition parties to participate in the legislative process of government bills, such a form of parliamentary initiative cannot be regarded as systemic or transparent, rather, its impact is directed at virtually every person in domestic jurisdiction. The text paragrafo of the text itself must also be rejected by legislative means. For one thing, it is necessary to draw attention to the conflict with the draft amendment to the Tax Code, House press 580, which intervenes in the same provision and changes the number of paragraphs. Critically, it is also possible to assess the way in which reference is made to other legislation, the rules of control and its similar use. Such a method of standard formation not only contradicts the way in which the tax rules are designed, but certainly does not contribute to clarity and clarity of regulations. In an inappropriate manner, authorisation (k) of the decree is standardised, etc. I have a whole series of technical comments, but what I have said so far is important to me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u23	This was a performance with the preferential right of Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. So now we're going back to the protocol to see if she's interested in the final word of the Minister of Justice. It's not like that. In that case, we begin the debate in detail and there is... [[Objection.]] So, by speaking to the Minister of Finance, we have opened the debate and I would like to add that Martin Kupka has signed up for this debate, which was opened by the Vice-President of the Government, and the second one is Marek Benda. So we're going back to the general debate, and Martin Kupka has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u24	Madam Secretary, I regret that you have probably not read the final amendment because you are responding to something that is simply not mentioned in it. I understand you're resisting the removal of your kneeling techniques on businessmen, but where we're going is really making control more effective. There is no way that we are going to restrict or cripple the state's activities. We are heading to those parts where the control, on the contrary, is actually aimed at weakening its own official performance or the activities of individual companies. We also do not say, and we have tried to avoid this in order to reduce the effectiveness of control, and in this respect, the Supreme Audit Office has the authority to really data that does not endanger the control activity, the purpose of the control, and to publish only those data that really should not jeopardise the control activity. In this regard, I consider the reservation actually to be taken into account. The amendment does not present such a thing, nothing like this will happen there. We are heading to ensure that really repeated checks, especially by smaller entities, smaller municipalities and cities, and, of course, the smallest business entities are not overwhelmed by control over the bearable possible measure, with the fact that - to be clear, in this case, this is more about a reasonable soft reduction in the senseless control activity, where the control authorities, which are given to the competent body, even in the regime of the significant control burden, so all the law requires them to do is to justify their intervention properly and submit to the controlled body why they are going there at that time. There is certainly no crippling of the control activity, as the Minister suggested, but a proper, correct restriction on the excessive activity, which is not desirable and certainly not desirable in terms of the efficiency of the state's operation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u25	Thank you, Mr Martin Kupek. And now, in the general debate, Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u26	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Ladies and Gentlemen, I have also applied in response to the speech by the Vice Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. It seemed like a lot of bureaucratic material they presented to me. But she's talking here, so let's start by saying that even if the officials write it to her... [[16.40 hours]] First of all, I would say that there have been, like, eight years here, attempts to extend the authority of the Supreme Audit Office, and about nine years of pressure on the Ministry of Finance, respectively. The Home Office in agreement to finally make some sort of order in control. Over the years, nothing has happened, and the only thing that ministers can write again, say: those Members are idiots, they can't write it down, they have to do it differently, more scientific, smarter, wiser, and we would, of course, know it, only that we will never do it. And now it doesn't really matter which government it is, it's not even a reservation to this government, it's just a structural approach by the ministries: we're not going to let ourselves talk about how we're going to control it. Other reservations that have gone away there, such as the submission of a tax code, which is not even before the first reading, where the ministerial servants will write something again and say: the amendment that is submitted is not in line with this. I find that absolutely smiling and bizarre, what they really do is how it is to try to manipulate legislation in this country. So, yes, if the government comes up with a project of what to do with the control burden, what to do with the municipalities that complain that in a year they have seven checks on the same thing we have to do with entrepreneurs. But okay, maybe sometimes it's on purpose, the kneeling that Martin here was talking about, but in a number of cases, it's just public authorities saying, we're doing nothing but filling out some state officials' control protocols. And by the way, the Supreme Audit Office Act is extending this authority to self-government, which is where the problem needs to be addressed most. He's not going to most private subjects anyway. If the government came up with that, she said yes, we'd make some sort of order... I understand that two things can be that there can be special health control and especially financial control. But there can't be a five-time management check, where one is from the county office, one is from the Financial Directorate, one is from the subsidy program, each will say something different. What are these mayors supposed to do about it? So making excuses for making something better when we're not able to present it... The attempt made by Martin Kupka, but in cooperation with us others, says that the Supreme Audit Office should have the power to monitor the number of checks that are taking place, and it has the authority, just as it has today, to draw attention to where it feels that there are improper state finances, or where they may be wasted. He can't punish anyone. He's just supplying information to the sněmovna: beware of this, here they throw away unnecessary money for building roads or unnecessary money for IT systems, take better care of it. And that's what we imagine he should be doing in the controls. That he should give information every once in a while: there are unnecessary checks that do not bring anything useful, but only annoy those operators on the market. And against this effort, of course, the Ministry of Finance will speak out. And I think the performance is very unfortunate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u27	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Now, Mr Marek the Výborný. We are still in the reopened general debate. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u28	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, I, too, wish the Minister all the best for the new year. And I may have an understanding of how she responded to our joint amendment because she herself said that she flew out of a foreign business trip a while ago. However, it is obvious, Madam Secretary, that the reaction was to an intermediate that did not arrive in the finals. And if you look carefully at the amendment by Martin Kupka, Vít Rakušan, my person and Marek Benda, you will find that there really is nothing that has been criticized by you here. Indeed, the only thing in which the tax rules are regulated is that the tax administrator is obliged to verify, prior to the commencement of the tax control, in the records of checks that there is no significant control burden and at the same time to record the control itself in the records of checks. So this is really about efficiency. And, of course, when we look at the control system, what we want to achieve is that there is no unnecessary repetition, a duplication of controls. I suppose it is also in the spirit of what your government is asserting - that the control activity that is important should be as effective as possible, but at the same time it does not become something that is unnecessary by over-bullying, or if you want to pester those controlled people, because in that sense, of course, the control activity would not meet the objectives and the effect it is supposed to have. So I believe that your officials, your ministry in this sense, will understand the final wording of our amendment and join in supporting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u29	Thank you, Mr Excellent. Mr Vít Rakušan is now on the list. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, just a brief reaction from the purely mayor's perspective. Across the political spectrum, we have here, whether former or current mayors, mayors of cities and municipalities of various sizes, and each of you, as an MP, surely experienced the lamentation of one of the mayors in his office, that the municipalities are actually burdened with many times excessive checks and that it actually happens that at the same time, even two checks will appear in the same small village, and the municipality is paralyzed in its normal activity, which it is intended to carry out for the citizens of the municipality, the city in question. The amendment to this law, with which we come, actually changes the view of the SAO. We understood the SAO as the body, which simply comes only with the control activity itself, and now has one very important role to play, and that is the role of the body, which controls what checks are going on in the given municipality and city, if they are not running at the same time, and the SAO simply guarantees that the municipalities and cities, as well as entrepreneurs, controlled persons, are not burdened with excessive checks at the same time and at the same time. And that, in itself, creates the atmosphere that we want to properly control in our country, how public funds are handled, but at the same time, there are no self-serving controls that are taking place simply because the control body needs to report that it has checked someone at that particular time of the year. At that point, the SAO becomes the guarantor of expertise, the guarantor of proper control and also the guarantor of proper justification for the control, and it is really only here and only our ambitions - not to avoid checks, but to ensure that the checks are properly conducted, that there is a certain pressure on the control authorities of various types, and that there is sufficient record of the obligation that the inspection is being carried out, that there are no duplications and checks at the same time at the same place. That's all. And this proposal, I think, is a legislative and legally very pure solution, and I do not fully understand the reservations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u31	I thank Mr Rakušan and continue the general debate with another speech by Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So less official. Totally half-pathic. On 1 January 2016, we introduced, approved by this Chamber of Deputies, inspection reports. On 1 December 2016, the first EET wave came into effect, then the second one, now we have a third, fourth one. In that time, the number of tax checks - and please, I'm only talking about tax checks, not to mention any other checks - has decreased by 15 grand, roughly, I don't have statistics now, but I have it in my head, and the effectiveness of the survey has risen. What is the result? That the Financial Administration carries out tax controls based on analysts. The analytical data at the analytical centre, where it is collected, where it is evaluated by about 20 NBU officials, is evaluated, and aggregated data are sent to the Republic by financial administrations, so, in fact, the control, some of the problems that need to be checked are falling out of the analytical activity. It's strictly confidential. No one can know about this except the competent staff of the Financial Administration. [[16.50 hours]] So what registry? What entrance? This means that when the analyst analyzes that some area needs to be checked, and I say, 15,000 are down in three years, even as a result of these measures. They don't bother decent tax entities because they go to controls on purpose. So how could a registry like this, where we break all tax confidentiality, which basically strictly protects secrets, including that information, so we break it with that register, and that means that by looking into that register, the clerk won't act where he has to do it? That's all I wanted to say. Now I'm saying it half-pathically.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u33	Thank you. Another colleague Martin Kupka. We are still in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u34	Just for refills. But the amendment does not bring anything like what the Minister said. This should not result in the fact that if the check is appropriate and there is a reason for it, it should not be carried out. Only if it is really a repeated inspection of, for example, the same subject or an uncoordinated current control of the same entity, so that it needs to be justified. Nothing else, nothing more, nothing less. And, yes, we've modified the text of the proposal so that it can't be compromised in any way, even if it's supposed to be appropriate discretion, it's supposed to be hidden. There's no such thing. Simply put, yes, we're against purposely cursing, that shouldn't happen. And this, by the way, is also one of the things that will be able to prevent it. Our goal is to ensure that the controls are carried out efficiently, that they have their proper meaning. And the point is that either those who have passed the law or simply introduce proper accounting and proper procedures, as appropriate and appropriate, in the case of municipalities alone. This is intended to ensure that the Czech Republic does not overwhelm itself with an uncoordinated mess of controls that ultimately lead to nothing. Repeatedly, I dare say, almost all the subjects called for less bureaucracy, nonsensical controls, burdening them where it wasn't appropriate. We came up with an option that solves it. It solves with a tool that is reasonable, which is soft. And suddenly, the Finance Minister is answering, who, by many other statements, should actually be doing something like this, and he says it's wrong that we shouldn't do it. So I would just like to ask if you and your colleagues can read the amendment in detail, because there is really nothing there about such an intervention, for example, where the control will be devalued by publication or it will interfere with its purpose. There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u35	Thank you, Mr Kupek. This was the last one entered into the general debate. I ask again, then, if anyone is still applying, so that I can conclude the general debate. So I close it when no one checks in, and I ask again about the final words. No, Madam Secretary, neither does the rapporteur. We can move on to the debate in detail. And I note that in the general debate, Mr Vácha announced that he was withdrawing his application from the detailed debate. We can therefore start with Mr Martin Kupka's application. Radim Fiala will be ready. You have the floor in a detailed debate, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u36	So I would like to read the proposed amendment under which my signed colleague, Mr Marek, is Výborný, Vít Rakušan and Marek Benda. He's got 4162 in his system. Furthermore, I would like to read a small amendment number 4170, which exempts municipalities with extended scope from the heading of the listed persons, to which the SAO's competence extends. Thank you very much. And the number of the second amendment is 4170.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u37	Okay. Thank you, Mr Martin Kupek. Now in a detailed debate, Mr Radim Fiala. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u38	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me read the amendment, which I will then briefly justify. We in the SPD would like the Supreme Audit Office to be subject of control, of course, to cities and municipalities. So, of course, my proposal is actually going back to city control and community control. And, of course, he's also counting on extending the number of colleges from 15 to 17. Let me read it: 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Point 5 of Section 3a (1) In Section 3a, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (b) points 4 to 11 are referred to as points 3 to 10. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the Point 5 of Section 3a (1) is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (b) point 8 shall be deleted. In Section 3a, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (b) points 9 and 10 shall be referred to as points 8 and 9. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 the first sentence of the 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The second sentence of the 5. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European In Article 12, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 "15' is replaced by "17'.". Points 7 to 9 are referred to as points 8 to 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-21-ps2017-040-01-006-006.u39	I thank Mr Radim Fial. This was the last one entered into a detailed debate. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. In a detailed debate, there was no proposal that we could vote on. I am still asking about the final words after a detailed debate. Neither the Minister nor the rapporteur. In that case, I can end the second reading of this proposal. Thank you, Minister, thank you to the rapporteurs and I finish this point. Before we go any further, I'm stating an apology. From 17:00 to 19:00 for family reasons, Mr. Pavel Staněk apologizes. The next point in our negotiations is
