ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-001-291.u1	291. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 40th session of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of 33 responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. We have 25 more responses to the written interpelations to discuss today. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its interpellation and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. [[9.10 hours]] And we will now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. The first is an interpelation at the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček. He replied to Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's interview on the alleged sale of the spa house Mercur in Mariánské Lázně. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 611. The discussion of this response was interrupted in the presence of the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček. As Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček is excused within 10 hours, he is not present at the moment to discuss this interpellation, his interpelation is interrupted again into his presence. Another interpelation is an interpellation to the Prime Minister. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Miroslav Grebeníček's interpelation on the steps and measures by which the Prime Minister and the Government have so far responded and which the Cabinet prepares in connection with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 6 June 2019 by which the House asked the Government to propose an effective amendment to criminal law so that the crimes caused by privatisation can be further prosecuted and punished in order to avoid their limitation, including an assessment of whether there has been a situation at a certain time when the limitation period could not even run. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 659. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Since Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is not present and is duly excused, this interpelation is postponed again to his presence. [[A Member of Grebeníček is reporting for the floor.]] Mr. Grebeníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-001-291.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yes, we have adopted a resolution which actually states that if the Prime Minister is not present, my intervention will be interrupted. I would like to ask you to revisit this resolution, given that the Prime Minister is exposed to many parts, so perhaps we could discuss this without his presence. Unless, of course, you decide in the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-001-291.u3	Okay, I'll put you to a vote on this motion. I'll call the MPs. I think that the number is stable, so we will vote on the revision of the resolution of interpelation to the Prime Minister by Mr Miroslav Grebeníček, that we can discuss this interpelation even without the presence of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 309. 90 Members and Members are registered, for 55, against no one, and 35 are held up. The motion was accepted. I am therefore initiating a debate on this interpelation. Mr Grebeníček is registered. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-001-291.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Not so long ago, at the 35th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I proposed the inclusion of a new item entitled Interim Report by the Prime Minister on the steps taken and measures taken by the Government to implement the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the crimes of privatisation. I pointed out that the government was called upon to take action at the 30th meeting of 6 June 2019 when the House adopted the above-mentioned resolution based on the starting point, in which the Chamber of Deputies stated that a large number of excesses, errors and crimes occurred during the privatisation of state property between 1992 and 2005, which caused damage to property in hundreds of billions of crowns to the Czech Republic and which had not yet been resolved by the governments and their consequences. In this resolution, the House also asked the Government for legislative action, i.e. that the Government should propose an effective amendment to criminal law so that the crimes caused in privatisation can be prosecuted further and punished so as not to delay them, including an assessment of whether there were situations in which the limitation period could not even run. Ladies and gentlemen, however, with a proposal to include this issue in our 35th meeting, I failed, which certainly surprised me. Among other things, because half a year has passed since the House's resolution was adopted, long enough for us to receive information from the Prime Minister on how he and the Government are dealing with the request of the Chamber of Deputies and whether there is a delay in such a serious matter or even deliberate blocking of what the House of Government has asked for. The very facts that led me to decide to address the Prime Minister by means of a written interview. I received from the Prime Minister, as it is clear from his reply, a statement that the government de facto does not respond to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies and that it does not and will do absolutely nothing in this matter, with arguments more than evasive ones. I find such resignation, or even the resistance of the Prime Minister and the government completely unacceptable. I dare say that the Republic, its citizens, who have suffered damage in the hundreds of billions of crowns through privatization crimes and gross misconduct of particular high civil servants, expect from the cabinet, which is cursed by wanting to defend their interests, something entirely different from phrases and questionable claims that no legislative activity is supposed to be possible or appropriate. And it's not just cases where privatized businesses and state property haven't been paid. The range of crimes and fraud carried out by state property and the resources of businesses for dubious acquirers and accounts is far, far, wide. In some cases, it has been almost 30 years since citizens and the state have been cheated and robbed by strange privatizers and sloppy or corrupt officials. Some of the so-called new elite grew out of the scams and thefts. But he also grew up and strengthened the corrupt style of governance and the system of political and economic corruption. There have been close links between specific parties and their godfathers and sponsors. [[9.20 hours]] It is political corruption, godfather's ties and strange sponsorship affairs that can be one of the explanations for the fact that past governments have done almost nothing in this corruption system to ensure that effective legislative measures are needed and that the state begins to severely prosecute major economic crime, including privatization fraud, in time. In some cases, justice was almost helpless in the face of privatization crimes, fraud, and theft of state, municipal and private property. But in many cases - and this is a public secret - then governments did not defend the citizens and interests of the Republic. The parliamentary majority adopted leaky laws that allowed privatization crimes and other major economic crime. And it's more than likely that the police and prosecutors were failing. One can only guess when blindness and failure were said to be for good reasons and when it was only an existential fear of punishment for daring to do their job well. In many cases, just under the pressure of politics and various godfathers and sponsors, the state failed. There was a situation where justice, police and prosecutors were afraid to act in favour of the law and to save and prosecute criminals and their helpers and supporters established in the authorities. I would therefore like to remind you that democracy is not the freedom of the chosen to rob the Republic and citizens, and that the current impunity of privatization thieves, corrupters and fraudsters is a clear denial of democracy. The investigation of these crimes is therefore a requirement of a fair and fully democratic nature. Papalases and speculators who have benefited and benefited from fraud and crime are economically, politically and medialy active. Talking about threatening democracy and raising a stick of media campaigns, beating on the heads of cheated and robbed citizens and any uncomfortable person who raises their voice. Ladies and gentlemen, I have recently studied Prime Minister Babiš's response to Mr Jiří Valenta's oral interview, from which I would like to quote: The coupon, the theft of the century, 600 billion, the tunneling of banks and their subsequent remediation of 338 billion, light fuel oils 100 billion, privatization funds 50 billion. Two thousand billion away, at today's prices of 5,000 billion. At the same time, the Prime Minister said it was a matter of will if anyone wanted to investigate. It was a gang before us. Someone broke up our farm. So much for Prime Minister Babiš. It is clear from his statement that Andrej Babiš lacks the awareness that the Czech Republic and most Czech citizens were robbed of tunneling and fraud on an incredible scale, measured at today's prices by several trillion crowns. I can also agree with the Prime Minister that the impunity of the perpetrators and the unenforceability of the stolen funds and property of the state is linked to the fact that there was a group that was not interested in investigating privatisation crimes and that the stolen funds were returned to the state and citizens. Sure, when it's late for the crime scene, the tracks are already jammed, and the money is being transferred to offshore accounts. It will not always succeed in such a hussarian piece as blocking 12 billion from privatization of Mostecký coal in Swiss accounts. Only the bad loans of the Investment and Postal Bank, which ended up in forced administration in 2000, amounted to 170 billion. Crowns. Not only banks and funds, but also privatized companies, state-controlled companies, state-owned companies, state-owned companies, and even cities controlled by companies remained behind. While not all were stealing, almost all who caused the damage to the state were forgiven for their sins. According to the November 2003 SAO report, the damage suffered by the State was recovered only in 0.4 percent of the cases at the time, which represented one recovery per 250 case. The dedication claims that not only the Civil Democratic Party but also some other political groups are responsible for the political responsibility for the loss of privatisation. It is not surprising that it was the ODS that was in the vote on the crimes of privatisation against the resolution adopted and the others just abstained. Yes, specific political parties and groups are opposed to the adoption of effective measures and the effective investigation, as well as to the consistent recovery of damages and to the clarification of the responsibility of specific persons. I also openly declare that I expected something from Andrej Babiš other than resignation or resistance to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. And so I will at least ask him remotely, and he will certainly get to know my speech: am I to understand your position so, Prime Minister, that those who are not interested in effective investigation and punishment of privatization crimes and fraud include not only those who did not support the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, but also the current government headed by the Prime Minister and the responsible Minister of Justice? And two more final remarks. No, I really do not understand the scandalous attitude of the officials of the Ministry of Justice, which the Prime Minister referred to recently, and who feel that privatization crimes, all those gigantic frauds and tunnels are supposedly not so serious as to justify their inclusion in the category of non-limitable crimes. Those of the same who play to the indispensability of alleged rights and property claims of traitors of the Republic, Nazis and collaborators affected by the decrees of the President of the Republic of Beneš, approved by the National Assembly, are now telling citizens that we are supposed to accept the tunneling of banks, campers, businesses and funds, including OKD, because there is nothing we can do. They say these crimes against the Republic and the citizens are being silenced. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, it is said that this is not murders that are suspended after 30 years, and in the event of non-limiting privatization crimes, it would be said that there would be a preference of economic state interest over the interest in the protection of human life. What can I say? Maybe it's just that on my part, somehow, that's it. I hope not only Prime Minister Andrej Babiš will understand me, but also muž of Rio, blbec of Xenemünde or Pepa of Hong Kong. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-001-291.u5	Thank you. Members of Valenta and Vice-President Filip are enrolled in the debate. I will read the apology before I give the floor to Mr Valent. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková apologizes for this morning's meeting, within 10 hours for working reasons, Mr Radek Koten today from 9.30 to 12 hours for work reasons, Mr Marek Benda until 11 o'clock for work reasons, President Vondráček, I have already read this apology, today, for work reasons, Mrs Golasowská until 12 o'clock for work reasons, Mrs Matušovská today, for the whole day of the hearing, for personal reasons, and Mr Jan Pošvář from 9 to 9.20 o'clock for personal reasons. I ask Mr Valenta to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-001-291.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me in a way follow up on my colleague Grebeníček and remind our government through his now-intermediated, although absent, chairman of some other facts that should help start the catharsis process of our society from a time when state property was stolen in large silence, or even with the active cooperation of some important politicians. To begin with, it must be objectively admitted that at least some thieves, in today's cunning jargon advocates of privatization tax on the democratization of society, have been brought to justice. One of the most loud cases is the sale of Unipetrol, OKD, Mostecké coal company or Rakony. The repeated privatisation of Unipetrol, since 2005 part of the Polish PKN Orlen, has been brought before the Czech and Polish Parliament's commission of inquiry. But the cases that came before the jurisdiction of the court and where the judge subsequently defined the criminal activity were, in fact, minimal. Ladies and gentlemen, today it is no longer clear that the property of our country has been divided, for the lack of clear or purposeless legislative rules, by a group of powerful. The lack of morality of some was more than obvious, and even today there is no need to argue with this fact. And it's definitely not just employee flats that are purposefully glued to the OKD package. Many citizens, not only in the 1990s, were exposed to completely impunity and inexcusable impostors who, like vultures, fell on that politically so despised property from the era of real socialism. And unfortunately, I must say that even the Czech House, which should be the guarantor of justice and equality, under the influence of those who were at least politically responsible for privatization iniquities, could not defend the interests of their citizens. For example, in 2006 The Chamber of Deputies falsely stated that the government did not make any mistakes in selling state property. I believe, at least according to the irreconcilable appearance of Prime Minister Babiš on this issue, that the House resolution is in clear contradiction with the current position of the government, and even, as we already know, with the House resolution recently adopted. And it is completely indifferent that, according to the interpretation of the law for executives, it is not entirely binding. On the other hand, I believe, Mr. Prime Minister, that you will actually keep what you promised me during the oral interpellation, which was also mentioned here by colleague Grebeníček, in November last year. I quote: "You don't have to convince me, I would never go into politics if the traditional demo block worked and didn't decimate our economy. Well, I'm certainly not interested in hiding anything or defending anything. Definitely not." End of quote. Grebeníček addition to the correlation with the cases of the so-called large privatisation, stolen, or in quotation marks, the government of ODS, ODA and KDU-ČSL has a certain link, and no flattering, and as you yourself have mentioned, Prime Minister, as well as the privatisation of the coupon, another unbridled thief. Not only do I consider this to be as great an injustice as other, then cunningly applied forms of transfer of multibillion-dollar state property to individuals and to major companies of that time related party. More specifically, the economic-political mafia, whose members and some activities are flashing into public awareness today. The public knows very well which political entities today have the very inherited pro-demonstral and pro-corruption potential. Surely we all know that the symbol of coupon privatization, this other limpensity, has become businessman Viktor the Kožený and its founded Harvard funds. And it is in this example that we can also illustrate that not everything that smells of a dollar, an American one, must necessarily carry benefits or added value with it, if you will, for honest individuals or society. And so in this respect, just a reminder for the younger generation or some intentional unmemory of the time recently past. Named Kožený, a shining symbol of capitalism, as well as today's right-wing praiseworthy and supposedly successful coupon privatization, a path leading to freedom, was condemned in 2010 for multibillion-dollar fraud. But even thanks to the incredible laxity of our authorities, let us ask whether he knew anything about anyone or which politicians he was connected to, he still lives happily, for the money of all of us in the Bahamas. Even so, ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of post-November justice may sometimes look like. But kuponový privatization affected our state economy in other ways. Another major and unforgivable mistake, since it had already been made, was that it did not bring sufficient development capital into the rapidly privatized businesses, thus not secured by the relevant law. Such affected enterprises were artificially forced into debt with banks, but naturally at the same time they were not able to repay the loans granted. And they were only waiting for them to find themselves in serious sales and manufacturing difficulties. For example, the President of the Czech Republic, Miloš Zeman, mentioned this in the magazine Economist in 1999. After all, the absence of the necessary strong legal framework, and let us ask why and because of whom he was accidentally absent, has led to the embezzlements of all kinds, for example, the economist Jan Švejnar, among other things the candidate for president of the Czech Republic, otherwise also the director of the Center for Global Economic Policy at Columbia University. And another accompanying and very cunningly realized aspect of some of the still uncritically praised privatisation, in addition to the fact that it took all Czech citizens by billions of crowns, was that apart from these thefts of state property, the cheap right-wing privatizers could not generate, for a large part of the time functioning companies, a capable state administrator. A third of such managerially neglected businesses then fell into bankruptcy and quite naturally went bankrupt. Even for this laxity, incompetence, or in my opinion, the intention should be to at least morally condemn the culprits at the time, when it is no longer possible to punish them by law today. And many gangs still have them among themselves, or at least profit from their material or other support. You see, ladies and gentlemen, this time is not so far away. And when a communist may virtually every day demand an apology for acts that many of us have never committed, but have not experienced personally, it would also be a matter of fact to draw the attention of those accomplices of privatization scoundrels from their own ranks. Our esteemed colleagues, we really want nothing more than for the government to be actively concerned with this issue of fraud and dusty thieves of various kinds - and the proper official initiative, that is, the House's resolution, as I have already said, exists - at least where it is still legally possible, when the question of the indiscretion of privatization crimes has already been removed from the table. In doing so, and I have also pointed out, this was the largest theft of state property for the benefit of individuals in the history of our country, across all political systems. And that's completely out of the question. Prime Minister Babiš, you must remember well that 106 Members and Members voted in favour of resolution 653. It is therefore not possible to dismiss the entire case by letter to the Presidents of the Members' Clubs that, in fact, nothing can be done, but, in a populist or a little opportunistic way, to report to the bearing thesis that the thefts actually took place to an enormous extent during the privatisation process in the 1990s and our state was actually shaved to the bone. The impact of privatization processes, whether it was the case of the so-called large or the so-called coupon privatisation, however, apart from the period's massive robbery of citizens into the economy and international investment of the Czech Republic, is unfortunately also happening today, and they are often very serious and continue to harm all of us. [[9.40 hours]] For your information, I can give you an example when two years ago, Skoda Transportation wanted to buy the Chinese company Railway Rolling Stock Corporation, and the Číňan, business-wise completely rationally wanted the then Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek to approve the government's privatisation of this company in an indisputable way. But Minister Mládek had to say no. And let us not speculate on the reason why he rejected this request. According to his statement, he couldn't have done what he was threatened with. He said that a lawyer with close ties to Prime Minister Sobotka asked for confirmation of the purity of privatization, probably Mr Pokorný. Similarly, countless reminiscences on the course of the privatization era can be stated. Even for these reasons, although already privatized gigantic state property is unfortunately forever awkward for the citizens of this country, let us at least do what can be done to remedy this situation. And to that, I call on you personally, absent Prime Minister, and your government, at least in this kind of mediated way. There is simply no way to throw over the fundamental problems associated with the administration's performance and to be held responsible for their failure to address Members. The sum of the sum, ladies and gentlemen, we really should move forward and admit that the crimes or immorality during privatization were so much that I would not hesitate to label it completely as a planned and realized crime against the inhabitants of this country, for the benefit of individuals and the artfully created economic-political mafia. You know, in 1998, for example, when the Social Democrats won the election, their main punch slogans were the expression of Miloš Zeman about the burned country and the necessity of carrying out the action Clean hands. Then why didn't this happen? The criminalisation of the privatisation process is often used in your speeches by you too, Mr. Representing Prime Minister. And in your case, citizens can hear it from the polls. So please do it already. I believe you're not just always trying to fool voters. Even their protagonist Tomáš Ježek and, indirectly, Jan Stráský mentioned excesses, mistakes, but also the crimes of privatization, from which one right-wing citizen of this country has doubts about it. So I agree with the view that denying clear facts illustrate that there have been crimes with billions of damage, only a person who, for some reason, refuses to accept reality can now do so. The ODS election ex-manager Petr Havlík even prepared a report in 1993 for Václav Klaus, where he very faithfully described the connection of his party to suspicious sources of income and some people, but Klaus said that there was nothing to be done about it... But it could be done, then naturally better than today. But I personally believe that even many years after that, there is still a lot to be done - at least some necessary steps - possible. For the nation to see that his government, too, has good will, and the rule of law, morality and justice are not merely empty terms for her. But that's something you'd have to want. Even then was more interested in sponsored dinner with the chairman of the ODS. And the banks, instead of working properly for the citizens, also sponsored this party in an unbiased way. However, I believe that the time has already progressed in this regard and that instead of such round dinners, Prime Minister, you will begin to defend the interests of our citizens. And I'm sorry, hundreds of billions of crowns stolen are definitely no small thing. The time has also progressed in that it was not allowed to be a subject at the time, everything seemed normal and fine, and opponents of this organized theft of state property were given away various ostracizing, especially then communist stickers. However, the employees of those privatized businesses were often well aware of fraudulent privatisations. Others knew it from their friends and relatives, but everyone was afraid of public dehoness, attacks on themselves and their family, so everyone preferred to act like they couldn't see or hear. Mr Prime Minister, for the time being, I will no longer be active in my assessment of your failure to comply with House No. 653 proceed. I have tried to remind you in this mediated form that you should not just do what you want as head of executives, but sometimes also respect the voice of the citizens that we are here to convey to you as their authority. However, if you do not hear our call, we will certainly find another suitable opportunity where we will continue this topic. At the same time, I wish you a nice rest of your vacation, get your strength and courage there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-001-291.u7	Thank you. The next in line for the debate will be heard by Vice-President Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-001-291.u8	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, Mrs and gentlemen, when I mentioned this resolution, which was then adopted by the Chamber of Deputies, I was based on a factual case which I learned at any time as a Member of the Chamber of Deputies. But in the meantime, an initiative has been created since the resolution adopted, called the Manifesto of citizens damaged by the state. And this manifesto and individual items were delivered yesterday, February 12, and the Minister of Justice, and those signatories of the manifesto asked me to introduce you to this, because it concerns the unfulfilled step of the Government of the Czech Republic towards the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. You know I'm not in the habit of reading my speeches, but this time I'm gonna have to, because it's not my text, and I'm gonna express myself about the things I know. So let me quote: Repeated announcement of illegal official procedure, conscious violation of the Code of Criminal Procedure, Act on Public Prosecutors and Disdain of the Constitution of the Czech Republic by the Prosecutors, complaint for initiation of disciplinary proceedings. Madam Secretary, the above-mentioned subjects, signatories to the Manifesto of citizens damaged by the State, which was founded on 17 November 2017, are repeatedly politely warning you of the gross violations of fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Czech Constitution and the International Convention. The Czech Republic is internationally recognised as a democratic rule of law. In the rule of law, respect for fundamental human rights, including the right to property protection and the right to a fair trial, should be taken for granted. The Czech legal system is not long-term capable of ensuring the protection of private property or state property, that is the property of all citizens of the Czech Republic, which can be clearly demonstrated by the failure to prosecute persons for particularly serious crimes, including fraudulent privatisation. It is certainly not enough to describe the legal system as corrupt because it is not only a violation of impartiality but a conscious violation of the laws by civil servants who are required to ensure compliance with the laws in their activities. Breach of laws is required to investigate the Police of the Czech Republic and supervise the state prosecutors. Investigation and control bodies should reliably ensure investigations into serious property crime and organised crime. Reality and practice are just the opposite. Many members of the Police of the Czech Republic are knowingly and repeatedly violating the relevant laws, providing protection for the perpetrators and allowing them to continue the crime. The above state is repeatedly pointed out by the Minister responsible for the activities of the Ministry of the Interior and Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic. [[9.50 hours]] The correct investigation procedures of the police are legally to supervise the state's attorney's office. The D.A. has four degrees, and everyone has their leaders. The prosecutor's procedure is laid down in the Act on Public Prosecutor's Office No. 283/1993 Coll. in the basic provision of § 2 para. 2, I quote: The prosecutor's office in the exercise of its duties ensures that each of its procedures is in accordance with the law fast, professional and effective. It exercises its competence impartially, respects and protects human dignity, equality of all against the law and ensures the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms. Another binding legal standard for a prosecutor is Act No. 141/1961 Coll., Criminal Code. Attorney General doktor Pavel Zeman, who does not fulfil his legal obligations in order to protect and promote illegal official procedure. He is fully conscious in favour of the perpetrators of both serious property crime and organised crime and allows them to continue the crime. Dear Minister of Justice, we appeal to you, as we mentioned above, not only as citizens of the Czech Republic, but also as signatories to the Manifesto of citizens damaged by the state, and we ask that, by virtue of your role as political responsibility for the state of justice and, above all, the state of the prosecutor's office, you act and ensure the enforcement of law and justice for citizens of our homeland, citizens who have been damaged by the state. We will gradually introduce you to documented violations, sweeping the case under the carpet, abuse of authority. First of all, prosecutors usurp power that doesn't belong to them by law. The following signatories Miroslav Schötta, . Václav Princ we present a summary of the case, which has not only been received by the Ministry of Justice many times. Calls for the initiation of disciplinary proceedings, whether in relation to the supreme prosecutor Pavel Zeman and other prosecutors, or extensive cases of other citizens who cannot get justice, will be sent and sent to you in the past by the Institute of Alena Viásková, a registered society for the protection of human rights and freedoms. Proven illegal official procedures are presented in specific cases, as well as the impossibility of obtaining our rights and justice. The Miroslav Schötta case. He reported a break-in at the police station in 1997 to his shop in the middle of the night. The total damage was caused about 150 thousand CZK. The perpetrator himself confessed to the police and theft of money for goods of about 80,000 confirmed several witnesses. Police did not find a violation of the law in the hearing. The supervising prosecutor of the District Attorney's Office, doktor Ivana Růžičková, confirmed the accuracy of the police procedure and the stolen money in her resolution stated that these were stored in a notary safe house. Saving money to a notary wasn't true and the perpetrator kept the money for unlimited use and didn't pay for any damage, the stolen money had to be recovered by civil means. In 2001, District Attorney Mgr Pavel Zeman reviewed the case and subsequently confirmed the accuracy of the police procedure as well as the supervising prosecutor. By his illegal conduct, he provided protection to the perpetrators of property crimes and allowed them to continue their criminal activities. At the same time, he provided protection of fraud and abuse of his colleague's authority, which, despite serious criminal proceedings, was able to become a regional prosecutor and subsequently became a judge of the Regional Court. On 13. 10. 2016 Miroslav Schötta at the Police of the Czech Republic filed a notice of violation of the law on judicial executor JUDr. Vendula Flajšhansová from Pilsen, who committed fraud by issuing an auction decree for the sale of the real estate of the company in which she is an agent, for the amount of CZK 53 105 plus accessories. The announcement of the auction of the property was without legal reason and it was an apparent intention to cause damage in the order of millions of CZK, because the amount of CZK 53 105 had already been paid several months before the auction order was issued and this was confirmed in writing by the Executive Authority at that time. Only the execution costs which the Executive Authority refused to disclose in accordance with Section 88 of the Enforcement Order were not reimbursed. The estimate of the valued property was an expert BC Alena Němcová purposefully underestimated to the amount of CZK 1.2 million. The actual value exceeds CZK 6 million. Police investigators and prosecutors have repeatedly been presented with undisputed evidence of executor and forensics fraud, but no violation of the law has been found. The fraud of the executor and the forensic expert refused to investigate the police repeatedly. Following the complaint, prosecutors from the District Attorney Pavel Tolar, Antonie Zelená and from the Regional Prosecutor Augustin Hrbotický, Anna Maříková, Pavlína Kropáčková, from the Chief Prosecutor Heny Macháčková, Lenka Bradáčová, from the Supreme Prosecutor Jiří Hajda and Pavel Zeman. Those prosecutors knowingly provided the protection and support of the proven crime of an executor, a forensic expert in organized crime. By letter dated 14. 12. 2017 is announced to doktor Pavel Zeman's Supreme Attorney on the continuation of illegal official procedure. This submission again contains details of the break-in to the shop in 1997 and the proven protection of this crime from the supervising prosecutors. Executor and forensic expert fraud from 2016 is detailed and demonstrated. The annex contains a letter to the President of the Supreme Court, doktor Josef Bax, dated 17. 8. 2017 and submission to the State Attorney General in Prague of 6. 10. 2017 giving details of the case. doktor Pavel Zeman did not even find the courage to answer the letter. He responded for him from doktor Jiří Hajda's Supreme Prosecutor's Office, which by letter dated 2. 1. 2018 announces that this is a content-coordinated initiative. JUDr. Jiří Hajda knowingly accepted the role of useful to provide protection of the crime of his direct supervisor, doktor Pavel Zeman. I'm not reading copies of evidence. The information and evidence concerning the fraud of the executor and the expert are provided in a letter dated 14. 5. 2019 sent by e-mail to the Ministry of Justice. This letter was probably not even forwarded to you by the Ministry's staff because it was never answered. 17, actually. 12. 2019 is repeatedly announced at the Regional Prosecutor's Office of the Czech Republic about illegal official procedure, conscious violation of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office and contempt of the Constitution of the Czech Republic by the Prosecutor's Attorney's Office. In 11 points, there is specific evidence showing the fraud of both the executor and the forensic expert. In the case of Miroslav Schötta, it is "only" the damage in the order of millions of CZK and "only" the economic liquidation of the originally successful businessman. For underpayment of the state, the executor was forced to sell an inherited family house with damage exceeding CZK 4.5 million. A great psychic terror can't even be described. As a result of the conscious counter-constitutional and criminal behaviour of the Czech legal system's civil servants, execution continues to be part of the old-age pension for non-incrimination against the state. . Václav Princ draws attention to the privatisation of Mototechna in 1995. Based on the privatisation project, a state enterprise worth CZK 250 million was sold. The State sold the state enterprise for approximately CZK 21 million because the debts were CZK 212 million, Komerční banka, a. s., which was to be repaid by the privatized company. Until the sum of CZK 21 million, the property and property of a state enterprise in the book value of CZK 250 million could not be sold. Nevertheless, privatization frauds sold four properties of a former state enterprise for CZK 21 million and thus paid to the state. However, they did not pay CZK 212 million, the state enterprise was truncated, as described by the Director of the Inspectorate of the Interior podlukovník doktor Mikoláš Tomin on 3 June 1999 in information for the Minister of Interior No. IN-62/09-99. This evidence was presented several times to the Police of the Czech Republic and to the prosecutor doktor František Tibitanzl and other officials and was submitted over the next 15 years. The evidence shows the facts that the Police of the Czech Republic knew and which testify about fraud and the tunning of state property. The National Property Fund was to ask for the outstanding assets back because of the outstanding debt of CZK 212 million and also because of the outstanding privatisation project. On the basis of an examination of the completed case, the Supreme Prosecutor acknowledged the misconduct of the criminal authorities 13. 9. 2012 and promised to follow the matter until its end. Until 2020, there has been no cessation and criminal activity has been legalised since 1997, as stated in the letter. [[10.00 hours]] Attorney General Pavel Zeman is knowingly violating the law, legalizing the fraud of privatization of a stolen state enterprise. Even today, fraud secures large financial gains from crime from selected leases of property of a former state enterprise and from the sale of its real estate. The details are in the annexes. In the case of the engineer Václav Princ, this is already a cover for successful fraud by the state prosecutor in the order of hundreds of millions of crowns. Alena Vitásková case. She repeatedly requested the initiation of a disciplinary procedure with the Supreme Prosecutor, Pavel Zeman, and other prosecutors, including an examination of their expertise. It is not always the self-inflicted intention of the prosecutor to harm citizens or the state. It is often the gross ignorance of the relevant laws. Last, the Institute of Alena Vitásková, a registered association, was initiated to initiate disciplinary proceedings and to investigate the capacity of state prosecutors of the Supreme Prosecutor Pavel Zeman and other prosecutors by letter dated 30. 11. 2019 y-o-y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y. 76/2019/11, which was further supplemented by additional suggestions. In the case of suspicion of non-compliance with the laws, the absolute helplessness of citizens to obtain justice and justice, the Institute of Alena Vitásková has been sent, for example, complaints from a citizen of Mr.Prkno, or recently an engineer of Milan Hora. The purpose of the submission of notifiers is to warn and seek redress in breach of laws by prosecutors who are directly obliged to ensure compliance with the laws and fundamental human rights and freedoms in their activities. This unfortunate state of affairs at the D.A.'s office is legally responsible to the Attorney General JUDr. Pavel Zeman, who repeatedly and consciously grossly violates the law in force in the Czech Republic, especially the law on the state prosecutor's office and the Code of Criminal Procedure. By doing so, he is making it clear to other citizens that laws do not apply to him, that he can freely violate them, and he can despise constitutional rights. From the evidence provided by the notifier, it is indisputable that JUDr. Pavel Zeman has long acted in favour of criminals, whether consciously or out of ignorance of laws. It provides protection and allows them to continue the crime. JUDr is transferring his illegal and unconstitutional actions. Pavel Zeman and his subordinate prosecutors. With his knowledge, or probably at his direction, he violates his legal obligations and acts in favour of criminals. He actively participates in the systematic stealing and terrorizing of citizens. The prosecutors merely prove that the international designation for the Czech Republic "legal state" is just an impossible wish for all really working citizens. Madam Secretary, we ask you, in your capacity as Minister of Justice and the political responsibility attached to this position, to take steps to correct the prosecutor's office. In the documents handed over to your Ministry of Justice by the signatories to Manifesto of citizens damaged by the State, it is clear that law violations by the state prosecutor can be brought about. JUDr. Pavel Zeman is shown not only negligence but suspicion of serious crime, ignorance of laws, violations and contempt of constitutional rights. The truthfulness of the evidence in the submitted proposals for initiating disciplinary proceedings is simply verifiable if the real political interest in correcting the system is genuine. In the long run, attempts are being made by the State Attorney General Pavel Zeman to establish some fourth pillar of the power of unelected structures in our state. This development is an alarming threat to democracy, with the serious danger of establishing a prosecutorial state. Finally, Madam Secretary, we would like to ask you not to address this issue and to accept this development. On this occasion, we ask you to accept the request of the Manifesto of citizens who have been harmed by the State, who have been served on you by this submission, to accept and discuss a serious situation in society in the area of law enforcement and justice, violations of human rights and freedoms with specific requirements for remedying the system. The Czech Republic has long struggled with the problem of law enforcement and justice. On specific cases, we prove that the perpetrators of serious crime order impunity and the possibility to continue the criminal proceedings with law enforcement authorities. This fact proves that it is possible to order a special-purpose prosecution and to do so also a conviction. In fact, this situation is impossible in the rule of law. It is socially necessary to correct the current legal system so that citizens can call at least basic human rights through legal channels. You are in the position of Minister of Justice, in which you have the opportunity to initiate corrective action and to restore to citizens lost faith in politics, justice and enforcement of law, which are the fundamental pillars of a democratic state. We would like to thank you in advance for your interest and the appointment of the meeting. Signed by the signatories. So let me say to the Minister of Justice that I have seriously dealt with one of those cases without reading the text I quoted. From 2010 to 2013, I served in this House as Chairman of the Supervisory Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, and the initiative of Václav Princ was forwarded to the Supreme Attorney at that time to Pavel Zeman after the examination of the Supervisory Committee. After certain peripetia, because we handed the initiative to the Supreme Attorney General of the Audit Committee to 14. 30. 2012 and the answer came from Dr. Jan Lata 13. 9. 2012, so it was said: Following the notification in the cases mentioned at the District Attorney's Office in České Budějovice under the file mark ZN 1122/98 and the Regional Attorney's Office in České Budějovice under the file mark KZN 760/2002 and the file mark KZV 72/2002 was the highest prosecutor on 2. 5. 2012 ordered inspection of the completed case pursuant to § 12 para. 3 of Law No. 283/1993 Coll., on the Public Prosecutor's Office, as amended, I inform you of the following facts - and it was 2012, three years, three years before the privatisation crime could be prosecuted until it was suspended. I quote again from Dr Lata's letter: "At the end of the case, it was found that the law enforcement authorities did not sufficiently deal with the privatisation of Mototechna itself, a state enterprise, including an evaluation of the reality of the privatisation project, but only assessed the behaviour of suspects after the privatisation. If the circumstances of the privatisation project were to give rise to reasonable suspicion that the intention to commit criminal activity existed at the time of the drafting or approval of the privatisation project, the prosecution would, in view of the 20-year limitation period within the meaning of Article 67 (1) of the EC Treaty, be subject to criminal proceedings. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) Law No 140/1961 Coll., Criminal Law, as amended, was not suspended. The Supreme Prosecutor has therefore been imposed on the Regional Prosecutor in České Budějovice measures in which the matter of the privatisation of Mototechna has been further investigated. For the sake of completeness, I say that the Supreme Attorney's Office will monitor the matter until its final conclusion. JUDr. Jan Lata, ., prosecutor." I can say that nothing has happened for three years, and according to the applicable criminal law, this case is therefore suspended in 2016. I could continue to do what happens, what peculiarities take place in our legal system. For example, the privatized company of the Pilsen breweries bypassed the registered Právovarné měšťanstvo in Pilsen, in a very interesting way. For so long the registration of this association took place, and finally the procedural substantive law body of the Předávárné měšťany in Pilsen was finally recognised by the Supreme Court of the Czech Republic's appeal order of 7. 11. 2013 according to the file mark 28-CDO-18-99 of 2013 on the basis of the above-mentioned territorial judicial decisions. But before that, because the lawmakers sought to have a share in the property of the Pilsen brewery before privatisation, they were never allowed to do so, and that was why it ended long before, in 2007, the rejection of the resolution of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic, when the Constitutional Court concluded that individual lawyers were not actively legitimized for the application of these property claims and therefore rejected their share of the property of the Pilsen brewery. Perhaps I do not need to remind the Members present when we sold it for small money into Japanese hands, then it went into the hands of South African society. And today it is part of one of the largest groups of InBev, the Brazilian-American-Belgian community, which makes considerable money on the brand Pilsen Prazdroj. [[10.10 hours]] If you would like to continue, I could also give other examples. But the point of my speech is that it is not about arguing with the Prime Minister here, with the Minister of Justice, about when he will prepare a government bill for this House to re-establish the indispensability of privatization crimes at least in such a way that we can prosecute it, the crimes that have happened after 2000, because the others probably cannot be prosecuted from the point of view of the ban on retroactivity of law. But all those things that happened in the '90s, they're gonna be kept quiet. This, of course, has a significant impact on citizens. And the fact that they founded a registered association that wants to ensure that citizens are not further harmed by the state is their legitimate right, such as the legitimate right of others to claim in court of justice. Let me conclude, then, that our resolution was not a slap in the water. We will insist that the Government of the Czech Republic deal with this, at least give citizens of the Czech Republic hope of a fair trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-001-291.u9	Good morning. I thank the President for the speech in the debate. If no one else is going into the debate on this interpelation, then I am ending the debate on this interpelation. I'm going to introduce you and your apologies. Mr Kubík apologizes today between 10 and 12 o'clock due to the hearing and Mr Chvojka apologises for today's meeting for family reasons. And now I ask Mr Grebeníček if he is interested in a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies on this answer. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-001-291.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have in my hands a text published in September 2011 by one of our respected journals. The headline is: Kalousek excites the mayors: Let us not leave money to the godfathers of the Civil Democratic Party! And the text - it is not long, it can be endured: The restaurant in the Mělnická camp was filled yesterday with about 20 curious mayors from surrounding towns and villages. They have come to hear the Minister of Finance Miroslav Kalousek, TOP 09, how he is going to improve them at the expense of four big cities: Prague, Brno, Pilsen and Ostrava. "It is our priority number one, or, more precisely, priority 1 to 2," Kalousek replied, asking one of the mayors whether they will defend the proposal against the coalition ODS, which does not like the planned version of the new tax distribution. Kalousek did not want to say whether he would leave the coalition due to the budgetary determination of taxes, but his colleague, Chairman of the TOP 09 and Mayors Petr Gazdík, spoke of the fact that if the ODS rejects their proposal, no one would hold them in the government. According to Kalousek, the management of the ODS rejects his proposal because they do not like their godfathers, who in large cities pushed through the coalition ODS and ČSSD. "If the country likes to be godfathers like Janoušek, Hrdlička and Rittig will continue to steal from their money, which they could use on the pavements and kindergartens, with the need for them on the tunnel Blanka, then we will not enforce the change," Kalousek said. At that time, the Prague tunnel Blanka had already increased by CZK 10 billion to CZK 38 billion. At that time, Miroslav Kalousek called on the mayors to explain to people that it was their money. According to the minister, the Prague budget is not decided by the council, but by the influential entrepreneurs Tomáš Hrdlička, Roman Janoušek and Ivo Rittig. Ladies and gentlemen, and gentlemen, a little thing that describes plastically what has actually happened in the past and unfortunately is still happening. Of course, once a year, the population of the Czech Republic will receive a document containing an estimate of corruption in our country. Maybe there's a new tradition out of it. The patron saint of corrupters could be svatý Václav, who greased the Němec with 300 oxen to leave the Čech alone. Although we sometimes enjoy the fact that it is even worse in Italy than in our country, that is all. Although citizens are calling for change, they are then resigned to declare: Carp does not release a pond. I wish things had been different in the case of Prime Minister Babiš and his government. Thank you for your attention and I have no reason to propose a new resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-001-291.u11	Mr. Ambassador, are you proposing no resolution? [[Member of Grebeníček: No.]] Okay, so no resolution. Okay, so we can close this interpellation. We will deal with another interpelation included in today's meeting and it is an interpelation when Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to the interpellation of Mr Jan Zahradník in the matter of energy security of the Czech Republic. The matter has been adjourned to the presence of the Prime Minister, but Mr Interpelling Member Jan zahradník is reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-001-291.u12	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I have proposed the interruption of my interpelation to the presence of the Prime Minister, which is postponed indefinitely, ad infinitum. I would therefore like to ask the Vice-President whether he would accept my proposal for a revision of this resolution and have him vote on this proposal of mine so that I can present my response to the Prime Minister's reply at today's meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-001-291.u13	It's possible, of course, for a procedure. We will decide by voting to interrupt the presence of the Prime Minister, i.e. to continue to discuss this interpelation without the presence of the Prime Minister. I have begun, I will wait until the Members are present. We will decide on the proposal for a revision of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies to be suspended in the presence of the Prime Minister in the following vote. I'll check you all out. I've been waiting to check out when there's a bigger presence. Please log in with your ID cards. Mr Jan Zahradník's motion to continue without the Prime Minister's presence in the discussion of his written interpelation according to the press 684, we will decide in the vote number 310, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the voting order number 310 from the present 79 for 78, no one opposed. The resolution was adopted, so we will continue to discuss the interpellation of Jan Zahradník in the matter of energy security of the Czech Republic. The Member shall report to the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-001-291.u14	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to introduce you to my response to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš's reply to my question on energy security in the Czech Republic. I will give my reaction by quoting what the Prime Minister said this January at Law. He said: We will not let Europe impose on us things that should threaten our economy. Surely we will not be torn down by fanatical green measures that threaten our industry. We'd better sue and argue about sanctions at the worst. So I must say that the answer prepared by the Prime Minister by his subordinates does not in any way reflect his decision. The authors of these answers seem to view the issue in a very different way, although the truth is, and I would state this by a simple figure, while we are talking about a solar tunnel that should reach a level of CZK 1 trillion, so the next steps in fulfilling the green area would cost our country maybe three, maybe five trillion crowns. I don't have any grounds for these claims, but I'm based on what Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade for Energy René Neděla said at the end of December last year. He said: we were counting on how much we were going to meet the targets for the share of renewable resources by 2030, including energy efficiency, it was based on 3 trillion. So 1 trillion, that's the grant title for renewables, and it's going to be running for ten more years, and 2 trillion, according to Deputy Secretary Sunday, it's going to be energy efficiency. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now allow myself to analyze those answers gradually. My first question concerned the number of photovoltaic power plants, the area of the panels, the installed power, the capacity of any battery storage that could be placed (a) on the roofs of the family houses, the unused area after the finished mining, and how great the cost of investment would be. I must say that the answer to my first question is not based on any specific calculations made by the Ministry of Industry and Trade itself, but only on materials prepared for lobbyist associations, which are the Solar Associations and the Czech Photovoltaic Association. The first writes about itself on the web that it is the largest professional association of entrepreneurs in solar energy and other supporters of photovoltaics, and that the second association is the aim of the association's activities in general beneficial activity of promoting and developing the use of photovoltaic energy as a renewable natural and ecological source of energy. So it speaks for all the resources used by those who suggested to the Prime Minister an answer to my question. Now, what do the numbers tell us that we can see in the Prime Minister's reply? The roof areas of the family and apartment buildings have a potential of 4,500 megawatt-peak. Megawatt-peak or kilowatt-peak is a unit of power of a solar cell or solar power plant at, say, standard, perhaps better said optimal conditions when the sun is shining and it is warm. The other buildings, the public sector, the service buildings, the industrial ones, even offer the possibilities of another 7,300 megawatt-peak installed power, i.e. a total of 12,000 megawatt-peak, which I would call variant one. This would correspond to the delivery of 12 million megawatt hours, i.e. 12 terawatt hours, because according to the Energy Regulatory Authority's 2018 report, the annual specific delivery of the photovoltaic power plant is 1,000 megawatt hours per installed megawatt-peak, which, according to our analysis, was around 14 percent of the electricity generation in 2018. The estimated installed photovoltaic power on brownfields is 600 megawatt-peak, which is less than 5 percent, and so we will not be overly concerned with it. The answer refers to a study by ENACO, which provides a slightly different data. According to them, the estimate of the overall potential in 2045, to which many considerations refer and which is based on the assumption that the market would be saturated not by all housing objects, but by about 50 percent, is where people can decide whether or not they want to put photovoltaic panels on the roof, and 70 percent for other buildings, where the state could possibly decide by authority and only technical conditions would prevent any installation. This would mean installing a power of 7,500 megawatt-peak, which is variant B for me. Whether this estimate is real or not, whether it is just a wishful thinking, let us leave aside. But even if it could be filled, in 2045 photovoltaic power plants would deliver about 9 percent of electricity production in 2018. It was almost record-breaking, it reached 88 terawatt hours with us, which is a reference number indicating to each layman the significance of the terawatt hour unit. We produce such terawatt hours a year with us and we consume 88 for the most part. The estimate for 2050 indicates the consumption of 83 terawatt hours, so we can base on the lower figure, whether we're in this, let's say, correct. And when we do simple calculations reflecting today's reality, and that is our response, so if we were to install photovoltaic capacity, photovoltaic energy, from December 2019, installed power on the roof is 4.75 kilowatt-peak, the battery would have a capacity of about 7.2 kilowatt hours, the price is estimated at 335,000 crowns. And if we were to install something like this on all the inhabited apartment buildings or on the panels, that's about 200,000, then we would have installed a power of 12,000 megawatt-peak and the potential to supply about 14 terawatt-hours, which in turn is 15 percent of the power generation from 2018. It would cost about CZK 840 billion after the conversion of the investment data that I have presented, thus coming out of the current, real prices on the market. So if we were based on a certain 50-, roughly 5% saturation, if we average the 50 and 70 percent, we would get roughly half of the sum, 450 billion crowns, what it would require. [[10.30 hours]] Far more serious, however, is what is not mentioned in the answer, but can also be found in the study. The authors didn't find any answers. To illustrate several quotations in chapter 6.2 of the scenario of the economic potential of photovoltaic energy. From the results of the economic analysis of the installation of roof photovoltaics, it is clear that the installation of roof photovoltaics is not economically suitable for one of the analyzed categories of collection, says on page 36. On page 38 then: The sensitivity analysis shows that the positive profitability, i.e. the non-zero IRR - internal rate of return, probably the return of the installation - is able to produce roof photovoltaics only when the electricity produced in their own consumption is between 90 and 100 percent, which means a small installation performance, i.e. about 0.5 to 1 kilowatt-peak. So if we translate it into some understandable language, without a state subsidy, investment in roof photovoltaics, except for the smallest ones, i.e. produce - consume, irrecoverable. As far as the subsidies go, he's telling us the material a few pages away. To realise the full technical potential of roof photovoltaics and to implement an average output of 4.5 kilowatt-peak, it would be necessary to introduce investment subsidies of CZK 33.6,000 per kilowatt-peak. However, the above subsidy does not guarantee the optimal use of the energy produced. Should emphasis be placed on both the development of roof photovoltaic power plants and the use of their potential, as well as on the optimal use of the energy produced, the support must be targeted optimally at the dimensioned systems of 2,5 to 3.5 kilowatts. Thus, optimally, in quotation marks, it would be to support resources with installed power of 30 per cent less than what is considered in the calculations, which would mean that our planned deliveries would not be 12 to 15 per cent, but would fall to 5 to 7 per cent. If we use the data provided by ENACO, the maximum amount of the unit subsidy should be 55 thousand for battery systems. CZK per kilowatt-peak and for the other CZK 30,000 per kilowatt-peak, so we assume an annual installation of 50 megawatt-peak, and here it would mean that subsidies including battery accumulation systems would mean 2 billion. crowns a year. If we compare it with what can be calculated from the data on the same side, the State should come revenue from this activity of 700 million. A year's worth of crowns. It is therefore expected to be approximately VAT of 500 million. CZK as one of the revenue items, tax on the income of the assembly companies, which would make the investments, 64 million. CZK per year, and this would create a new thousand jobs with an average wage of 38,000. CZK, which would mean annual contributions of 120 million. Crowns. So if we subtract the expected costs and the return of 700 million, that's still a loss of 1.3 billion. CZK per year, which, of course, is no good, positive news. Once again, we are at risk of making the same strategic mistake as we did ten years ago when the support of large solar parks was approved, and they cost us, as we know, 30 billion a year. CZK and by 2030 will be the state when they reach a trillion crowns, as I have already mentioned. And the result? Unfortunately, there isn't one. According to the Energy Regulatory Authority's data for 2018, photovoltaic power plants supplied only 2,5 percent of the electricity produced, mainly at a time when it was needed at least. A specialist in the stability of the distribution system would say more harm than good. Calculated per person, every citizen would be robbed by 100 grand. koruna, without meaning to the environment or the economy. So a comparison of photovoltaics and another such alternative source, in my opinion, without emission, i.e. nuclear source, can be done after simple calculations that in the variant A, if we were to deliver 12 terawatt hours, it would be 7.5 terawatt hours for variant B, and in our variant C, as I said, again 12 terawatt hours, it would cost gradually 540, 338, or 840 billion. CZK, which, in realization, would bring 31,500 megawatt hours, i.e. 31.5 terawatt hours, in the first variant of nuclear energy. And I'm going to be counting on a hundred percent pillow here, because everyone always says when we assume that megawatt in the core costs 120 billion, it's going to be more expensive, so I suggest you multiply it all, or in this case divide it by two, so we have 15 terawatt hours. In the case of our more realistic one, we have 24 terawatt hours of annual nuclear energy production versus the cost of building photovoltaic power plants. So I'm sure the core is infinitely more effective. Basically, we could build two Temelín power plants, two new Temelíns, for the investments that we would spend supporting the photovoltaics. The question is where. But that's the second thing, so we're dealing with numbers now, just like we have in the study. So, ladies and gentlemen, that would be the first question. The second question is equally interesting. I asked how it would all look at wind power plants. The answer refers to the conclusions of the document which had the Institute of Atmospheric Physics prepared by the Academy of Sciences, but again the values are drawn from the material of the lobby association of the Chamber of Renewable Energy Sources, which is called Analysis of Wind Energy of the Czech Republic from 2015. Here are two values for 2050, namely a conservative scenario for wind energy of 3,100 megawatts of installed power, and then an optimistic scenario of 5,800 megawatts of installed power. The answer correctly states that these figures express technical potential and do not correspond to the socio-economic potential, i.e. the question of how the public will take this, how the windbreakers will suffer in their surroundings, or what the resources will be for it. If we wanted to make this increase through one of the largest installations we use today for inland installations, not the marine ones, like the Němec have, for example, but we don't have any seas, we have to have inland equipment, like the Vestas V90, which has a rated output of 2 megawatts, we would have to build 1,55 or even 2,900 in the second scenario. Given that the maximum service life of these devices is 25 years old, it would mean that we would have to build them, put them in operation 50 to 10 a year, or each year restore one quarter to one half of current installations. In order to assess how these variants make any sense at all, so whether 3,100 megawatts, or 1, 550 windwinders, or 5,800 megawatts - 2,900 winders, look at the neighboring Bavaria, which is close to us not only geographically, but also the size and number of inhabitants, has threefold GDP. [[10.40 hours]] According to a recent statement by the Bavarian Minister of Economics, only 300 wind power plants are planned to be built in Bavaria by 2022, because the construction of more has hindered strict regulation due to their distance from human dwellings. We will find that in 2017, there were 1,100 wind plants with installed capacity of 2,500 MW per year producing 4.5 million. MWh, which is the 4,500 TWh of electricity. Comparison of specific supplies - here we have data from the ERU, which states that one installed MW in the wind power plant produces 2 000 MWh per year, this is the standard, so in our country it would be exactly up to 1 899, 1 900 MWh/MW, in Bavaria it is 1 846 MWh/MW. So the deviation from that kind of normative power of energy production is about three percent. If we look at these numbers from an optimistic scenario, i.e. installation of 3,000 turbines with a capacity of 5 800 MW, it's almost utopian. If we were still watching this with prism, so the prices of energy, which is much bigger in Germany, about twice as much as in our country, we would just get completely out of all possible sessions. According to the ERU's report on the operation of the electricity system in 2018 and the Czech wind power company, the total installed capacity of 320 MW was the wind power plants, and 201 of them were, so the 201 wind power plants with an output of 320 MW supplied 600,000 MWh of electricity, i.e. 0,6 TWh, 0,7 percent of the total production - a negligible, negligible fraction. If we look at the problem from an economic point of view, at today's cost of the Vestace 90 power plant, which was 70 miles. CZK, so we would get to annual investments of between CZK 3.5 and 7 billion, i.e. in the twenty-five-year horizon of CZK 105 to 210 billion. Dramatic values again. And how much energy would we get? So the ERU report shows that the annual specific deliveries are the 2,000, which I have already said, MWh/MW, then we should produce about 6.2 to 11.6 TWh, i.e. 7 to 13 percent in those optimistic forecasts. So if we compare the hypothetical wind energy to the capacity of any nuclear potential, if we put the money into the core, we'd get roughly the same value. An interesting view is also in terms of material intensity, i.e. ecological view. The necessary cement and steel for the production, for the construction of the windmills, we still cannot produce large amounts of energy without the production of CO2. Thus, according to the Czech Wind Energy Society, 1 100 tons of concrete, 150 tons of cement, and 300 tons of steel are needed for the construction of VtE Vestas 90. In measurement units, this means 7,5 t/MW installed. And in the case of cement and steel 150 t/MW. If we compare it with the construction of the Temelín nuclear power plant, which has a rated output of 2 000 MW, there was 300 thousand consumed. tons of concrete and 20 thousand. tons of steel. So 20 t/MW cement and 13 t/MW for steel, i.e. per unit of installed power we will use 4 times more cement and 13 times more steel in the case of wind power plants. Here we would have to say that if we wanted to recalculate it by the amount of energy produced, when the annual deliveries of course are not stable, we would have gotten to even larger amounts - 13 times and 42 times more in cement. So I'm saying again, we're not talking about any capacity reserves, just building up the windmills, or photovoltaic parks. No backup sources. And, of course, these nature-dependent resources don't work all the time, but only when nature wants to. What an increase in installed power was my next question, our current distribution network is able to handle. The answer here is that the model case had been assessed if 6,000 wind power had been installed in 2050. MW and 25 thousand. MW for photovoltaic power plants, this is the 2050 plan, so annual investments in the electricity network would have to be CZK 86 billion higher - grids please. And that's 7,000. MW is then twice the plan that Bavaria has. So we're still in some studies, and that's studies that don't make any skeptics, but they're made by the Czech Photovoltaic Association, and there's no suspicion of lack of ambition. If we based on this consumption on the increase in investment, this would be an investment of CZK 2.5 trillion. Once again, we're doing two, so it could be 1.2 trillion crowns. Once again, when we invest these funds in the nucleus, we would get to 70 TWh of annual energy production, or in the skeptical division of two to 35 produced TWh per year, which we would get if we hadn't wasted the money on those renewable sources. What investments would have to be made to stabilize the network if that share of OZ was 22 percent. So here's two messages worth paying attention. If the share of OZ in electricity production was 16 per cent, the stability of the network would not be compromised and we would not have to invest more. The second is that public investment is calculated in the national plan of the Czech Republic for the period 2021 to 2030 and amounts to CZK 900 billion, so that part will be realized only in the following period and that it is public investment, which means that the private sector will have to contribute somehow. So even without this next trillion, which is, like, an extra trillion, these numbers are completely deterrent. The fifth question concerned how this relates to our security, actually national security, whether there were problems with the availability of raw materials for the production of photovoltaic panels or storage capacities located in China, or in reliable countries, Africa etc., and whether the topic was discussed by the Security Council of the State. The answer is that it was not discussed at the level of the State Security Council. While President Trump, he has, of course, already taken certain steps in this and shows that the United States is aware of how serious the threat is. The material states in response that we need to look at it and act at EU level, which is a good thing, which is better than dealing with it on our own. But what specific proposal did the EU and the European Commission make? We will look at the critical raw material page on the European Commission website. There is much to be learned, but what Trump issued as a regulation to ensure safe and reliable supplies of critical minerals is nothing there. [[10.50 hours]] The issue of price cuts, that was the sixth. The reduction in prices for both the raw materials themselves and the final photovoltaic components, which was the cause of the solar boom, provided that renewable sources, including electromobility, are promoted in our country at the same pace as in the European Union. So the question was not happy, I must say, but yet it is clear from the overall context how the world prices would react if we went the same way as the European Union if the rest of the world had gone that way. According to the International Energy Agency's prediction, panel prices should fall by another 50 percent by 2040. However, the executive director of this agency says: The historical slowdown in energy efficiency in 2018, which is the lowest rate of improvement since the beginning of the decade, requires bold action from policymakers and investors. Energy efficiency - says the gentleman - can be increased by three percent per year simply through existing technologies and cost-effective investments. According to him, there is no excuse for inaction. There is a need for ambitious policies to stimulate investment and implement the necessary technologies on a global scale. Miss Greta Thunbergová might as well say that, and some executive director of this agency says so. It's probably something like thinking that just like a car it's going to accelerate from zero to 100, it's going to accelerate from 100 to 200 just as fast. It's simply not possible to achieve 100% efficiency, and the limit transition will just always slow down. So energy efficiency is not the source for increasing energy efficiency. It's just not a source for some big savings. Ladies and gentlemen, the next question concerns the many mentioned in the recent period of biofuels. Thus, especially when the first generation biofuels failed, as will the second generation biofuels. I mean, second-generation biofuels, the possibility of which is here. It should be produced, for example, from rendering fats, frying oil, wood chips, plastic waste. So not corn or grain, like those biofuels of the first generation. Here the first sentence in the reply writes: Rather than the volume of raw materials is a question of manufacturing production capacity - that is nice. It's like the guy who intends to build a brandy didn't let him figure out how much plums are growing around there. It's something like that. It's a bit of a Cimrmanov position. They're suggesting I look it up somewhere. I don't know if it's diplomatic, but I'm not offended, not at all. We were there to examine how the material they refer to, and this is the famous national plan of the Czech Republic in the field of energy and climate, looks at second generation biofuels. He doesn't show up once, that concept. Twice there is the expression of first generation biofuels, the expression of production is 31 times, but not once in conjunction with biofuels. The term biofuels itself is then there - without a generational attribute - 46 times, but not once in conjunction with any resources or production capacity. Biofuel, as the author of the article says on Auto.cz So far, it has brought profit to farmers, poor countries hunger and poverty, scientists doubt and motorists destroyed cars. Will the second generation bring improvement? he asks. Well, I wish the farmers profit. They deserve it, they feed us part of their production. Thus, I do not want hunger and poverty for the poor countries and neither do the destroyed cars. So what could the second generation of biofuels be made of? seno, straw. But what are we going to feed the cattle with, what are we going to make up to have the manure, the so-called keg? We've already found out that it's not quite the same. So let's take the above-mentioned rendering fats. Statistical data indicate that 1.5 million bovine animals and 1.5 million pigs were kept in our territory in 2017. If we assume an average weight of 500 kg for cattle and 100 kg for pigs, then with an average of 5% of the fat content, we get 42,000 theoretical tonnes of raw material available. At 80% yield, we would produce 34 million litres of biofuels, which is less than 1% of the 6 billion litres of diesel consumed annually in our country. And we figured we'd turn all the beef and pork fat into diesel. So what can we really have? All 10 percent. If that were true, we have only one per mile of total diesel consumption available in this segment. Well, wood chips? So here, I mean, he's turned the crust, and there's not gonna be a spruce, there's not gonna be any spruce, there's not gonna be any woods. But that's another chapter. And this is how we can look at the production of fuels from edible oils, plastics and other promising raw materials. If we just counted for a while, it's one more nonsense than the other. The association for the use of OZ has had a comprehensive energy balance made using the GEMIS program. So the results are not encouraging. And on the margins, in the Czech Republic's national energy and climate plan, there is no mention of this 30-year existing GEMIS programme, which was used by the Pačesův Commission 12 years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, the end of time is slowly approaching, but I'm still talking, I'm not quitting my show. I will move on to the eighth question, which concerned the comparative cost of energy leveled cost of electricity - LCOE. I asked what values the Ministry was counting on for each source, whether it was coal, core, gas, sun, wind, or others, and what values were used for the calculation for each source. Instead of getting some specific numbers in the answer that I asked about in the eighth question, I learned how difficult the problem was and why no numbers could be in the answer. Yet the answer is not worthless. The most important and crucial information is that the LCOE methodology, i.e. the ratio between the total cost of the source, investment and operation and the amount of energy produced over the lifetime, is replaced by a new methodology - VA LCOE. This VA is as if modified LCOE, value-adjusted, which also accounts for the cost of stability of supplies. And this is where it all falls down. While the LCOE is giving a certain optimistic forecast, coal costs are rising, photovoltaics are falling, so the value-adjusteds, when the cost of supply stability - which is crucial for photovoltaics - are also counting - are rising there and coal costs are falling significantly. So the author of the answer was probably aware that it wasn't quite that simple, so he limited himself to certain non-direct statements in his reply. For illustration, values -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-001-291.u15	Ambassador, I must interrupt you. According to the Rules of Procedure Act at 11 o'clock, paragraph 291 of this meeting ends, i.e. the reply to written interpelations. You will continue, and I would like to remind you that, with a factual remark - for the Steno Protocol - Mr Polanský, who will be included in the debate on your interview, if he insists, after your speech. Before we continue, allow me to state Mr Foldyna's apology for today's day from 10 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. I remind you that Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, Minister Klára Dostálová, Minister Karel Havlíček, Minister Lubomír Metnar will be excused for the afternoon, but Minister Petříček will be here for the afternoon, who only apologized for the morning. Pardoned is Minister Plaga for work reasons, Minister Toman, who is on a foreign trip, and Minister Vojtěch Adam, who is also on a foreign trip. Now let me conclude paragraph 291 and say that we will deal with the items from the first reading of the contracts block, i.e. paragraphs 188 to 205 under the approved agenda. In the afternoon, we'll be focusing on paragraph 292, which is oral questioning. At the same time, I will hand over the proceedings to the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-001-291.u16	Hello. We should therefore look at the points from the first reading block, as has already been said by the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. Of course, there is also the possibility of proposing changes to the programme. Mr. Černohorský reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-001-291.u17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, on the basis of the agreement of the club's presidents, I would like to propose a solid inclusion of paragraph 87, which is the proposal of Members Marek Benda, Helena Válková and others to amend the administrative order, House press 237. I suggest we include him at 12.45 tonight. Unfortunately, we didn't make it last night.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-001-291.u18	Yes, I'm marked. Is anyone else applying to change the agenda for the meeting? Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-001-291.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I am very sorry that the treaties that are at second reading are not being placed on the agenda of the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. Some of these contracts lie there for almost a year, some maybe even longer. So I suggest we take this whole block of contracts at second reading and put it as today's block of first reading. It is likely that it will not get to them, but I would like it to be included there to remind us that we also need to discuss these international treaties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-001-291.u20	Thank you. I'm just gonna make sure the nature of the proposal. You are suggesting that the first-reading contracts that are at second reading should be included in today's contract block.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-001-291.u21	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-02-13-ps2017-040-11-001-291.u22	Thank you. Is there another proposal to change the agenda? It's not. We will therefore vote on the two proposals as they have been said. First of all, we will vote on Mr Černohorský's proposal to include paragraph 87, House Press 237, Administrative Rules of Procedure, for today at 12.45 hours. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 311, 125 Members signed in for 103, no one opposed. We have accepted the motion. At 12.45 hours, we'll be dealing with point 87. Another proposal - from Mr Lipavský - is that we include contracts at second reading as a block of contracts at first reading. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 312, registered 128 Members, for 107, against no one. We have also approved this proposal. Now we're going to focus on the point.
