ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-002-285.u1	285. Final report of the Investigation Commission on OKD /Household document 3516/ I ask that the report submitted by the commission of inquiry be presented by the chairman of this commission, Mr Lukáš Černohorský. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I ask for peace. And the chairman of the committee of inquiry has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-002-285.u2	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, first of all, I would like to thank all the members and co-workers of the OKD committee of inquiry, the police who have helped with witness interviews, the House staff, first of all the Chancellor for his helpfulness, the writers and the reporters for their above-standard commitment to witness statements. I will try to shorten my speech, in which I will present the conclusions of the commission of inquiry as much as possible, but, as you know, we had to deal with quite a long period and unfortunately it was not quite easy. And even the shortening will mean a little longer speech. OKD was and is an exceptional enterprise for many citizens of the Czech Republic, especially those from the Moravian-Silesian Region is an emotional matter. It is indisputable that coal mines in the Ostrava-Carvin basin were indispensable for the Czech industry and were one of the foundations of the current industrial maturity of the Czech Republic. Some mines have worked for over 100 years and many generations of miners have worked on the shafts, who have sacrificed not only health but also the most valuable, often their lives here. It is important to say that the case of OKD has not only left huge material damage to the priceless money, but has also irreversibly damaged citizens' confidence in justice and the democratic system of parliamentary democracy. I would like to say that during the Commission's leadership, I have received a lot of reactions from citizens that were consistent with this claim on several points, namely that they do not believe in the fair punishment of the culprits in the functioning of the system and that the investigation is a kind of witch-hunt. OKD was one of the first companies left, although the process of completing privatisation lasted almost 15 years. Privatisation in general was a political decision of its time, with which the commission of inquiry decided not to compromise. So we did not want to argue with the privatisation method, that was the government's decision. However, if the government decided to privatise and determine the method of privatisation, all responsible persons should have followed the legislation and in the interest of the State and its citizens. Over time, i.e. after privatisation, OKD ended up in insolvency. Until then, it was one of the largest companies in the Czech Republic in terms of the number of employees and profitability, which subsequently requested financial support. And with that financial support, the state had to come. The owners of OKD became one of the richest people in the Czech Republic who failed to fulfil their promises to sell apartments to tenants. And the subsequent solution to their entire activity, whether the flooding and termination of the operation down and so on, remained on the shoulders of the state at the moment. Privatization of OKD and the downstream facts often accompanied both incompetent and serious, possibly intentional, infringements of politicians, certain officials, entrepreneurs and their lawyers, which were contrary to the interests of the state and its citizens. The commission of inquiry had to go back to the opening of the privatisation process in order to meet the commission of inquiry, which began in 1990. So we have conducted a thorough examination of this method of privatisation, so we have read the entire privatisation project and gradually reached the part where we needed to continue to interrogate or obtain further information from the Witnesses as an important source of information. This commission had to deal with a large number of important witnesses who, unfortunately, are no longer among us. For the sake of interest, this resulted, among other things, in the fact that unanswered witnesses in the eyes of some of our witnesses were becoming supermans in their powers, although their position did not respond at all. But apparently they were responsible for all the questionable. For example, a Witness, Zdeněk Bakala, refused to fulfil his witnessing duty, and the commission of inquiry asked the Police of the Czech Republic for his demonstration. I personally consider his actions to be an extremely arrogant contempt for the constitutional body of the country in which he became rich. As the witness did not stay in the territory of the Czech Republic, his demonstration unfortunately did not take place, as the Police of the Czech Republic cannot exercise that authority abroad. The Commission's work was carried out by dividing the subject matter into three parts and each part was to be processed by a group of members whose conclusion was presented by the designated rapporteur. The final report is thus based on intelligence reports and detailed analyses prepared by the commission of inquiry, which form the basis for the final report of the commission of inquiry. [[11.10 hours]] Let me sum up the main points of the final report. Of course, one of the parts that the committee of inquiry dealt with in detail was the administration of the majority. Here we have obtained, and I would like to thank the Minister of Finance, a large number of documents that have been obtained in the Ministry of Finance archives. In this case, we found that, following a request from the Board of Directors of OKD, the decision of the then Minister of Industry and Trade Vladimír Dlouhý was made at the Ministry for the Administration of State Property and its privatisation to reduce the registered capital by 3.5 billion. Kč. The Commission considers this decision to be highly problematic. Even the very setting of the division, which was broken down in the privatisation project, was quite strange. Here it was expected that a reserve would be reserved for the mine depression of approximately 12,5 %, which was just corresponding to the 3.5 billion. CZK, which were concentrated in shares. However, the commission of inquiry failed to find out from the verified evidence why it was decided that the reimbursement of the costs associated with the decline in mining activities would be dealt with by reducing the company's registered capital only at the expense of the National Property Fund's share. In fact, the costs in question could have been covered in other ways, in particular through subsidies which were also commonly used for this purpose. In 1993-1996 alone, OKD received subsidies to reduce mining in the amount of about 2 billion. CZK per year, in 1996 it was even 2.5 billion. Kč. The investigation committee is therefore not clear, and we have not been able to find out either from the testimony of the witnesses why the issue has not been dealt with by means of subsidies in this case as well. In that decision, the State ensured that the costs of the downward downturn were not borne by other shareholders, which was probably from the beginning the political commission of privatisation, but at the same time, which is worse, the same decision deprived itself of its majority participation in the company. The consequences of this step were far-reaching, and it can be said that this was a key turning point, because the loss of the majority lost the state essentially all the effective means to positively influence both the OKD's management and the overall impact of its activities on the region in which this company operates. To the day of 22. 12. 1995 The National Property Fund still owned less than 54 percent of the OKD's capital. 28th day. 2. 1996 The Government agreed to conclude a contract between the National Property Fund, on the one hand, and the OKD, on the other hand, in which the National Property Fund undertakes to cover the costs of settlement of environmental obligations arising prior to privatisation within the meaning of the principles set out in the Annex to the resolution. The fact is that the Czech Republic undertook to pay this damage up to OKD's registered capital, which exceeded 27,8 billion at that time. Kč. It is therefore strange that at the same time, namely 1-2. 3. 1996, the board of OKD, which assessed the continued decline in coal mining and the OKD restructuring process, came to the conclusion that in order to realise the value of OKD's assets and to calm minority shareholders, the OKD's core capital should be reduced by the said amount of 3.5 billion. CZK with the current increase of the special liquidation fund of OKD at the same amount. In fact, however, it was an advantage for minority shareholders, in particular banks, funds or other owners of OKD shares. Paradoxically after 1999, the government of Miloš Zeman granted subsidies for this activity on the basis of its resolutions concerning the decline in the mining industry and transferred a number of environmental commitments from OKD to the state-owned undertaking Diamo, a.s. On the day of 19. 4. 1996 is a dated request from the National Property Fund for the revision of the approved privatisation project, in such a way as to reduce OKD's capital by 3.5 billion. CZK and, at the same time, to transfer 1,3% of the shares from the company's capital to 11 other municipalities. On the basis of this decision, the state actually disposed of the majority in society. The Commission considered that the decision of the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Privatization, who agreed to this, bears the characteristics of criminal activity and therefore decided to file a criminal complaint in this area. In this case, I would like to point out that, in the light of further developments, the Commission considered it important to note that, according to the documents examined, it was on 2. 7. 1996 held a meeting between the management of OKD on the one hand and Patria Finance, a. s. for which he participated. and Mr Zdeněk Bakala. At the hearing, Patria Finance promised the management of OKD to monitor the movement of shares and to inform it of any changes in the composition of the shareholder structure. However, it is not clear from the available evidence what this activity served when the State had given up its majority participation in OKD several weeks earlier and could not reasonably assume that it could prevent the accumulation of the majority share package in other hands. This was indeed the case in 1997-1998 when a large number of shares were purchased by different persons acting in agreement. These ended up in the hands of Stanislav Pros, a businessman who practically took over OKD. However, it has not been here long since the company sold its stake in September 1998, Prosper Trading, owned by Stanislav Pros, sold its majority stake in OKD to KARBON INVEST, with the fact that the board of directors of OKD only then, at the end of September, approved the purchase of K. O. P., a. s. owned by Mr Koláček, Otava a Przybyla. In November 1998, Viktor Koláček became Chairman of the Board of Directors of KARBON INVEST, which was already in control of OKD. The Extraordinary General Meeting of OKD approved a contract on the principles of mutual relations between KARBON INVEST, OKD and Českomoravské doly, with the fact that this was actually transferred to OKD on the basis of four mandate agreements and a contract on the commercial representation between KARBON INVEST and OKD for an indefinite period of considerable powers. There was a need for all legal advice, even though KARBON INVEST was not authorised to do so and could not provide these things. No later than 1997 the State has been warned by some other shareholders that OKD's management does not benefit from certain activities of the company but, on the contrary, damages it and favours the controlling shareholder. The investigation committee considers it important to point out that the State has completely resigned from the exercise of its shareholders' rights in connection with the possible damage to OKD at this time, i.e. a minority. The commission of inquiry did not observe that the state authorities had formulated and from the shareholder's position they had filed even a single claim for damages by the board of directors, even in later years, although the amount of the State's share still allowed this until the privatisation of the minority share, that is, until 2004. The privatization of the CSM mine became a small but important stone in the mosaic of the privatization story. Stonevský Můl ČSM was a promising OKD mine in which large investments were made before 1989, and this mine was to ensure OKD high returns and profitability. In 1990, Minister of Economics Vladimír Dlouhý was separated from OKD and transferred to ČMD, a. s., in which he led the mine ČSM Ing during the lease in 1990. Viktor Koláček, later important person of privatization and our whole story. ČMD was then partially privatised, while the State remained a share of 45 per cent in the capital. The State's share of shares should then be privatised in 1996. The Ministry of Privatization originally intended to sell on the basis of the competition of participants, however, Vladimír Dlouhý personally supported direct sales at the price of shares on the capital market of K. O. P., which owned a majority stake in ČMD. [[11.20 hours]] However, due to the dysfunctional market, the price was not relevant for privatisation purposes, yet there was no competition compared to the Ministry's original proposal for privatisation. K. O. P., a. s., was controlled by Viktor Koláček and in 1996 the minority stake in ČMD was sold to Koláček K. O. P., a. s., for the price of CZK 189 million, which was to correspond to the average price of the share on the capital market, but at least CZK 130. Thus, in 1989, the whole K.O.P. was bought by OKD. [[correct: 1999]] It should be noted that K.O.P. was bought for less than 4 billion crowns. In this year, according to the expert opinion, the price was set on the basis of an award of less than CZK 1.8 billion. The share of 45 percent should be worth less than CZK 800 million. In the course of a single year, the shareholders of the state's share in the Czech Moravian mines achieved multiple returns for the entire transaction, approximately CZK 600 million, while the Commission considers that the damage to the state corresponds to that amount. Therefore, the commission of inquiry also filed a criminal complaint against the ministers of the time, because by their decision they could have caused damage to the state up to the amount of CZK 600 million. At this point, as we move a little further, OKD soon after it was taken over by KARBON INVEST, as I have already said, has concluded several mandate agreements with the latter company - legal, commercial, personnel or accounting. Similar contracts were also concluded with Českomoravské doly and the annual revenues from these contracts ranged from CZK 550 million to CZK 681 million. These contracts and transactions became the subject of interest to the Police of the Czech Republic in 2003 and in 2006 the criminal proceedings conducted against the shareholders of Mr Otav, Mr Koláček and Przybyl resulted in the prosecution of the crime of misuse of information in trade. According to the indictment, the performance of the mandate contracts was partly fictional and partly overpriced and KARBON INVEST carried out rather methodological and coordination activities. According to the indictment, the shareholders of KARBON INVEST also used their position in OKD and KARBON INVEST to avoid a reasonable distribution of OKD profits, even though OKD had positive economic results and all shareholders were entitled to a dividend. According to the state prosecutor, the intention of this procedure was to accumulate the amount of non-distributed profit until it was fully controlled by OKD and then to pay the accumulated profits in the form of dividends, which really occurred after the privatisation in 2004. After the prosecution was brought before the Regional Court in Ostrava, on the basis of the defendants' proposal, a very non-standard decision by the Supreme Court was decided on a delegation of the case to the Regional Court in Hradec Králové, allegedly due to a negative media image. Such a decision on the delegation was unique and could create suspicions of special-purpose conduct in favour of the defendants. In fact, the Regional Court in Hradec Králové acquitted the defendants in 2009 and delivered the judgment to the supervising prosecutor. The supervisor of an experienced supervisor, then a much younger Martin Suchý, gave a binding order not to appeal. Later, Martin Suchý, according to Mr Kalda's witness statement, which was the supervising prosecutor, justified the decision to appeal by "not being possible to criminalize successful businesses." [[no]] The paradox is that assets other than shares of KARBON INVEST which have not been found have been identified and partly secured in criminal proceedings. In this matter, the commission of inquiry has come to the conclusion that Mr Suchý may have committed an offence of abuse of authority by a public official, and has therefore filed a criminal report on this matter. In this case, it has already been notified to the Commission of the fact that, in the opinion of the prosecutor, this is not a criminal offence. So now I would move on to the second point, and that was to verify the privatisation of a minority stake. To begin with, the situation in which the government of Vladimír Špidla was in was not ideal. The minority share did not allow it to control OKD and, moreover, the majority shareholders did not allow the State to have its representatives in the company's executive and supervisory bodies. On the other hand, the minority share allowed the adoption of fundamental decisions that would have a negative effect on OKD. A qualified minority of around 45 percent of the share of OKD's capital allowed the State to defend its shareholders' rights, including the right to a share of the company's profits. The State was not in distress and it was KARBON INVEST, which insisted on selling the minority stake of the State rather than vice versa. The political decision of the Government of Vladimír Špidla on the sale of OKD shares proposed by the procedure was adopted on 23 April 2003 despite the fact that a number of members of the Government expressed doubts about privatisation. An interesting finding is that the government's actions in privatising the minority share were subsequently opposed to privatisation under the given conditions by non-economic ministers. Here I would appreciate the attitude of Pavel Dostál, who was interested in the fates of the apartments, and whether they were valued by subsidiaries. Minister Petra Buzková pointed out the low-quality draft privatisation agreement. Marie Součková sought to take into account the price of subsidiaries. As is clear to the laymen, it was clear that the transaction showed fundamental shortcomings. In any event, the objections have not been taken into account and the proposal has been voted on. This decision was subsequently implemented by responsible finance minister Bohuslav Sobotka and Minister of Industry and Trade Milan Urban. On the basis of the findings of the commission of inquiry, it can be concluded that the State did not exercise sufficient diligence and due diligence in this sale. The decision to open the exclusive negotiations on the sale of shares with the majority shareholder of OKD, KARBON INVEST, was already flawed. This decision, which was justified by the efforts to ensure the stabilisation of OKD and the related preservation of jobs, was perhaps well intended, but was based on naive trust and, in particular, a completely wrong prediction of future developments. A few months later, even before the signing of the privatisation agreement, there was a secret, from the point of view of the commission of inquiry, the fraudulent conduct of the owners of KARBON INVEST against the government of their secret negotiations on the sale of shares of KARBON INVEST to Mr Bakala and spol. Thanks to the government's decision to privatise OKD shares by addressing a single partner, the state has deprived itself of the possibility of obtaining the market value of the OKD share package sold in this way. Such a procedure was not hindered, on the contrary, it is a procedure which is also desirable in terms of assessing possible public aid. The analysis of the time sequence of the various steps on the part of the government shows that the State has not demonstrated any real effort to establish the market value of the OKD shares that it has decided to sell. The expert opinion and other documents were apparently processed in time constraints, in poor quality and apparently with the intention to arrive at the lowest possible price of the shares sold. Although there were doubts as to the accuracy of the price established on the basis of the assessment and the conduct during the government's proceedings, competent persons did nothing to obtain market value for the shares. I'd like to pause for a moment for that expert opinion. The expert opinion also contained a number of obvious errors from the layman's point of view, so the committee of inquiry asked the expert college established by the Ministry of Justice of the Czech Republic in the field of valuation of the company to comment on the assessment. The expert college concluded that the opinion was suffering from serious defects and assessed it with the lowest possible sign. Although the expert was exempted in criminal proceedings, the Commission of inquiry considers, in view of its findings, that the courts did not take into account all the facts. Since the consequences of this negotiation could be serious in the event of his absence for the Czech economy and the state's management, she decided to initiate the Minister of Justice to consider a complaint for the violation of the law in this case. According to the findings of the investigating commission, the National Property Fund has completely resigned from critical assessment of the conclusions of the expert opinion or expert of the valuation method used. The National Property Fund has also taken a completely negligent approach to the formulation of the award for experts and has been late in the processing of the expert opinion. It is the procedure of the National Property Fund to obtain any poor quality expert economic opinion that the real interest was not to obtain an objective and competent view of the value of the shares sold but merely formally created the evidence. [[11.30 hours]] Control systems by the Ministry of Finance, respectively. The Minister of Finance, as a superior body, has failed completely in this matter. The time sequence of individual events also suggests that Mr Sobotka and Mr Urban tried to complete the process of selling shares of OKD before the Czech Republic joined the European Union. The likely reason was the attempt to avoid control processes by the European Union institutions, thereby extending or threatening the entire sale. This plan was thwarted by the IOHS, which, by its decision, did not allow an exemption from the prohibition of public aid. The privatisation agreement concluded in spring 2004 was never valid. According to the Government's resolution at the end of 2003, Sobotka and Urban ministers were to propose privatisation of public competitions in the event of a failure of negotiations. [[This can also be considered to be the failure to grant an exemption from the prohibition of public aid, stating that the sale of the government-approved privatisation price constitutes an advantage and constitutes public aid.]] Exclusiveity for KARBON INVEST was valid until the end of March 2004 and has never been extended. Despite the fact that KARBON INVEST did not have an exclusive - he lost it in March 2004 - and other entities were interested in the state's ownership in OKD, ministers Sobotka and Urban dealt only with KARBON INVEST. The privatisation of OKD was therefore completed in September 2004, when the government of Stanislav Gross again decided to sell OKD shares to the acquirer, namely KARBON INVEST. The investigation committee found that long before the government's meeting, the Ministry of Finance and the National Property Fund received legal analyses by Allen & Overy law firms recommending the publication of a tender for the sale of the State's share of OKD. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Finance did not provide the Government with information on this expert recommendation of the legal adviser. It follows from the chronology of individual events that the dominant interest was to sell the minority share of the State in OKD as quickly as possible. This conclusion leads not only to the documented procedure of the Minister Sobotka, but also to the absence of any relevant analytical and professional materials which would deal in detail with a number of preliminary legal or economic aspects that were required to be examined prior to the signing of the contract. The evidence examined by the Commission of inquiry showed that the petitioner, Minister Sobotka, admitted during the March government meeting that he did not seek to maximize the price, as the acquirer might have a problem financing the entire privatisation. The final price set at the Government's September meeting was not based on any reviewable basis, it was the result of the offer of KARBON INVEST and the discussion of the members of the Government for a sum of 4.1 billion. The koruna, because it looked better than 4 billion. and 1 mil. Crowns. In this case, I would use the words of Minister Bureš to illustrate the situation: "You will be sitting on a press conference, Prime Minister, and the question of the journalist will be: "Well, we appreciate the government, which will say 4 billion 100 million, but why not 5 billion 100 million? Where do you support this conclusion that you will set the price, ignoring the time limit, etc., as follows?" In addition to the low activity to determine the actual market value of the shares sold, the total resignation of the contracting authorities of these assessments can also be noted for the critical assessment of the conclusions of the expert advisors. VOX CONSULT's expert opinion shows such significant shortcomings that no special vocational training is necessary to identify them. Nevertheless, this assessment was accepted by the contracting authority. The careless or even intentional approach of the state and its legal advisors has enabled private entities, shareholders of KARBON INVEST, or entities controlled directly or indirectly by Zdeněk Bakala to enrich themselves by billions at the expense of the state. Except for the enrichment of private individuals at the expense of the State by the so-called method. The "business incest" was also deceived by thousands of tenants in the housing fund under the administration of OKD, who reasonably expected, based on the comments of the owners of KARBON INVEST, to be able to buy flats at a discounted price. The failure to fulfil the publicly made promises caused a legitimate sense of injustice for tenants of these apartments who later lodged a complaint with the European Commission for unlawful aid. And that's when the apartments were valued at 40 grand. CZK per apartment, although it did not correspond to the price in place and time usual. The provisions of the privatisation agreement, which enshrined the pre-emptive right of the tenants, were from the original strict form, which Bohuslav Sobotka sent to the National Property Fund, which practically made it impossible to carry out the housing fund, amended to an unenforceable and useless formulation most likely processed by the lawyer of the KARBON INVEST Group Petra Nováková, which was subsequently accepted by Bohuslav Sobotka by submitting this version for discussion by the government. It was not a government that eventually formulated restrictive conditions, but KARBON INVEST along with the FNM. I mean, the procedure that was the opposite of logical. In other words, Bohuslav Sobotka did not ensure that the liabilities of KARBON INVEST, flats, employment, etc. were legally guaranteed from the wording of the contract by the persons acting on behalf of KARBON INVEST, i.e. Mr. Koláček and Otava. At the same time, social commitments and stability of OKD were the reasons for OKD being sold to the existing majority owner under exclusive conditions. On behalf of KARBON INVEST, FNM negotiated a contract for the sale of shares of OKD gentlemen Koláček and Otava. However, it should be noted that the final price they presented at the government meeting in March is 2.25 billion. CZK, agreed by Bohuslav Sobotka and Milan Urban, which is in direct conflict with what Milan Urban claimed before the commission of inquiry and before the court. From a number of public statements by representatives of the state, it was clear that the main reason for OKD negotiations with KARBON INVEST was the interest of the State to continue to manage OKD by the owner of KARBON INVEST. The State therefore relied on the sale of the shares of KARBON INVEST's shareholders, and the owners of this company were for the State, employees and residents of the region by guaranteeing that the activity would be maintained to the original extent. Despite the fact that Mr Koláček and Mr Otava were aware of the state's interest in leading OKD, both of the appointed parties negotiated in secret with CHARLES CAPITAL on the sale of KARBON INVEST, which was to be the bearer of the obligations required by the State. These gentlemen's actions against the state can be described as fraudulent. Both appointed were aware that the government started exclusive negotiations on the sale of shares with their controlled company precisely because of their personal participation in OKD's business. Both gentlemen therefore discussed the purchase of shares with the government and, at the same time, secretly negotiated the sale of their owned company to Mr Bakal. It is reasonable to assume that the government would have acted differently in 2004 when selling OKD shares, if it were known that Mr Koláček and Mr Otava did not intend to guarantee the obligations imposed by KARBON INVEST in the share sale contract. As a result of the government's actions, the sale of shares at a significantly lower market price, e.g. according to an assessment of the value of the shares in settlement with minority shareholders, which was created subsequently. The buyer's commitments were formulated in general and were not objectively measurable and the formulation of these commitments did not guarantee their effective enforcement. The contract was significantly influenced by the acquirer. The amount of the contractual fines did not correspond to the importance of the guaranteed commitment of the contract and did not foresee any changes in the normal human or corporate organisational nature in practice and was based on the misconception that the buyer would continue to be controlled by Mr Koláček and Mr Otava, while some entities already knew about the negotiations between them and Bakala. The relevant Security Information Service officer has refused to testify before the Commission of Investigation on account of possible criminal penalties against his/her own person. This worker took up a significant role in KARBON INVEST shortly after privatisation. From an institutional point of view, the Ministry of Finance and the FNM are responsible for the Government's approach. Its responsibility is also borne by the Office for the Protection of Competition as an independent government authority which, in the context of the public aid exemption procedure, was not to set a price at all in the grounds but to request its objective findings. The OOHS has set the market price with regard to the documents submitted, the view, the assessment and the determination of the value according to the Penty P67 document, which, as the findings of the commission of inquiry show, are not correct, true or complete. It follows logically that even the price stated in the statement of reasons by the UOHS cannot be correct. The external advisors of government - in particular Allen & Overy, Komerční banka and VOX CONSULT - have a significant share of the liability for access to the sale of shares. [[11.40 hours]] So I would like to pause for a moment at the valuation of the housing fund. The members of the commission of inquiry, as well as tens of thousands of tenants in the Moravian-Silesian Region, wondered how the large housing fund owned by OKD was taken into account in privatisation. First, the investigating committee dealt with the price set in the expert opinion, which determined the market price of the flat in the apartment building at CZK 40,000 on the basis of the comparative method, because this price is very low at first sight. The expert compared the sale of apartment buildings in Třinc, in which OKD did not own any real estate. As it follows from the documents available to the Commission of Investigation, the purchase price in this transaction was not CZK 40,000, but CZK 56,000. Due to serious doubts about the price of flats in the Ostrava-Karvin district, the investigating committee asked the municipalities at which prices both the apartments were privatized by individual buyers and apartment buildings to housing associations until 2004. On the basis of the interaction with the municipality, the Commission found that the apartments, as units and as parts of the housing houses, were sold twice as much as was established in the privatisation expert's assessment. Moreover, these sales were made at a large discount, often including 60 per cent, compared to any expert reports which determined the market price. For example, in the case of Ostrava-Poruba, the estimated prices in 2004 ranged between CZK 150 to 200,000 and were transferred to tenants for CZK 60,000, but after a discount. Even OKD itself sold apartments in Finnish houses for CZK 60,000 before 2004, i.e. about 50 per cent more than these flats were valued for. After privatisation, OKD carried out a small sale of real estate in accordance with the privatisation agreement. After privatisation in 2004, OKD sold apartments in Finnish houses at an average price of CZK 149 000, i.e. for more than three times what they were valued for. In 2005, OKD sold 199 flats in Finnish houses, the average price being similar - CZK 140 000. In addition, the Ministry of Finance, as part of its participation in the procedure for unlawful State aid in 2010, had two expert opinions drawn up to determine the market price of flats on the date of privatisation. The first assessment of the Facility Transactions, a. s., appreciated the value of the housing fund on the basis of the yield method to CZK 3.7 billion, which means some CZK 83,000 per apartment, with the market price for the sale of apartment buildings being less than CZK 6.5 billion, i.e. approximately CZK 145,000 per apartment. The established market price of the housing fund, free of liabilities, was set at more than CZK 18 billion by the expert institute. The second assessment of the TACOMA expert institute, a. s., awarded apartments with a yield method of CZK 3.5 billion, i.e. approximately CZK 80,000 per apartment. The indication of the price of the flats mentioned in the expert's opinion is therefore pointless and it can be assumed that at first sight it is evident that it is probably also quite false. Given the number of flats sold, the overall price differences and the damage caused by the State are huge. In this context, it should be dealt with the frequent argument that the valuation was not the apartments but the shares of OKD, where the State had a minority stake. To this end, it can be said that real estate does not change value depending on who owns it, and the valuation of shares should have been properly carried out and correctly reflected in the values of this large non-production property, in the value of OKD shares, so that government members can qualify for privatisation, which also applies to other assets, and that an exclusive acquirer is not granted an economic advantage. In the original draft privatisation agreement voted by the government at its March meeting, there were no provisions on the housing fund and the promoter Bohuslav Sobotka did not deal with it before the government acted. In the absence of a solution to the housing fund, as I have already said, Minister of Culture Pavel Dostál. The provisions relating to the housing fund came into the privatisation contract only on the basis of the deposit letter of Minister Sobotka, which he imposed on the National Property Fund, that, among other things, after five years, the buyer would prefer to sell parts of the housing fund to tenants at the prices specified by the expert opinion. Unfortunately, it did not explicitly contain an obligation to separate housing units and thus create an opportunity to offer them for sale. According to the statement of the then Minister of Finance Bohuslav Sobotka in front of the commission of inquiry, a letter was based on the political level of the ČSSD, which resulted in the above requirements. The Commission considers that the requirement for a preferential sale after the expiry of the five-year period implies that the sale of flats should have started after five years, with the housing being offered to the tenants as a priority. However, no such thing was enshrined in the covenant. Requirements in the deposit letter were processed by Allen & Overy Radek's attorney In such a way that the buyer was to define the housing units in his apartment buildings and offer them to tenants when the transfer took place, while the acquirer was to refrain from anything that would prevent the exercise of the pre-emptive right. Although such a structure did not fulfil the original purpose of the deposit letter, it could effectively prevent and speculate with it. Unfortunately, this already weakened provision was further amended with the most likely legal representative of KARBON INVEST JUDr. Petra Nováková, who was in charge of negotiating the contract for KARBON INVEST. Unfortunately, the investigation committee failed to investigate this in detail, as Dr Nováková referred to all matters after 2007 to her confidentiality. Anything that was before 2007, so at the moment she referred to the possibility that she might be threatened by any criminal penalties. The final form of the contractual terms relating to the housing fund was subsequently approved by Bohuslav Sobotka despite the fact that it was fundamentally different from those laid down by his letter of deposit. In questioning the witness Bohuslav Sobotka, he stated that the conditions which were incorporated into the contract and related to the management of the housing fund were to provide tenants with pre-emptive rights at an advantageous price without a time limit. [[objective]] The aim of these conditions was not to force the owners of the apartments to sell them in some time-defined period. The commission of inquiry believes that the objective could not have been achieved just at the time of the anchoring of this item. This results from the simple logic of the matter that has already been mentioned. What reasonable entrepreneur would, of his own volition, allow the pre-emptive right to be realized under such conditions if he had already promised it in advance? The only way to ensure the realization of the pre-emptive right would, in the opinion of the Commission, be the untied condition that the acquirer must offer the apartments for sale by a certain date. In this case, the commission of inquiry assessed the actions of Bohuslav Sobotka as serious misconduct. The Commission also found that Residomo currently owns the housing fund, a. s., and that the company is not bound by the privatisation agreement obligations or by any other means is not ensured by the fulfilment of the privatisation agreement obligations under Article 7.6 by RPG Industries, which is therefore the successor company of KARBON INVEST since Residomo, s. r. o. is no longer part of the BXR holding and is probably owned by another final owner. [[s. r. o.?]] The investigating committee considers that the conditions laid down in Chapter 7 of the privatisation agreement may be violated, while the Ministry of Finance has not yet applied the relevant contractual penalty and has not applied any other legal action. The investigating committee recalls that according to the Act on Property of the Czech Republic, the organisational components of the state are obliged to enforce contractual fines and other rights. In addition, it cannot be excluded that the conduct of RPG Industries can be regarded as an intention to undermine the conditions under Section 549 of the Civil Code, which states that if it deliberately fails, without being authorised to do so, to fulfil the conditions of the party which fulfils the conditions for the benefit, the condition is deemed to be fulfilled. In the opinion of the Commission, the provisions of Article 7.6 (a) of the privatisation agreement, which provided that OKD would properly manage and maintain the housing fund of the company, were also violated. However, due to the restructuring carried out, this condition was not met as the housing fund ended up in the management of a completely different company, albeit successor, with another IČO. Unfortunately, no contractual penalty was agreed for the Czech Republic in case of breach of this condition. The fact that the share in OKD was privatized in fact by entrepreneurs around Zdeněk Bakala aroused resentment among other interested parties for this share, especially for groups J&T and Penta. In 2005, Penta Finance, a. s. filed a complaint against privatisation with the European Commission on grounds of illegal public support. The European Commission asked the Czech Republic on the basis of this complaint. She asked four questions in total concerning the privatisation process and to which the Ministry of Finance should have answered. [[11.50 hours]] However, the investigating committee found that the real author of the reply was not the Ministry of Finance and its officials, but the lawyers of the law firm Pokorný, Wagner & partners, as it follows from the documents examined, it was probably Radek Pokorný and Richard Wagner. At the time, Pokorný, Wagner & Partners represented the OKD shareholder, KARBON INVEST, and defended his interests. The reply was only formally modified by the officials and sent to the European Commission in response to the Ministry of Finance. The principle of loyalty, which, in the opinion of the Commission of inquiry, has been infringed on this point, applies to the Member States. The fact itself is undoubtedly totally unacceptable, but the answer which this law firm has actually processed contains incorrect, misleading and false information, while concealing other, rather substantial information. Untrue information relates in particular to expert opinions, market prices and transactions between the owners of KARBON INVEST, Viktor Koláček and Mr Otava and Charles Capital. The Commission of Investigation considers that the disclosure of false information may have resulted from certain persons, including lawyers, in the commission of a criminal offence of fraud or in the injury of foreign rights. In the case of the lawyers concerned, this may also be a violation of the ethical standards of the profession. This complaint was followed in January 2008 by another complaint lodged by the tenants' association, and again this complaint was addressed to the European Commission for the same reason as the first complaint. The Czech Republic should have answered the questions of the European Commission concerning privatisation. Compared to the previous case, the Czech Republic has hired an international law firm CMS Cameron Mc Kenna to handle the answer. As in the previous case, in the context of the processing of the reply, cooperation took place with the legal representatives of the acquirer, namely with the Brussels law firm Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton, including the fact that non-public documents were provided to this law firm on a non-standard basis. The Ministry of Finance also cooperated with expert Rudolf Doucha of VOX CONSULT, who prepared the original, according to the commission of inquiry, an untrue expert opinion, and tried to defend him in this reply and which subsequently faced criminal prosecution. As in the previous case, the Commission considers that the Ministry of Finance has provided misleading, inaccurate and false information, while other essential and important information has been withheld from the European Commission. Untrue or misleading information was provided by the Ministry, in particular with regard to expert opinion, other valuations or income of the housing fund of the OKD. The Commission of Investigation considers that the disclosure of false information may have led to the commission of some persons, including lawyers, the commission of a criminal offence of fraud or the harm to foreign rights or the offence of obstruction of the task of an official of negligence. In the case of the lawyers concerned, this may also be a violation of the ethical standards of the profession. In the above cases, the European Commission did not find that the privatisation of OKD contained elements of State aid. The commission of inquiry considers that its conclusions were based on incorrect information provided by the beneficiary of the share share and the recipient of any income from the transaction. The investigating committee considers that the Czech Republic should comply with the principle of Art. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 3 The EU Treaty and provide the European Commission with objective, true and relevant data, together with the estimated unlawful public aid granted to KARBON INVEST in 2004. The European Commission, having determined, where appropriate, that its decision could be based on false facts, may repeal the decision already taken under Union law. This could already have been initiated in the past. The last part of the investigation committee was the reasons for the collapse of OKD. After the takeover of KARBON INVEST and OKD, the new owners began to carry out property transfers and to change the structure of OKD. The financial flows were ignored, the creation of a high item of valuation differences and the removal of the housing fund from OKD. These facts lead the Commission to believe that this is the beginning of the end of OKD. Given that the buyer in Article 2 (1) (a) of Directive 2014/65/EU does not have the right to adopt or maintain any delegated acts in accordance with Article 3 (1) (b) of Directive 2014/65/EU or Article 4 (1) (b) of Directive 2014/65/EU or Article 4 (2) of Directive 2014/65/EU or Article 4 (2) of Directive 2014/65/EU or Article 4 (2) of Directive 2014/65/EU or Article 4 (2) of Directive 2014/65/EU or Article 4 (2) of Directive 2014/65/EU or Article 4 (2) of Directive 2014/65/EU or Article 4 (2) of Directive 2014/65/EU or Article 4 (1) of Directive 2014/65/EU, Article 4 (1) (b) of Directive 2014/65/EU or Article 4 (1) of Directive 2014/65/EU, Article 4 (1) of Directive 2014/65/EU, Article 5 (1) of Directive 2014/65/EU or Article 5 (1) of Directive 2014/65/EU, Article 5 (1) of Directive 2014/65/EU, Article 4 (1) of Directive 2014/65/EU, Article 5 (2) of Directive 2014/65/EU, Article 5 (2) of Directive 2014/65/EU, Article 5 (1) of Directive 2014/65/EU shall be replaced by Regulation (EU, Euratom/EU, Article 5 (1) of the European Parliament and Article 5 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 5 (1) of the Council Regulation (EU) No 5 (1) of the Council Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. It should be said that in the context of this restructuring, the merger of OKD and OKD Entrepreneurship took place. OKD Business was not valued in the previous expert opinion, even though it was held or in which approximately 3 billion were deposited. CZK in bank notes, which can be converted into cash very quickly. The expert could verify this information without visiting the data room publicly, and yet this information was not included in his expert opinion or in Komerční banka's view. These funds amount to 3 billion. CZK then became the funds that were paid out on OKD's dividends, and at this time the owner, Charles Capital, has used it to pay for the loans granted to OKD in order to control KARBON INVEST. Therefore, there is quite a suspicion that OKD was really dominated by its own money. OKD submitted an application for the opening of insolvency proceedings on 3. 5. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 5. 2016 decided on its bankruptcy. The bankruptcy declaration was preceded by the following basic circumstances. The reason for the insolvency application was the amount of liabilities of 17,2 billion. CZK and value of property only 6,7 billion. Kč. The commitments include guarantees and co-debting within the NWR group of 11,6 billion. Kč. Zdeněk Bakala Group has taken over the minority stake of OKD at the price of 4.1 billion. CZK and led from it to abroad at least 65 billion. CZK, therefore, before the company caused bankruptcy and de facto handed it back into the hands of the state. The owner of the NWR has removed the maximum from the company and the decline in mining, including the possible end of mining, has left the Czech Republic, which bought the coal mining and processing into the state company PRISKO. The controlling shareholder of OKD, NWR of Mr.Bakaly and Co., preferred the payment of dividends. The company showed high stocks of coal extracted and did not create reserves for cyclical development or for the decline of the company, which was well known to both OKD and owners. Although NWR was no longer identified in the annual report for 2008, such a detailed risk management assessment was not identified in the annual reports, it correctly identified the risks of cyclical development, i.e. the start of the crisis, neither the reserves nor any adjustments to the profit on the risks associated with the disposal or the risks associated with the fall in the prices of coal and neither the provision for the expected irreversible decline in mining. The price of black coal at 31. 12. 2004 was $55 and exceeded $80 at the time of the insolvency proposal. When the sales and prices of coal fell, the company did not have any reserves from which it would be able to overcome negative developments. This crucial breakthrough began in early 2012. However, in this year a dividend of more than 6 billion was agreed and paid. Kč. This, in the opinion of the Commission of inquiry, is contrary to the care of a proper economic operator. To bridge the liquidity situation - the price of coal started to rise in the second half of 2016 - it took 1-2 billion. Kč. However, they were not provided by the parent company NWR. During the period of control of NWR, OKD paid at least 65 billion dividends in total. Crowns. It is only calculated here since 2006, because we tried to estimate other transfers between OKD. Some media speculated on the amount of up to 100 billion. Crowns. In order to be able to pay dividends, OKD gradually took loans from NWR. OKD was therefore a highly profitable company, which was not prepared by the owners and management for the decline in mining and the arrival of the negative period, although according to the documentation, both NWR and OKD had a serious reason to create reserves and adjustments. The OKD was also affected by the NWR guarantee and co-debting of loans. The maximumisation of dividend payments and loans to NWR led the company into insolvency during the crisis period and forced the management of the company to submit an insolvency proposal. [[12.00 hours]] Therefore, as I have already mentioned, OKD did not create the resulting amount of reserves, although it already presents high risks in the risk management area in the 2008 NWR annual report. This was not reflected in the creation of OKD reserves. Consequently, internal information on the risks associated with the complex situation in world coal markets, including the negative outlook, can be found in the 2012 OKD Annual Report. Furthermore, OKD was not managed too economically, e.g. The salary paid to one manager in 2010 and 2011 was always above CZK 100 million, even though I warned, even though this manager strongly underestimated the need to create reserves for future problematic periods. The decline in coal prices was not a material reason for OKD's insolvency because coal as a commodity is subject to cyclical development, at times of a positive economic cycle mining and processing are highly profitable, at a negative stage of the cycle the activity may be temporarily loss-making, but for this period the company is to make reserves. However, the years 2010 to 2011 and 2012 deserve special attention. It was therefore the last profit period and, at the same time, the last years of dividend payments. For the first time, the 2012 Annual Report contains passages that assess the adverse situation and express concerns for the following period. At the beginning of 2013, management changed and then in 2013 significant adjustments were made and coal stocks were re-evaluated. World prices for coal began to fall already in 2011. Although the company was aware of market effects in 2012, it paid dividends for 2010 and 2011 virtually at the level of profit after tax, i.e. 12.1 billion. Kč. A separate chapter is an assessment of the long-term outlook for coal mining. It is known that the company has been aware for many years of the fact that it will gradually have to deal with the reduction of coal mining and gradually with the cessation of coal mining, which is economically demanding and requires the creation of adjustments or reserves for depreciation of assets, costs associated with the downturn, including the cost of the social programme. The costs of limiting mining were addressed by OKD until 2013 only in the context of annual management. The company was very likely already in insolvency during 2013. And by the fact that the situation has not improved in the following year, it is undeniable that the proposal for insolvency should have been filed substantially before 2016. The declared decrease in liabilities to the parent company between 2013 and 2015 and the justification for deferment of claims for insolvency raises suspicion of unfair practices, such as the preference of the creditor or fraudulent conduct in order to ensure that the parent company repays its claims. While OKD stopped paying dividends at the time of the decline in sales, it was likely to pay almost all the loans granted from NWR's parent company. As of 31. 12. 2013 reported liabilities after maturity 1.1 billion. CZK and 31. 12. 2014 already in the amount of 7,717 million. Crowns. As of 31. 12. 2013 OKD shows an obligation to the parent company of 12,941 million. (?) CZK, 31. 12. the company has a liability to the parent company of 5,7 billion. koruna, less than, which is a decrease of more than 70 percent. The NWR increased its core capital by 1.22 billion. Crowns. In the financial statements for 2015, there is a commitment to the shareholders of CZK zero, and the text states that the commitment of CZK 5.692 billion. has been capitalized on 7. 7. 2015, but there is no change in the capital in the balance sheet. At the same time, loans from shareholders of 1,469 billion are listed in the text. CZK and in another place 2,553 billion. Crowns. According to BDO, the audit is at 9. 5. 2016 commitment to the controlling person 1.7 billion. Crowns. The different figures cannot be explained from the annual report. The reduction of claims occurred during the period when OKD sold its own claims in order to improve cash flows. It follows that the company has delayed its activities in order to enable NWR to pay off its liabilities and this commitment has been repaid to NWR at the expense of other creditors. OKD was also a co-debtor or guarantor of NWR's liabilities. The company under the ownership of the NWR did not show any signs of a failure of a business plan consisting in coal mining and processing, and therefore this cannot be an argument for defaulting on financial liabilities. The problem of the economic recovery of coal, the stocks on individual mines were monitored by the company. The company did not create reserves or adjustments for the downturn until 2013. The company has long been showing high stocks of coal extracted up to 2012. In the 2012 Annual Report, the company lists stocks according to the JORC methodology of more than 184 million. tonnes of coal, and in the following year only 64 million. tonnes of coal, which is a decrease of about 65 percent. This manipulation of coal reserves was able to mislead shareholders and small investors and allowed high dividend payments. This is another indication of the negative effect of the NWR. Information on a great perspective according to the annual reports of world coal prices, coal reserves and other NWR and OKD outlooks gives rise to reasonable suspicion of misrepresentation of data in trade or fraudulent behaviour. This is without prejudice to the fact that the NWR draws attention to risks in its annual report, but does not make adjustments and provisions in any form. OKD did not have any loans from banks but was financed by short-term loans from the parent company at an disproportionately high price. However, due to significant profitability, the company did not need any funding. In addition to the dividend strategy, as we can call it, the provision of intra-business loans can be assessed as a disadvantageous strategy. The company prematurely paid commercial loans from banks and did not pay them by loans from the parent company at significantly higher rates. [[replace it?]] The annual reports for 2014 and 2015 state that the OKD provided guarantees for issued bonds amounting to 300 million. EUR, guarantee for the loan of the parent company of EUR 35 million. EUR and is a co-debtor of a loan drawn by the NWR of 48 billion. EUR. [[provides?]] The reason for the insolvency proposal of the management of the company was precisely liabilities under these guarantees. The payment of dividends in excess of the profits of the company cannot be considered as a prudent procedure. The transfer of the volume of profit in the form of dividends and the repayment of the loans of the parent company can be assessed from the point of view of negligence or awareness, since they are participants with a large economic erudition and co-operating with renovated advisers who should be aware of the outcome. This can therefore be considered as the introduction of the company into insolvency. In the light of the above, it is necessary for law enforcement authorities to investigate whether, in particular, transactions involving the reduction of OKD's assets by the payment of dividends and the repayment of the parent company's loans have not committed offences of infringement in the management of foreign property, of bankruptcy, of misrepresentation of economic and property data, fraud or advantage or damage to the creditor. The investigating committee also considers that the law enforcement authorities should investigate the guarantees for NWR loans and co-debting with the NWR, whether it is not a disadvantageous transaction for OKD from the point of view of criminal liability, since OKD was the beneficiary of loans from the NWR for disproportionately high interest and at the same time was a co-debtor and guarantor for these loans, which was the reason for the application for insolvency. Financing from the parent company under more disadvantageous conditions than that on which it was financed in the financial market should be assessed from the point of view of breach of the obligation to manage foreign property and tax crime, since interest paid may be included in the costs up to the maximum amount at the place and time usual. In addition, loans were used to improve cash flows and thus to pay dividends. [[12.10 hours]] At the same time, an assessment of KPMG's activity as a cooperating person assisting the owner and management in their activities can be recommended. The KPMG auditor, which audited both OKD and NWR throughout this period, practically only followed or reflected the texts of the OKD annual reports in his annual accounts and annual reports. Its activities can be assessed as inconsistent, irresponsible and helping owners and management to realise their personal interests. I would like to thank you for your attention. I tried to sum up the case in the shortest possible time. And I would like to suggest - or I will suggest it later - that if we did not have time to discuss this point by 13:00, if we could still deal with it after 6:00 p.m., after the oral questioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-002-285.u3	Yes. I have noted the procedural proposal here, so we should vote on it, if that is today, if we do not discuss it, so that we should still discuss this point after 6:00 p.m. But that's the draft change of the program.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-002-285.u4	Good noon. I'd modify it after the interpelling, not fix it firmly after 6:00, but after the interpelling.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-002-285.u5	Okay. I just hesitated a little, 'cause I didn't hear that kind of agreement between the deputies, so I just gave some room to see if anyone was gonna call. But I'll put it to a vote. So I'm gonna go on. I'll sign you off, sign up with your voting cards again. We will give some room for Members to come, because this is an important vote. I'm just going to repeat what we're going to vote on. The President of the Commission, Mr Černohorský, proposes that we continue to discuss this point, that is, the Final Report of the OKD Investigation Commission, in the event that it would not be discussed by 13:00, so that we continue to discuss this afternoon after the end of the intercession. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 172, registered by 114 Members, for 90, against 2. The motion was accepted. Now I'll read the apologies. Mr Jiří Mihola apologizes today from 9 am to 11 pm, subsequently from 14.30 pm to the end of the day for working reasons, Mrs Helena Válková apologizes between 11 pm and 13 pm because of a doctor's visit, Mrs Barbora Kořanová apologises between 17 pm and midnight for working reasons, and Mr Juříček apologizes today from 14.30 pm to the end of the day for working reasons. The Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek will now speak with priority rights. I'll give you priority rights, Minister, please. The rapporteur, Mrs Pavla Golasowská, will then speak. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-002-285.u6	Thank you. Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to apologize a little bit for slamming you with our Ostrava history. But I'd just like to remind you that it really means a lot to us. The history of Ostrava mines, the use of coal there goes back to the 18th century. In the 19th century in 1830 Rudolf's hut was built. Just so you know, the mines aren't just the socialist period. This is much longer, it is 150 years and the history of Salomon Rothschild's entry, which began to build Vítkovický železárny there. And the coal, of course, was a condition. Because when Rothschild found out that there was water, that there was coal, and when they led the railroad, Ferdinand's track, they actually created the conditions for developing the entire industrial agglomeration that we lived with. You're probably thinking I'm not exactly a miner. That's right, I'm not a miner, but my father worked as a racing doctor in the rustles, so the history of heavy industry is really important to us. And OKD history is actually 30 years of history, and a little bit of history 30 years of OKD is in something that was happening in this country after 1989. It's actually, in a nutshell, a characteristic example of how the economy developed here. So I'm actually really glad that I could sit on that committee, and it's true that the committee has gathered a huge amount of information, we've heard, as you've noticed, 49 witnesses. I myself actually came into this with some knowledge, because I actually moved around the history of OKD alternately for over 30 years. And it was very valuable to me because I actually corrected my opinions about something, I even found out about something, I began to see things more clearly, more precisely than ever, and I was actually quite grateful for getting the opportunity. Because it was a balance sheet for me for almost 30 years of one major political cause and event in the region. However, I will try to speak plainly because I am aware that the purpose of this commission's work is to make something of it so that we can get something out of it and that the history of this gigantic enterprise, which was actually the largest enterprise in Ostrava at all and which, in fact, more or less, the history ends simply because we are simply running out of coal. I think that history makes sense not only to our region. So that's why I'm glad I graduated, and I'm such a weird member of the committee, because I've been on that committee all this time and almost all this time until the end, but at the end, I had to leave the committee because I found myself in executive employment, that's well known. So I'm just explaining that I'm a member of the committee, and I'm not, because I wasn't there for that conclusion. And I actually know that I've made it clear that with some of the conclusions and some of the things that the committee says in the report, I disagree, and my story of the OKD seems a little different than the one described in the committee. This does not mean that the commission did not do the job, and I think that the members were led in a number of cases by the best intentions to come up - and we discussed this a lot - in the effort to get to the way things were. Well, as it happens, it just doesn't always have to meet the opinions. But I repeat, for me, the committee had a lot of meaning. Then all I have to do is try to do some of the things that I've made clear and understood here, to tell you here, and maybe to tell you what I don't think what the investigation committee is writing is gonna hold up. And it's important to get this straight. That is why we need to avoid creating false expectations again, because the history of OKD is also the creation of a history of false expectations. Just when I was talking about Mr. Bakal, that's one of those moments of the great false expectation that's aroused in people, some hope that they'll be able to buy apartments, which they didn't get to. And I would hate for this report to repeat this mistake here, to raise false expectations again. We'd be repeating something that's already been here, and I don't think any of the people who live there deserve it. That is why it seems to me that it is also important to clarify exactly what we can say and what we can't say and what it will hold. And then I also get to do what I think needs to be done to avoid repeating the mistakes of yesterday. I'm just gonna tell you -- because I'm gonna try to talk so you can understand me, and I'm not gonna burden that performance so you can listen to it at all. So I worked together, turned to a number of experts. I worked mostly with Dr. Ivan Přikryl, so some of the things I'm going to say here, if you're interested in more detailed legal arguments, you'll find it on the Czech Justice server. And I swear here that I will speak in such a way that you understand what I'm saying a little bit. 'Cause otherwise, I don't think there's any point. [[12.20 hours]] Maybe I can give you a first example of what I think is a dangerous false expectation that this report creates and which I want to reject because it's dangerous. For example, the Commission is writing such a thing - and it is at the very beginning of the report, I think it is page 4 in which it has such a sentence that - it relates to the fact that, according to the Commission, at the beginning of 1990, the government's decision to put those apartments that are part of the story into the property of OKD, and the Commission of Investigation claims that this was against the law. And she's basing that claim against the law on Law No. 52/1966 Coll. I'll tell you the sentence he's quoting. The sentence is: "The apartments that are used on the basis of the right of personal use of the apartment can only be acquired by their users." That's the sentence of the 1966 Law. I understand something. In fact, some members of the committee have not experienced the socialist period. I myself lived in Ostrava, Poruba, in an apartment in a house that said "being in socialist care of tenants." Everyone here in this House probably doesn't remember, and they don't know that there was a socialism - that the state didn't really care about people owning apartments back then. We were home users. Even those who built houses had them only in personal use, they were not their owners, except those who were until 1948. But otherwise in this country, we were all just users, and there was something called socialist common ownership, or something like that was the exact legal name, as the property was defined at the time. And we're actually all involved in this together. We lived in apartments that were socialist social property. So then he wasn't interested in people becoming owners. And if the law quoted here is read on the next paragraph, then in the next paragraph, after it belongs to those users, you will find another paragraph that says "which apartments are concerned, the government will decide by its regulation." That's from the 1966 law. But the government never accepted that order. Do you understand? So following the 1966 law and believing that the law will serve us to get people property is simply beyond reality. The appeal to the 1966 law is meaningless. It doesn't take into account what happened in 1990. It does not take into account the fact that there have been completely fundamental changes, the social property has actually been abolished, this institute. At that time there were about 1.4 million flats in the country that were managed by national committees, about 400,000 flats that were managed by national businesses. They weren't really owners either, they just had the right to manage. Do you understand? Indeed, there have been revolutionary changes, and this right of management has changed to the right of ownership, and those apartments that belonged to the social property have become apartments whose owners have become municipalities, companies, etc. If we wanted to question it this way, as the report says, it would involve about 2 million flats, and the scope of the operation would be hundreds of billions, even larger than our entire national budget. I'm just saying how curious it would be if it were true. But I repeat - to say what it says, and it says literally in the report, in the report it says, and I think that's what's a little disturbing that she says that the real owner of all these apartments is still the state all the time. Yeah? The OKD apartments. The State shall continue to be the owner at all times. Even today. Well, that's a revolutionary idea, but I'm just saying it won't. Just because they didn't think we couldn't evaluate the 1990 trial like this. I'm telling you this as an example of a statement that I think is not good to broadcast because it creates false expectations again. People say, "Well, it belongs to the state, and the state can give it to us again tomorrow." I'm telling you, and I mean well, I'd like to correct all the injustices, but it's just not like that. We can't do this. No government can ever do that, because I think this analysis is inaccurate. And I say, let's warn ourselves about making false expectations. Telling people again, "we'll give you the apartments tomorrow, it's not a problem," that's just not true. I wish I could, but I can't. So let's not lie to each other and lie to these people. I don't think the members of the committee wanted to lie. They're probably convinced they've got it rigged. I'm telling you that the arguments will not stand up, and I'm saying that it didn't happen at the time that the commission said it was done against the law. But be careful - just because I say this doesn't mean that I think it was okay for the state to treat the apartments between 1990 and 1996. Because I'm convinced that even though OKD was a joint stock company, by 1996 it could basically do a lot with these flats. It could delimit property, separate it and decide specifically to privatize the apartments, so it could have been done, not that it wasn't. Do you understand? What I'm saying is that what the report says is naive is that it belongs to the state doesn't mean that I'm developing everything that happened between 1990 and 1996 because at that time, at these six years, there was really something that could have been done about the apartments. At that time, if the state wanted to, as the majority owner had the leverage, it had the strength in that stock company, given the position it had, that it could have actually decided on the delimitation, it could have decided on a special privatisation of the apartments, could, as far as the 44,000 apartments are concerned, actually find another way to treat them and act like someone who cares about the roof over the heads of the people who live in them. We can ask why it didn't happen, but it's clear that it could have happened at these six years. What I really want to point out here today is that it's only at the age of six. Then I don't think I could do it anymore. Here I think the report describes quite well what happened in 1996. I still want to highlight this because I think that even though the report describes it, I think it doesn't give it exactly the meaning it deserves, because in 1996 there was an absolutely fundamental decision by the state, which, as I see it today, actually decided on the whole problem of flats, and I would almost say once and for all, because - to say it now most simply, as I am able - in 1996, when the price of coal decreased slightly, the state donated 3.5 billion shares to private owners for one crown. With this act, the capital was reduced and the state actually ceased to be a majority owner and lost its ability to intervene in the decision-making of the apartments. And I think the tenants lost their ability to privatize the apartments in 1996 and, for example, their transfer into ownership. I think that for the story of OKD apartments within the history of the whole OKD business, this event that happened in 1996 is absolutely crucial. You'll find it was the government of Václav Klaus and the Minister of Finance of the Kočárník. This government for reasons that were incomprehensible to me, and we asked about them afterwards, I will also tell you what we have learned, and we asked how it was possible that it let this huge property out of its hands by giving 3.5 billion shares for one crown. For me, it seemed scandalous because at that point, the state got rid of its leverage, got rid of its ability to enter, somehow control it, make a decision. And you know what's interesting? I was wondering -- so what do the participants at the time tell us, how does that explain it to us? It was quite new to me. When we asked, we were told that the state didn't really want to keep most of it. Because there was a belief that the state was not a good owner, that it would actually be best if some other private businessman got it and that it would be ideal if someone just bought it, got to the majority, so they didn't really care much, they didn't really want it, they wanted it, they literally wanted the state to lose the ownership to lose the position! Of course, they admitted that they imagined it to be some high-quality owner, capital-equipped, and not that it would become some sort of business incest or some kind of tunneling, making money, how it happened afterwards. I mean, of course, they didn't deny that they'd mind. Do you understand? They didn't defend that it then happened in a way that, as the public said, was tumbling, but they said that they weren't able to watch it at the time, they didn't watch it in the number of privatizations and how they were approached, but actually they - the laxity that was simply given ideologically. [[12.30 hours]] Because--you know? We came from those socialist mutual property relationships, and now we believed that privatization would just be the way. The private business, he'll take care of it. We actually believed that private business would save everything. The real owner comes and he takes care of it. Here was such an ideal belief that by getting the ownership into the hands of one private owner, it would just get hot and it would work, even the businesses in it. It's interesting where we're looking for some criminals who have to confess to how they let themselves be deprived of property, so we found people who said yes to us, but we didn't take it that way. We even wanted the state to lose most of it. So it was political, ideological decisions. Or rather, the ideological and political laxity that was directly part of it. We didn't really care that much. That means, if you want to judge, and I believe it - I don't speak for all of those times, but I believe that many of them, even those we talked to, I believe some of them were convinced that this was actually the right procedure. There's no need to worry about the majority of it, if it's given to some smart new businessman, it'll be good. I'm saying this because I can imagine that it might not have been some premeditated operation on the part of the state, but just that it was an ideal belief that it would actually benefit things. However, from the point of view of today, it's different for us to speak. Today we know that this whole privatisation process, this very casuality in terms of the legal framework and the rules of the game, was, of course, fatal. It led to some kind of discreditation of the trial, we know that now. Today, when one looks back on it, it may be terrified that such a large and strategically important enterprise, connected with the substantial mineral wealth still still has to let go of his hand in such a way that someone will come to take better care of it, because it will simply be a private owner. There's this blind belief that the market and its new private owners are just gonna get it all. Today, it seems incredibly naive, because perhaps I am not alone today, who realizes that without rules, without clear rules, even legal rules, such an idea that only the very creation of profit is salvation, it is meaningless, it has proved that the truth is not. But at that time, if you want to imagine it, it was probably possible. And to some extent, it probably really led the authorities of the state to behave that way and that they were actually failing almost programmatically. The whole history of OKD, as I've been familiar with it for the past 30 years, is actually such a history of failing a state, where businessmen who are much better prepared for private, lawyers' equipment, even the entire cohorts of lawyers who are far better prepared, while the state just lets it flow. And I'd almost say it doesn't matter which government. It's always supposed to be late. I think it's like a tax on what we've put into this new type of company, how we couldn't handle it. OKD is the history of how we weren't prepared for a similar operation, and we don't have a chance to repeat it to make it better. But I repeat - what leads me to do with the work we've done on it is that in 1996, if you're interested in the history of OKD apartments, it was absolutely essential that the state once and for all, and I'm able to prove it, lost the ability to control the apartments and get to the fact that it will also affect the development in that direction that they would be offered to those tenants. And it also needs to be realized that laws are constantly changing throughout that time, and the conditions are changing. And that, in my opinion, is the knowledge that it is a condition for us to understand the actions of those involved in the process. And even the fact that OKD was privatized this way in 1996, the details were said here, I will not repeat it, so it was a consequence of the belief that - I repeat - if OKD is privately owned, its prosperity and future development will be taken care of. I know that even those who got to the property didn't quite hide themselves by admitting it in conversations: Yes, we may not have gotten to the whole thing in a completely honest way, but it's convenient for the state, because we're going to take care of it. We're already interested in not robbing the business. We're already interested in him slimming down. We're already interested in making it effective. So the state's gonna make a fortune. We need to turn a blind eye to how it happened, and we're all gonna make a profit. - That kind of idea, that's what it really was. That was the atmosphere. Looking back, you see it as the key to how it all happened. And that's one thing. So one thing is that in 1996 a new chapter is being created and the state suddenly has very limited possibilities. I'm not going to go through this in detail. If the state in that period after 1996, as other governments attempted to remove or treat the apartments separately, it could no longer agree with the owner. It even came down to the fact that state representatives were thrown out of those supervisory boards, so the owner was no longer willing to talk about some things and applied his position as a majority owner. I'm just gonna stop at the key moments, because it's a long story to be different from what the report says. I would like to point out that I, too, differ with this report in my opinion on what happened in 2004. But I'm saying that I actually agree that the state, that in 2004 he gave up a minority share, was always a mistake for me. And even because I was in the House at the time, and because I was moving around, I was one of those who constantly tried to excite and prevent the State from selling that minority share of shares in 2004. I wasn't alone. I could name another one here. They were e.g. Petr Vícha, the future mayor Petr Kajnar, were also some members of the Communist Party who are not here today. I remember we didn't agree to that at the time. It wasn't very good for us, we just didn't get people from the region to think about it. It bothers me, I'm sorry, and I can tell you today that we should have done more when you see it, but that's just the way it was. The interesting thing is that even though I criticized it - and I will always criticize it because I think that the state should hold that majority stake and have an impact on OKD, and it was not so that it was without instruments, it should promote it, and it would also affect the development that involved OKD flats - so I can't quite agree today with what the report says, which is constantly revolved around the sale for 4.1 billion, where however much space is devoted to it, and I myself have always had doubts about how and at what cost it sold, and even I've been quite involved in it - I'd just like to tell you that even those apartments were what I was most connected with in the past, because I also believed that there was a way to how to offer the apartments to people. That's where what you probably remember happened, that even the new owner, as it turns out, Mr. Bakala, to whom it was sold, and maybe the government didn't even know who he was selling it to, which I think is also a failure, so the new owner initially promised to offer the flats to people. I had it from the meeting I had with him, because after he became the owner, I met with him and he personally assured me that he didn't care about the apartments, that he was a Uhlobaron, that he wanted to move into the region and that he would offer the apartments to people within a year and a half to two years. And not only did he tell me, it wouldn't be that interesting, but he said it publicly. And it is true that this created the expectation that became the subject of so much discontent, resentment, and that made so much bad blood. It is also that Mr Bakala did not fulfill this promise, and this has become the subject of the statements I had against him, and I have been with him four times in court. Just because he didn't like it. [[12.40 hours]] Anyway, I know today why he changed his mind. Because during that period after 2006, there was a change, there was a deregulation of the rent, and suddenly the apartments that he said he didn't need were counted, or somebody told him were actually a golden egg. That's actually why he stopped reporting on the promise he originally made to the tenants. And again. The state hasn't actually been able to find a way to enter this thing effectively. And that's why the sale of the minority share of 2004 was a mistake for me, because I've never seen the way in this, and most importantly, it was hard for me to accept that the state would resign in this way. However, I do not think today after all the other things we have learned and what one had the opportunity to study, that it is so clear what the report claims, that the price of 4.1 billion is an inadequate price and that the State has suffered damage. Yes, the state suffered damage because it gave up a minority share because it gave up influence. That's what I think was wrong. And I think it was a political mistake. I myself was involved at the time because I shared the opinion of the Commission, as an opposition Member I drove to the European Commission, and even met with Vice-President Almunia, Vice-President of the European Commission. And I have dealt with him on this very matter that it may be illegal public support. I attended a whole series of meetings at the European Commission just in that I had doubts that this had happened correctly after all that one had learned and when those things began to flow to the surface. And I remember what I was told by the representatives of the European Commission. They told me that we would not simply enter into this, for us in the first phase are the decisive statements of the Czech courts and the position of the Czech government. That means they just... I was also there in cooperation with the tenants' association, we worked with them, and we tried to lift this thing up with the European Commission. However, I've been told, we're waiting for the statements of your courts, if something was wrong, we want to hear it confirmed differently, not from you who are telling it here and here you are telling us something and telling the story somehow. We want this confirmed by the government's position. We want this confirmed by Czech courts. And that's why I know that this is the crucial thing in the debate about possible illegal public support that would be given to the new owner. And while we're talking about the 4.1 billion crowns, look, you know there's been a trial going on recently, that was the war of experts, as they called it, the war of experts. What was that about in the trial? I also dealt with the explanatory statement of the decision. Because, as I said, this is what the European Commission cares about when it judges. And you know well that in that court, in that war of experts, it was about the fact that the experts were sued, or that they were sued, that they had caused damage to the state's property of 5.7 billion. That's where you'll find it. And that's what the trial was about, that they caused the damage of 5.7 billion. And if that were the case, it would be the unauthorized public support. If the damage to the state were really done in this way, it would mean that the person had gotten something he didn't have, and therefore it is possible to apply the principle of illegal public support. But you know what happened to the trial. And look at the reason message. In the explanatory memorandum, one can read that the state simply used the method of valuation of the shares that it could have used, received from the expert opinion what it wanted. And de facto, the court did not confirm that the damage was caused, on the basis of which we can go to the European Commission and say that there was illegal public support. Do you understand? The joke is... I know the U.S. Attorney General has just been called in, so I respect that. But this was a final decision of the court. He was in the second instance. So that's already crucial. This was a final decision by the court, which did not actually confirm that the price of 4.1 billion was therefore State damage. And that's the only fact we have in hand in this debate. And we as Members should take the decision of the court seriously. I say you don't like it, you don't like it, but this is just a fact. An appeal has been made by the Attorney General. We'll wait for the result. But it's important to us. And it's also important for the results of the investigation committee. I don't think the commission of inquiry in its resolution can quite simply chase anyone - the House, the government - and go to war with the courts or claim... Do you understand? I'm just telling the sněmovna to take this seriously. My point is that when someone does something, they get punished. In this history, which has failed many times and failed several times at state level, and it is unfortunate history, and I almost have one myself, even though I was involved in it, and despite all the trials and all the speeches that I had here in the House as an opposition MP, when I was then in the year two thousand... I've been confused here for years -- but it was after that year 1996, or at that time, I think it was the Topolánkův government, so I've been here many times in the House, and I wanted the government to... after 2004, of course, yes, after 2004, when Mirek Topolánek was the government -- so I wanted the state to try to enforce what was agreed with the new acquirer. Friends, that was here in the House where we agreed on the terms for the apartments. That is, we have dealt with the government here, Members, I will not name them. And we were discussing that when selling that minority stake, it would be supplemented by conditions that would affect the treatment of the apartments. And we were trying to make the best of it. You're saying in the report that the government was supposed to push for more. You can always say that. All I'm saying is she pulled the short end. The minute the owner said he wasn't interested in talking to them, they had no way of forcing him. They had only one option - not to sell it. That was the only option they had. Saying so well. Or threaten them - if you don't give the apartments, we won't sell it to you. But when they sold it, they didn't get the chance to dictate to whoever bought it, their housing conditions. As much as we could and what we agreed on, that's what we were arguing about here in the House. I remember it well. I know the terms weren't bohvia-cho, but it was the best we could do here. Today I can blame myself for the fact that we should have achieved more. That's the way you always have in your life. Today I also feel like apologizing to those people that we haven't fought any more. It always is. And I'm sorry. And it didn't show up enough. For those experienced business representatives, it was not an obstacle to be overcome by those other oversales, property restructurings, and so on. So it is still - politics, state, Members failing to fight someone who is stronger and more equipped than them. That's OKD history. And then it's too late for me to say enlightening. I'm just reminding you that here in this House, we tried our best to protect these apartments, those tenants were protected. It was imperfect. You see the sales today. Today you can see that in 2014, I believe was the last year when it was still possible to seek that question or to seek that it was illegal public support. Today, it seems to me that all the deadlines are gone. I simply do not agree with the report in this, and I have here the result of the court, which does not support as the statement which seems to be unambiguous, but I think it is questionable because there was no higher offer. You know, prove... And do you know what the feud is about? The argument is that the value of the apartments doesn't go into the valuation of the shares, that selling the shares is something other than selling the apartments. Back then, a minority share of the shares was sold. And that's the core of the debate that we're actually having all the time, and we probably don't understand each other. But be careful, with all this, as I say, this is not proven, I repeat, I was always convinced that the minority stake should not have been sold anyway. That means, for me, the solution is not that I don't agree. Well, I wouldn't have made a deal and I would have said no. There are different variations. You'd say, so... Well, I wouldn't rather say it, it's pointless, it's too late to chase. But for me to make the ultimate point of removing the apartments or not selling it at all. That's my position, which unfortunately didn't make it back then. But we don't agree that it's so obvious that the 4.1 billion, that it was the price, that it was possible to get more. I just don't think I can prove that. And that's why I think it's hard to decide... You see, that was all a political decision. [[12.50 hours]] There's one more thing I have to tell you. I remember that time. That's why the minority stake sold it like that. I remember the pressure from the county that was from the mining unions. At the time, there was a belief that the new coalbarons, I don't know if I should name them, that they were just the ones who were gonna save the business, the people who were connected to coal, the whole life, the directors downstairs and all that. At the time, there was a very strong belief in the region that this solution was simply to be provided by the state. He really has to give it to these new ubobarons, they'll take good care of it. That was also part of the naivety that we all thought at the time. That actually: Put it here to these new businessmen, they will make order! But that was really political pressure back then. And when you're dealing with government negotiations on that sale, you should always take into account what I remember that the government was under pressure to sell it to these people, and they, Ostravák, or people in the region, are the guarantees that they take the best care of the mines. And that's what you may mention in that report, but I don't think you're able to put the whole atmosphere of the time and the pressure under which it was all under. That you're blaming that there was no exclusivity anymore, and other things and mistakes. Yes, there were, say, a lot of them, I admit that too. But the other thing is, it was a political decision by the government based on a strong and unambiguous opposition to the whole agglomeration that said, "This is exactly what we want the government to do! So it was a political decision! Do you understand? We are entering with a whole range of legal and other arguments, but those decisions, as I told you in 1996, were ideological decisions. And I also remember in 2004 that it was a political decision. Agreement with the political representatives, with the unions in the region. There were strong motives that carried it. And now it's hard to separate all the other elements. I'm just saying that in that other debate about who was wrong and who did what, however I've been saying all along, the state was still failing in my opinion, and the businessmen were getting stronger. And even after I intersected another government here after 2004, I felt like I was banging on the door completely in vain. Because when I said "check according to the contracts that were concluded, the behavior of the new owner" when I wanted him to be fined, even if it was a ridiculous fine of 30 million, I wasn't able to convince the finance minister to at least do it. At aspoň he made it clear that he didn't agree that suddenly the owner declared that he was no longer bound by any conditions. That seemed outrageous to me, and it just wasn't possible to get through here. Finally, at that time the House even once supported me in the vote. As an opposition MP, I voted in favour of the resolution so that the government would recover the money. But I remember what a battle it was! I also felt that the government wasn't doing what it was supposed to do. That he's supposed to stand up for people, not businessmen. And my feeling about it is that all the time it was that big business had a top in all that history. If we're going to learn from this, it's that we should take seriously that politics, that state should be the one handing out cards in that country. We have a record number of multi-national companies in this country today. This is about keeping control of what's going on economically in that country. That's the lesson of it. I mean, if we have mineral wealth here, then we should worry about how it's handled. This is where the lithium case rose shortly before the election, it was discussed - and what is it today? Does that mean, do we really want to take seriously care of the way people behave in this country? I just think that in some Holland, Denmark, France, maybe somebody can't afford to act like a businessman, like a businessman in the Czech Republic. Regardless of whether it is of domestic origin. You were talking about the fact that then, in the period after 2006, what was the issue of dividends in the range of 65 billion. And yes, at a time when it was clear that there was a need to set up reserves, dividends were paid in incredible sums. And you're accusing Mr. Bakala. I blamed him, too, but you understand - he was a shareholder. You know perfectly well that the shareholder is not responsible for the company's management. And who was sitting on the board of supervisors? Even the politicians sat there! Where's their role in protecting the interests of someone other than the shareholder, the businessman? The whole system just didn't work in this. And I would also like us to prove that the company did not act as a proper caretaker. And that she broke the law. But I'm not fit enough to be able to guess if you have a chance of getting ahold of something in this thing you said. It feels like it, you understand? We can sue, it's just a question of who here... I've been looking at the reasons you've justified the individual lawsuits, and I can tell you that it's on the water for me. You can say for someone that he cheated on the state, but you know very well that for it to matter, you'd have to say where it happened, what kind of meeting it was, who he specifically cheated on, so that the police could intervene. The second you write it in general, the cops shrug over it and say, "What in God's name can we do about it?" I did such a thing that after your report came out, I sent her all the way to the D.A.'s office and demanded that it assess whether or not there was a violation of the law or suspicion of committing a crime on any of those points. I guess you can understand that I didn't feel like I was able to judge that myself. But I feel like you guys have raised a lot of names, I don't want to discuss it here, and I don't even have time for it, and I think it's kind of, you know, it's kind of cheap. We're gonna charge a series of criminals, but it just turns out that none of this is going to be in the future because it's not based on the facts. And that's not what the report is based on. Because I repeat, the business has always been equipped with a cohort of lawyers. At Mr. Bakala's trial, I wondered how many foreign lawyers accompanied him when he arrived. He had a whole bunch of professionals behind him. I had a lawyer there in the feuds. And that's the impression I get. That's just how the state did, he was acting like an amateur against someone who went to his 65 billion, or maybe more. And he just got them out of it! And I wish I had a state that had more control of this tomorrow. My point is for this committee to have a different appearance than the fact that we're gonna shoot a few names and say, these are criminals, let the police deal with them. Unfortunately, I'm very worried that we didn't put anything like that in their hands, or you didn't let her do anything more about it. You know that some of these things have already been investigated. And yet I think that's a lesson from the case. But it's a different type. That the state should behave so as not to allow mineral wealth to be expositioned, not to allow anyone to take billions of dividends away and then leave it to us as an shell. And to have more in our hands than just anger over how those people ended up there. About the problem of the expectations. Again, we did something in the House. We have adopted a new Civil Code, and according to the new Civil Code, it can actually be affected. What was then, the false promise, or the promise that was made by Mr. Bakala and which was not fulfilled, in my opinion, today the Civil Code is affecting. If history had happened today, we'd already have a section on it. But you know very well that what we have today in the Civil Code cannot be used for what happened back then. So even though today it may seem to us that this way to mislead people, to make them invest in apartments, and then not to sell them, that really pisses those people off. They were frustrated about it, of course. That's not how a solid person treats people who promise to take care of them. We have laws today, but they can't really help us anymore. I just think that - the point is that the struggle to prove that it was an illegal public support seems to me today, and I don't have time to explain that there is a promise that we can't bring to an end because we don't have the government's positions all this time. The government never stood up to it like that, none. And we don't have any courts that look like they're gonna confirm that. And so, let's have a realistic conversation about what we can do. And I think that's my conclusion today that all we can do today is to find a form of compensation for those, if we can define a group of those who were given false expectations, invest money and lose them like that. Or the expectations weren't fulfilled. So I think fair and square, if we don't make some kind of compensation, they'll never get it. And the satisfaction of saying "we have culprits" today - I'm afraid many of these things are being cut short, that all the institutes that have already been filled there have just been, we've already lost too much time. And they're, like, fake Teschen apples. But most importantly, I think it would be good, and I think that this case is useful and worth dealing with - to learn from what we've been through here in 30 years, and to try to build a state that will move towards business so that it does not go against the interests of citizens in this country. And I think it's a much bigger subject than just the theme of OKD and one enterprise. Because this is about the overall atmosphere in the country, the amount of taxation for rich people, which is one of the lowest in our country. I have a feeling that something from the '90s illusions still lingers with us. And that's why I think it's a much bigger debate. But what happened in OKD is a good lesson, very important, very useful. I wish we could actually get something out of this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-002-285.u7	Let me now point out that we are not yet in the general debate, which is why Mrs Pavla Golasowská should speak now, but this will probably not happen again, because I have a stack of excuses here, which I have to read now, that we are going to interrupt. However, since I also have priority rights, I would just like to point out that now, when the question is resumed, the rapporteur, Mrs Pavla Golasowská, will speak, and I will then open the debate, where Radek Rozvoral is with priority right first, the President of Černohorský has also declared himself, but only the rapporteur has priority rights, so you will normally have to speak in the general debate, and now there is not even a general debate, but there are two factual points after Radek Rozvoral, that is, Mr Venhoda, Juříček, and then we are going back to the general debate. So that's about it, and now I'm gonna read the apologies. I'll read the apologies, and then I'll break it off. Mr Jáč apologizes from 15.00 a.m. to the end of the hearing due to a doctor's visit. Mr Marek Novák also apologizes from 14:30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Mr Václav Klaus also apologizes from 14.00 to the end of the day for reasons of work. She also apologizes to Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková from 14.30 pm for work reasons. Mr David Pražák also apologizes between 15 and 21 o'clock for reasons of work. Furthermore, Mr Lubomír Lubomír Španěl apologizes between 14.30 and midnight for family reasons. Mr Martin Baxa also apologizes for the reasons of work today from 14.30 pm to the end of the day. Mrs Věra Procházková also apologizes between 14.30 and 19.00 for work reasons, and that is all so far. I am now interrupting the session of the Chamber of Deputies. Enjoy your meal, and I'll see you at 2:30 p.m. at the p.m. at the p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-01-30-ps2017-040-07-002-285.u8	Dear Prime Minister, honourable Members, I welcome you to the afternoon part of today's meeting. Before we go any further, I'll introduce you to your apologies. We are apologized to Mr Ventruba from 18 a.m. to the end of the sitting day for health reasons, Mrs Malá from 14.30 a.m. to the end of the sitting day due to the meeting in the electoral region, Mrs Válková between 14.30 a.m. and 19 a.m. for reasons of work, Mr Onderka from 14.30 a.m. to the end of the sitting day for reasons of employment, Mrs Pekarová Adamová from 15 to 15 a.m. for reasons of employment, Member Venhoda between 9 and 11.05 a.m. for family reasons, Member Strýček from 16 to 18 a.m. for reasons of employment, Member Lesák between 15 and 21 a.m. for reasons of employment, Minister for Foreign Affairs Petříček from 14.30 a.m. to the end of the sitting day for reasons of employment and Member Hyťhová from 13 a.m. to the end of the sitting day for health reasons. And now I'm opening a point.
