ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-002-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 6/2002 Coll., on courts, judges,judges and state administration of courts and on the amendment of certain other laws (laws on courts and judges), as amended, and other related laws /house print 630/ - second reading On behalf of the Government, the motion submitted will again be made by the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová, whom I am asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-002-002.u2	Another government proposal is the law on courts and judges, which is at second reading. And this government proposal, I recall only, was also submitted in the framework of the Government's legislative work plan for 2019 following the Government's programming declaration in which the government undertook to enforce the statutory conditions of selection of judges and responds to the recommendations of the Group of States of GRECO. Its main objective is to establish a uniform transparent system of selection of judges, judicial officials, as well as a more detailed regulation of the secondary activities of the Judges and a revision of the Institute of Criminal Procedure. As part of the unification of the preparation of future judges, an institute of judicial candidateship shall be established, which shall come after the expert judicial examination and represent the preparation for the performance of the duties of judge. Professional training of a judicial candidate may also be carried out by persons from other legal practice with a professional examination. The selection of judicial posts will take place in the selection procedure for specific vacant posts within the territory of the Regional Court and experts outside the judiciary may also apply to the selection procedure. The selection of the Presidents of the District, Regional and Supreme Courts will be carried out by means of tendering procedures, where the parameters of the selection procedures will be newly established by law compared to today's situation in which the selection procedures are ongoing, but the rules are regulated by the Minister's instructions. The amendment further provides for a ban on the re-appointed chairmen in the same court, which is now the caselaw of the Constitutional Court, and compulsory managerial training for judicial officials. The amendment introduces a system of notification of the secondary activities of judges and provides for an explicit ban on the membership of judges in political parties and political movements, as well as on the model of judges of the Constitutional Court. In addition to the recommendation by GRECO, it is proposed to limit the seats in criminal proceedings. Decision-making in the Chamber with the Secretaries should be limited to a group of the most serious crimes, among which, of course, violent crimes remain. The amendment was also widely discussed with representatives of the judiciary on a series of round tables already in the autumn of 2018, at the beginning of 2019, with the Judging Union and with other experts. The proposal was discussed at first reading on 11 March, subsequently by the constitutionally-legal committee, which, by its resolution, recommended that this proposal be approved. Of course, there are a number of amendments to which I will then make a detailed statement. Some we agree with, some we disagree with. So I guess that's it for the introduction, and I'm looking forward to another discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-002-002.u3	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you to... The proposal was first ordered by the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 630/1 and 630/2. I will ask Mr Farský, who is the rapporteur for this press, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee and of any possible amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-002-002.u4	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the constitutionally-legal committee dealt with the House's press twice at its meeting: on 14 September, when he suspended the hearing, after 11 days on 25 September, he ended his negotiations with the adoption of amendments and with the resolution attached to them, which I will introduce to you. First of all, the constitutionally-legal committee recommended that the Chamber of Deputies approve the bill after the debate and, in the course of its negotiations, adopted a number of amendments already drawn up in the resolution or in the Houses of the Press no. 630/2. In short, if I were to introduce them, the agreement from the Constitutional and Legal Committee is that lawyers will have simplified access to the courts, that they will not have to, unless a judge decides otherwise, they will not have to go through the frames and will be able to pass the Czech Bar Association's ID. The definition of compulsory law and legal science is regulated only by law, when there was uncertainty in the interpretation, which of the higher education fields would then be acceptable. A great debate was held on how it would go beyond their mandates in the event of the end of the mandate of judicial officials, how their duties would overlap, their mandates. The conclusion agreed by the Constitutional and Legal Committee was that the Vice-President would "reserve" his chairman for three months in order to maintain continuity so that it could somehow be handed over and not slowed down or somehow complicate the functioning of the courts. We have reached out that judges can already be part of the bodies of the chambers of Parliament, not only advisory ones, because some are purely advisory, and that restriction on purely advisory was too strict from our point of view. The debate also took place on the selection committee and on the composition of the selection committee for judges. Following broader considerations, we stayed with the fact that the dominance of the judges over the Ministry would remain, that the self-government is being maintained here. The practice has shown that the legal list of registers from which the court can use the data is expanding. It searches for some data itself so that participants do not have to document some publicly available information when it is already available to the State. And for the waiters of justice, it was adapted to avoid the retroactivity of their activities. It also includes the abolition of the seats in the civil court proceedings, which also went through after the debate. One thing we have not discussed from my point of view and the need for legislation on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, namely to shift efficiency. Here I will turn to the general debate on my own, suggesting that efficiency be shifted from 1 January 2021 to 1 July 2021. I will sign up for the amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-002-002.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate to which Mr Veselý is first signed up, Mrs Valachová will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-002-002.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will try to reach the Minister, although I know that it has a very difficult situation in this regard, by means of you, to turn an appeal which, although not directly related to this law, is nevertheless based on it, and that is the question of the remuneration of the seats. Madam Secretary, let us say, has rescued or rescued the sitting party as an element of our legal system, which I consider to be okay, but the relevant remuneration decree has not been amended since 1996 and, in particular, the lump sum for one day of sitting in a court which in § 5 amounts to CZK 150 is not really a dignified position anymore. So, regardless of the fact that we probably shouldn't spend more money on the state budget at the moment, so, of course, remuneration is one of the things that always changes over time. I understand that it may not be possible to expect that, given the time, the amount should be roughly double, but I would like to ask whether the Ministry would consider increasing by at least one third, namely 50 crowns. Based on how I communicate with each of my fellow members, at least that's what they'd appreciate, and I think we might be able to lure a little more of our seats, perhaps with a higher education, with an education that is closer to this position. So while the secretary here doesn't listen to me, I hope it's recorded and they're going to deal with it at the Justice Department. [[The Minister is speaking to the rapporteur in the news desk]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-002-002.u7	Thank you. Mrs Valachová, Mr Michálek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-002-002.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I will propose a regulation of local jurisdiction which should be specialized in the District Court for Prague 1 on matters relating to a European order to hold accounts. The reason for the introduction of specialisation is the complexity of the legislation on the European order for the attachment of accounts, as well as the short time limits set by the Union Regulation on the European order for the attachment of accounts for each operation. I will therefore beg you, fellow Members, in the following steps and readings of the Law on Courts and Judges for Support, and I believe that I will obtain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-002-002.u9	Thank you. Mr. Michálek. He's not present right now, nothing's going on, we'll let Mr Benda go. Well, Mr. Benda isn't here either, but Mr. Michálek is already here. So, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-002-002.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly mention my amendment regarding the addition of a new obligation of the courts and judges to publish their decisions. This is part of the commitment made by the Czech Republic under Open Government Partnership. Our adjustment is more detailed than what Mrs Taťána Malá is proposing. It states precisely in which cases decisions are published, in which cases they are not published, that they are not published e.g. in the case of payment orders and other matters which, say, are routine in nature, where the contribution of the disclosure would not be so great. Of course, there is a reference to excluding data which is not published. It follows the project, which was recently launched within the Ministry of Justice, where it is now possible to get acquainted with the collection of judgments issued by the courts. There are only a few courts so far, but I think it's a successful start. I very much support the project and thank the Ministry for it. And for the clear legal support of the publication, I think it would be appropriate for us to add it to the law on courts and judges so that no one can make excuses for the mere instruction of the Minister of Justice. It seems to me that imposing obligations of this type is so serious that it should at least be regulated in the basic features at the level of the law and that it would be inappropriate to leave this up to the delegation in the order of the Ministry of Justice. I also met the demands expressed by the representatives of the Ministry of Justice on our amendment, and I extended the period for which they should be - originally proposed to publish the court's decision within 15 days, which I extended within 30 days to make it more acceptable, and I proposed the sharp run-up to 2023. This means that it will be sufficient time for the system to be tested, and if the testing is successful, it will go into sharp operation, when the publication of a large part of the judicial decisions will be mandatory, as recommended by various anti-corruption organizations including GRECO and as the Czech Republic has committed itself to in the framework of Open Government Partnership. I will sign up for the amendment in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-002-002.u11	Thank you. Mr Benda for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-002-002.u12	Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, it looks quite peaceful again, nothing much is happening, we will adopt some new amendment and rules for the appointment of judges and judicial officials, which are already working in some parts. But on that point, I will have two more general remarks, for which I will say that, in conclusion, we will not vote in favour of this bill. The first are the famous selection committees and selection procedures, which are incorporated into the law. I am pleased that the Constitutional and Legal Committee has managed at least to strike that balance between individual legal professions and that they are no longer favoured by prosecutors as civil servants against all other legal professions. I think that's right and useful. At the same time, the whole debate on selection committees seems completely absurd to me. She was focused on all the attention around this law, and it is a little forgotten that there are two persons who are actually responsible for the appointment of judges, and this is the Minister of Justice, who bears it upon the government, and the President of the Republic, who will carry out this appointment. That's what the Constitution says, and that's right. The fact that, like some here in the last few years, they've been making up the idea that the president of the Republic is, in fact, just a name machine, that the Minister of Justice is supposed to bring him something that appears somewhere on the air, that's just a mistake. The Constitution makes matters quite clear - it appoints the President of the Republic on the basis of a government proposal. These are the two persons responsible for the appointment of every judge. How they fulfil this constitutional responsibility is largely up to them. We, on their proposal, are trying to tie them up in some way in the law. I am the great enemy of selection committees in all levels where they are used. It's just pure alibiism where there's no one who's responsible. It's kind of funny, more voices decide, objective criteria are set. But what have we experienced in our last year of appointment? The famous tender for the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition - and I think they have chosen well, I have absolutely nothing against Petr Mlsna and I think he will be a good director of the Office for the Protection of Competition. But the name was given three months before the tender was issued. And to everyone's surprise, he won the tender. Then tell me why such selection procedures are taking place and what they are really good for. [[10.00 hours]] And I think that's the problem with this law, which has broken into an incredible argument about what the selection committee will look like and where the fifth member will be. Finally, the compromise accepted is so bizarre that it can happen that in the case of, say, not a friendly relationship between the President of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court, all the appointments of judges will cease because we will not have any selection committee. But I consider the selection committee itself to be an artificial problem, which merely takes away the real constitutional responsibility that exists and which is placed on the Minister of Justice and on the President of the Republic. The second problem I see in the law is the combination of the position of chairman and Vice-Presidents. Two models are actually possible. Either they're independent officials, or it's something we learned on the constitutional law committee to call management. The President comes and changes all the Vice-Presidents. I do not quite believe that management proceedings are part of the judicial system, even at the level of the administration of judges. I think that the lower officials and the Constitution are counting on this to a large extent, because, for example, in the highest courts where the appointments take place through the President of the Republic, there is no management procedure, it is not on the proposal of the President of the Court, but the Constitution says the President of the Republic will appoint the President and Vice-President of the Constitutional Court, appoint the President and Vice-President of the Supreme Court, the President and Vice-President of the Supreme Administrative Court. Suddenly, we have moved in the system below, where it is no longer regulated by the Constitution, and it is not modified as the constitutionalist wished, and here we begin to pretend that it will not be independent of each other, where the person who names it can somehow balance and look for some best solution for the court, but that it will be management, and we bring it to perfection. Yes, right, we canceled Indian funerals, which means that at the time of the President's death all the Vice-Presidents fall or his departure wherever all the Vice-Presidents fall and the court is completely out of control, which was in the original government proposal and which I really considered to be a factual and structural error, but we leaned on the constitutionally-legal committee, and I do not think that it is correct, Mrs Válková and I have tabled a compromise proposal that was not adopted, we have leaned towards a management solution. Here comes the new President of the Court, exchanging all the Vice-Presidents. I believe that this solution is not entirely in line with how the Czech Constitution is designed and how the considerations on the judicial system were conceived at a time when the Czech Constitution was being prepared and approved, and it is one of the reasons for which I will not vote in the final reading to support this proposal, because I think that the idea of choosing the President is already on it, is not right and correct for the judicial system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-002-002.u13	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue. This was the last speaker in the general debate. I'm asking if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I ask if there is interest in the final words after the general debate - Madam Secretary? The rapporteur? They're not interested. No proposal has been made, which we should vote after the general debate, and I am opening the debate in detail. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must be justified. And we have the first logged in, and this is Mrs Taťána Malá in a detailed debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-002-002.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Members, allow me to sign up to the amendment which is being made in the system under number 7065 and concerns the incorporation of the final decisions of the District, Regional and Supreme Courts into a database which will be managed and operated by the Ministry of Justice and which will be publicly available in a way that ensures remote access. The specific categories of such decisions shall be determined by the Ministry and shall be governed by an implementing regulation. As regards this disclosure of judgments, it will be without prejudice to the provision of information under Law 106 on free access to information at the same time. As far as effectiveness is concerned, with regard to the current project of the Ministry of Justice in connection with the publication of judicial decisions, there will be a difference in effectiveness against the rest of this House's press, as of 1. 7. 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-002-002.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Taťána Malá. Now, Mrs Kateřina Valachová, in a detailed debate, will be prepared by Jakub Michálek. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-002-002.u16	I am signing up for Amendment 6654. As I said in the general debate, this is a change of jurisdiction, which means that, in future, in the case of a European billing order, the District Court for Prague 1 is competent locally.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-002-002.u17	Thank you. And now, Mr Jakub Michálek, so far the last enrollment. And I see the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-002-002.u18	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I subscribe to the amendment by House document 7082.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-002-002.u19	Thank you. Now, in a detailed debate, the rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-002-002.u20	Let me read here the amendment, as I announced in the general debate, as amended by: In Part 11 of the article. 13, '1 January' is replaced by '1 July'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-002-002.u21	Thank you. Now, Mr Dominik Feri, in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-002-002.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I am applying to my amendments, which are listed as House documents number 6710, 6711 and 4056. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-12-10-ps2017-075-01-002-002.u23	Thank you. Anyone else in detail for the debate? I don't see anybody, and I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking for final words. Madam Secretary? He's not interested. The rapporteur? He's not interested. There is no proposal that we would vote in the second reading after a detailed debate, and I am ending the second reading of this proposal. I'm ending item number 2 of this meeting. Thank you, Minister, thank you, rapporteur. Madam Secretary is staying at the rapporteur's desk. The third point of our negotiations is:
