ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 60th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. To record your participation, I just checked you out, and please log in with ID cards, or tell me who's asking for a replacement card. With the replacement card number 17, Mr. Kolářík votes. I called this meeting following Section 99 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, according to which I declared a state of legislative emergency. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Friday 25 September. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of Jaroslav Dvořák and a Member of Leo Luzar. Does anyone else have a proposal for a verifier? I've summoned colleagues from the lobby. Otherwise, for the recapitulation, under the agreement of all the MPs, we sit in a reduced format of fifty percent. Now, we can vote on the verifiers. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number one, 81 Members signed in, for 81, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Members of Jaroslav Dvořák and Members of Leo Luzar as verifiers of the 60th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I note that Members who are not present or excused in writing are deemed to be excused under the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs. Members of the government apologize for those who are not Members: Marie Benešová - working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons, Miroslav Toman - working reasons. Madame Members, on Friday 25 September, I am my decision No. 67, on the basis of the Government's proposal, has declared a state of legislative emergency. Furthermore, I am under § 99 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies decided to discuss the Government Bill amending Act No. 435/2004 Coll., on Employment, as amended, and other related laws, House press 1025, in a short hearing and I ordered it to be discussed by the Committee on Social Policy and set an unbreakable deadline for the submission of a resolution by 30 September 2020 within 8 hours. Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Article 99 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 4 of the Rules of Procedure are in a state of legislative emergency, before discussing the proposal for a programme, to assess whether the legislative emergency lasts. I'm opening the debate. The Prime Minister came forward first. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u2	So good day to all, Mr President, colleagues. I would briefly comment on the proposal that Minister Prymula wants to put to the government today, on the proposal for an emergency situation. I hope the opposition appreciates that the government was supposed to discuss this at 7 o'clock this morning, but based on the demands of the House, and it has its logic, I've translated the government to 13 o'clock, so actually the House will hear it, the proposal before the government. And, of course, we'll be happy to hear your opinions. I would like to stress that the emergency situation itself does not introduce any measures. Yes, it is a legislative measure, it is a legislative framework, and I would like to stress that the emergency situation that we introduced in March does not mean the same restrictive regulation at all as during spring. That means no one wants to close business, no restaurants, no business. But it is simply necessary and this will explain to you why Minister Prymula proposes this and why he proposes it. As far as I understand it, he is proposing this so that he can take further existing measures. Of course, we do not want to take these measures both in March, with a huge impact on our economy, our business, our citizens' lives, but, of course, at these moments, we need everyone's cooperation. This means regions, municipalities, governments, and hopefully the opposition will help us convince people to follow these measures, because it is in the interests of all of us. I believe that we will be able to manage this crisis together, that we will be able to flatten the curve of an epidemic without taking the measures as we did during spring. As far as cursarbeit is concerned, Minister Schillerová will also do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. So, before I open the debate on the state of legislative emergency - to stay out of the emergency - I have a written application from Minister Prymula, then Minister Hamáček, and I have Mr Stanjura from the position. Then President Farský, then President Rakušan. Everything before the debate is open. And I've got Mr. Jurečka to sign up for the debate... so if President Jurečka wants to be logged in at the moment, then I'm giving him... [[The President is spoken to by the Messenger. Stanjura off the mic.]] Okay. But I respect Section 67... okay, so Chairman Stanjura. I will open the debate, and I will give all these other contributions in the course of the debate on the legislative emergency. In that case, please, Minister Prymula.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly explain why an emergency situation needs to be put in place in the Czech Republic at the moment. We are in a situation where the epidemiological situation does not really develop favorably. If we look at the surrounding countries, there are four countries with a comparable increase, but the Czech Republic had by far the largest trajectory at the beginning of September.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u5	I'm sorry, I'm gonna interrupt you for a second. Many of us have been waiting for this performance, but I ask for peace in the hall. Calm down, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u6	It can be said that at this moment, a worldwide pandemic of covid has already hit 34 million people, one million people have died. These numbers are undoubtedly not valid because each country is showing this in a different way. It doesn't matter. What is important is that in a number of countries where measures have not been applied, the whole system has been overloaded and not necessary deaths and overloads of the health system have occurred. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] At this point, when we look at the data in our terms, we have 976 hospitalized, which is a fairly steep increase from the situation that was here three weeks ago, and basically we got to ten times that. As far as the ratio of hospitalized to positive numbers is concerned, it is only about 2.8 and does not differ very much, and when we talk about total numbers, it has to be said that this is not relevant. We are only able to capture a certain part at the moment, but the essential part is - and there are very clear and so to speak, unforgivable - data on the number of hospitalized, the number of severe cases, cases that require oxygen therapy, or intensive care and ventilation. It is clear that at this point and here there is a clear increase that is achieved - we are at 173 people in hospitalized at the ICU when it comes to artificial pulmonary ventilation, so that is 111 people and one person is at ECMO. When we say, in some way, why we should actually be able to introduce measures that affect and change these numbers in some way, it is clear that we are in a situation where there is a community transfer, where there is absolutely no way to identify all the resources in the population, and a number of people are already captured as positive, without knowing from whom they have been infected. If we don't do anything, we'll get the numbers of tens of thousands of positives on that curve and, unfortunately, a number of hundreds of deaths. The relative daily seizures at this point are moving at a level where we had positive samples of about 3 percent, 7 percent, now we're getting to 13-14 percent. This represents an increasing charge in the population, and of course we conclude that the disease is much more in the population than it was before, and there are also significantly more in the system than it shows. These numbers are interlaced, even if this is not a direct aspect, into the number of difficult cases. And it's obvious that the cases that are now are milder than they were in the spring, it's about five times, but if we have a 20-fold increase here, it's clear that by simply multiplying, we're going to get to the numbers that are really beginning to threaten the capacity of our system. And if we don't do anything, we'll get into a situation where our beds are occupied by covid patients. I would just like to say that capacity is sufficient at the moment. We have about thousands of intensive care beds with ventilation, we have about 5,500 beds that we are able to use for patients with covid. But there's one thing. At this point, we don't have beds that are vacant. The vacant beds are filling up quite intensively and in a number of cases they have been filled up, that is, for the next procedure we need to do restructuring in individual regions and use beds that are normally used for other, other diagnoses. This means that the covid limits us to the fact that we will not be able to provide all the care we would like, and we will be put off care. That's why it's our only chance to stop this increase. And we can take measures that can reduce it. The measures are on a wide range, but the vast majority of them are not feasible under Law 258, which means the Public Health Act, because it does not allow us to implement the measures on the surface. Of the measures we are planning, there are basically school restrictions beyond emergency conditions. That's what we really want to do from Monday. This concerns absolutely dominant secondary schools, where we want to cancel attendance classes for 14 days and make distance lessons. This procedure basically allows for the reduction of the charge in the population. I want to say here that these measures, all of which we are preparing, are short-term measures. When we analyzed with a number of experts from abroad, our experts who are at foreign renowned workplaces, we agreed that from the various strategies available, the strategy, which means rapid intervention for a short period of time and then release, is the most efficient and surprisingly also the cheapest strategy. That is why we are trying to apply this strategy. In addition to schools, we want to make arrangements for others. I don't want to go into details here. Of course, in case of questions, I will describe more detailed measures in schools. In addition to secondary schools, we want to limit music education and gym training, because there is the greatest risk of contact, and we want to limit the different clubs that are in schools. Measures already needed under emergency conditions are measures that restrict the gathering of persons. There really can't be done out of emergency. We have already been attacked during last week's measures, where we have shortened opening hours in restaurants, bars and similar premises from 24 to 22 hours, and we have already been told here that we do not have a mandate under our legislation. To sum up, therefore, the main reasons that lead to the need for an emergency are the announcement of measures that will really help stop the rocket surge that has been here, which threatens the capacity of our medical facilities. I would like to thank you very much to all those who are fighting for our patients to receive adequate care, which means, in particular, to all health professionals. They're on the verge of exhaustion. They've been in this system for six months, even though the storm was much smaller in the summer season, but at this point, there's a huge number of paramedics in various quarantines, and that's why we have to close down the department somewhere. This means that this reduces the capacity of care. In order to use other reinforcements, we need an emergency. We want to involve medical schools, especially from the last years, and in order to do so and to announce an emergency, an emergency is needed. Otherwise, when it comes to limiting collection, we want to target the measures really on leisure activities, not activities that interfere with our economic life in any way. It is clear that the effects on cultural and sporting events are, will undoubtedly be economically affected, but again it is minimal for a period of 14 days, that is, and then we want to relax. The measures in a nutshell are that for sports events we want all professional competitions and regular performance competitions to continue to run, but without spectators. The general limitation will be 10 persons inside, 20 persons outside. In culture there will be exceptions to classical theatres, dramas, but musicals or operas will not be possible, because through singing there is a very intense spread of this virus. That's why we're limiting this for that short period of time. As far as seniors are concerned, this is the group that is most at risk at all. Repeatedly, there are data that, combined with comorbidities, these people are actually dying significantly more frequently than our normal population, and that is why we need to do everything we can to prevent this category from being infected. We have not yet limited time in various supermarkets, shops, and we do not define it for seniors, but only because we want to appeal to really limit visits to different establishments during these 14 days in order to reduce the risk of infection. If we manage to do this in the last 14 days, there will be a significant relaxation, because if we continue with the trend that is here, our reproductive number is now at 1.2, which is a success against what it looked like at the beginning of September, in those first nine days, however, we are in a situation where this number is still growing. [[9.20 hours]] So we have to realize that, according to different scenarios, we would grow and we would have four, five thousand positives a day here, of which a correspondingly higher number of people are recruited. And it's just as expensive to keep a reproductive number on one if we have 300 cases a day here, and if we have a level of, like, 4.5 thousand. On the other hand, with that higher number, the health system will start to collapse. That's why we want to do all of this. There is no way we want to restrict the lives of the people of this country so that we do so not necessarily. It is clear here that we have to do this, because our parameters are unfortunately one of the worst in the world now, and the curve does not create too much optimism without measures. I would very much like to intercede for this measure to be accepted. There is some kind of framework, which means that there are no hard measures that have been here in the spring, which we certainly do not want to do, but we need measures that are capable of stabilizing the entire state, and after 14 days we want to relax them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u7	Thank you, Minister, and now with priority right the Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček. With the replacement card number 18, Mrs Matušovská votes. And Minister Plaga has been excused, but apparently he's disturbing his apology because I see him, and he's nodding his head. So please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u8	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, dear government, colleagues, allow me also a few words on the current situation and on the issue of emergency. I would like to ask everyone to go back to the debate we had in the spring months, perhaps mentally, and remember the arguments that were being made here. I believe that all of us, at least here in the Chamber of Deputies, are perfectly clear on what an emergency is. That it is clear to us that the emergency situation and its announcement do not in itself mean any new measures, the emergency situation does not bring any lockdowns, prohibitions, restrictions on movement, curfews, travel bans, as it sounds on social networks. Emergency status is status change. If the state manages the situation by standard means, it doesn't need an emergency situation, in the event of an epidemic like this, the Ministry of Health is issuing its emergency measures and is trying to do everything in its power to cope with the situation. If the situation gets worse, the Ministry of Health will run into limits, and we have discussed these limits quite in detail here in the spring. There were a lot of performances, and it wasn't even limited to a performance in the Chamber of Deputies. We have here the town court judge in Prague, who has made it clear what the government can do under the Public Health Act and what it cannot and must do under emergency conditions. I will put aside the fact that the law on security and crisis law has not yet been adapted in any way, although the materials are finished, but the work version that I have sent to comment on has raised a great debate. The fact that he's ahead of the election, and I hope that after the election, we'll get back to it in a matter of fact, but we just have the same law on security and the same crisis law. Therefore, if the Ministry of Health, on the basis of expert advice, finds it necessary to take measures that can no longer be taken under the Public Health Act, the Ministry has two options: either it does nothing or asks for an emergency. I believe we all agree that doing nothing in this situation is an incredible gamble. For God's sake, it seems that the measures that have been put in place mean wearing drapes, possibly. certain restrictions in the restaurant areas, worked, and we deviated from the worst-case scenario, which was presented to us by experts 14 days ago as completely realistic. Here it was seriously considered that at the end of the month this country could have 80,000 patients. The measure, thank God it looks like it worked, but the fact that we have some 33-34,000 sick today and it's growing by some 2-3,000 a day, so it's not a hit parade. That's just a better situation than the worst. And the experts are clearly saying that there's just something else that needs to be done to make that reproductive number that's around 1,24 today fall under 1. And by the way, speaking of numbers, that number of 1,24 or 1.2 in principle means we're going to get into these huge problems by the end of October, if this continues. So we bought some time with the measures that are now in force. IHIS experts said that we are actually facing a huge problem in terms of capacity in mid-October. So now for this number, it's the end of the month, that's 14 more days. So it's obvious that we bought some time, but we have to do a little bit more, and that's a little something that the Minister of Health has introduced here. So I'm going to ask everyone to approach this with the seriousness of the situation. I understand that it's tempting to figure out all the things that this government wants to do and everything that it wants to usurp. And I'll repeat my words from spring: we didn't enjoy the emergency in the spring and we certainly won't enjoy it even in the fall. It's just a thing that drove us to the circumstances that drove us to the development of the epidemic. And by the way, if there's any criticism and disapproval of the state of emergency that the government isn't supposed to do that, I'd like to ask, because there's gonna be a whole series of performers here, what's the alternative? I've made it clear here that we're either gonna take further action or we're not gonna do anything. And I don't want to put words in anybody's mouth, but does that mean that those who are against an emergency tell us not to do anything? Or do they have some genius idea that we haven't come up with, and the City Court in Prague hasn't come up with, or constitutional lawyers? If you have any genius ideas on how to take the measures that the Department of Health wants out of emergency, here with him and we can discuss it. I'm afraid there's no such genius idea here. And when we're talking about an emergency situation, we're introducing it, or we want to introduce it, in a situation where we have some 2.5-3,000 infected a day, and we're being criticized for it. The Slovak Government introduces him at 500. Okay, Slovakia is halfway around, so it's like we have a thousand. Does that mean they went crazy in Bratislava, too? I don't think so. It seems that they are doing exactly the measures they consider appropriate and are doing similar measures as the Czech Republic is planning. So I would like to ask that, however much we have on Friday, we approach this with a cool head, and I would ask everyone to either show the alternative, which means how we can do it without emergency, or to support the government's move. And the last thing I have to say. I've mentioned several times that there's an election on Friday. I would like to assure everyone for the Home Office, who is in charge of organising the elections, that we have taken all possible measures to ensure that these elections are safe. I want to assure the citizens of the Czech Republic that there are such security measures that there is no risk, and with some exaggeration, it can be said that if voters go to the urns, it is safer for them than when they go shopping. So I beg all those who are determined not to be afraid to vote. We've done everything we can to make this vote safe. After all, those who have quarantine can already vote from the so-called. Drive-ins. If someone is at home and is not quarantined, however, they do not feel like going to the ballot box, so they have the opportunity to use the standard - not the special but standard electoral commission that comes to him with a portable urn, like always in those elections. All you have to do is call the Competent Authority. So there are many options, the elections are safe, and I ask all citizens of the Czech Republic to participate in these elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u9	Thank you. Now, after a brief agreement, I will open the debate, and the first to enter into the debate with priority rights, President Stanjura, then President Jurečka, etc. The debate now refers to Section 99 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 4 whether there is a legislative emergency and whether we will approve it. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor. I know, of course, that anyone who has priority rights can perform at any time, but we will respond to the emergency situation when we place the point at which there was a consensus on the grémium. So now I won't respond to the performance of my previous speakers, with one exception or two exceptions. I would certainly support the last words of the Minister of the Interior, who called on the citizens to participate in the elections. I think there's a consensus that that's what everyone who has their representatives in this election wants, I'm sure they do. And when I said we'd save it for next time, the minister said we should try to get our thoughts back. I agree with that. What we're missing from those performances that were said, I'm going to say it at that point. And so let us try to return, for example, Minister of the Interior, to the beginning of June, when the opposition as a whole called on the government here, it had full constructive proposals on how to prepare for the second wave. We've been ridiculed, shouted, just like you have today. Don't be mad at me, Minister, but say to the microphone, "if you have any genius ideas, I'm with him!"that's not a serious debate. You're already knocking that opponent or opponent down in some way. And the Prime Minister laughed at us and said there would be no second wave. Find it. We scare citizens instead of having a rational debate and preparing ourselves. But I'm saying let's leave it to point one. Now, about why I signed up for the debate, and this is a state of legislative emergency. And I will speak to the government, I will not speak to the President who has complied with the Government proposal, and I think that is the standard procedure of any President or President of the Chamber of Deputies. In fact, we have a single bill for the legislative emergency, the so-called Kursarbeit, or amendment to the Employment Act. But we will use the nice German name cursarbeit, which was applied, as colleagues have told me, that even in Britain they use the name cursarbeit, which is quite surprising. Let's face facts. The government has been intensely talking about this for five or six months. Now I'm not gonna say it's been in public space for ten years, that's probably it, or 12. [[Secretary Schiller: Four months.]] Four months, says the secretary. Okay, four months. The government as a whole has dealt with this many times. I've read many times on Twitter, Madam Secretary of Labor and Social Affairs, that the deal is done. Three exclamation points, great. And then we get 115 hours to prepare qualified, legislatively impeccable amendments. Doesn't seem fair to me. Four months - and I know the law isn't easy - doesn't seem like a long time. But what I find unfair is 115 hours for those who do not reject the law - and we do not reject it - the idea of cursarbeit - but who do not like the existing wording of the specific bill. Although we have about 12 amendments prepared, I would certainly welcome it if we could discuss this as standard so that we can still examine the legislative purity or communicate with each other within the Chamber of Deputies, either with government or opposition clubs. Because, as I have noticed, there are some of the same amendments or similar ones in the system. And I think that if we did that today, we would get to a bunch of dozen amendments. For their specific study, we would have several tens of minutes, tops, in order of hours. That is why civil democrats will not support a state of legislative emergency. On the contrary, we are prepared not to block any shortening of the deadline even under 30 days - 20 is just right for us. Now I don't have exactly the calendar for the House to act. But we have been able to fulfill the 20 days of working on the specific amendments and the debate with colleagues from other political clubs. I think, when I look at the fact that today is September 30th, that is, I think we are able to have an approved text by mid-November at the latest, with majority agreement in the Chamber of Deputies, so nothing prevents cursarbeit from paying as of January 1st. Now, of course, we can ask what will happen between 1 November and 31 December. I think that's a legitimate question, so let's see what the situation is. By the end of August, three Antivirus programmes - A, B, C.A. and B were in the regime, in simple terms, subsidies, that is to say, a government decision. A regime C was approved by us, the Chamber of Deputies, and the Senate as law. The government has extended programmes A and B so far from 1 September to the end of October and has completely cut off the Antivirus C, which we are in vain trying to push for, at least, a vote on it if it is no longer for us to debate it. [[Nesroz.]] I'll do it again today. When we start talking about the program, I'm gonna suggest that we discuss both the laws that we think are okay, that is, both the extension of Antivirus C and the remission of minimum social security advances for the self-employed. If we look at the first two programs that the government has in competence - and I can also speak for our COVID commission, because we agreed on this evaluation - we agreed that the Antivirus A program is successful, it fulfills its function. When we look at the filling, it goes logically. This means, from the area measures, the total closure of the economy, when the biggest performance of this programme was, I just point out, 80 percent of the supergross wage with the 39,000 limit per job, with the fact that it was for those companies that had been shut down by the state decision. I've got the last numbers for July, we haven't gotten any fresher numbers on the committee yet. I'm not complaining, I'm just saying. And in July, the delivery was only $45 million. So, logically, they were local contagions, so, locally, some business could have shut down, or some kind of traffic. So it's doing its job. And the recommendation of our parliamentary committee is that Antivirus A continue until the end of the year. That means, if someone has to close down their business, operate, the company, they can use Antivirus A if it's extended, and their employees get 80 percent of their super gross wages by the end of the year, I say with that limit. And then from 1. 1. kursarbeit is totally cool. Another situation is when we evaluate the Antivirus B program, which simply says it's for companies that don't have work to do and send employees home, and they're so-called obstacles to the employer's side. This is, of course, a standard condition that, in a normal situation, if it is not a mass phenomenon, is dealt with under the Labour Code, there is determined exactly the remuneration that the employee, who is at home from the employer's decision, is fulfilling the reasons that are on the part of the employer. [[Nesroz.]] This programme was evaluated by our commission and agreed that it was operational again, it fulfilled its purpose - especially in the months of March to May. That's important. At the same time, we agreed in the Commission that this programme should have ended by 31 August at the latest. If our commission doesn't consider it a program that should continue, then logically I don't see the problem whether cursarbeit will be from 1 November or 1 January. And let's face it, if in six months someone hasn't been able to find the filling for that particular job, what are the odds that they'll be able to do it during the seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth month? I think it's almost zero. I'm not saying zero, but almost zero. So I think it's more honest for the employees to leave the job, get a severance payment under the Labour Code, and they'll definitely find an employer who likes to hire them today. We're still hearing that they're still unable to find other employees across the political spectrum. Because the changed economic situation, of course, almost destroys many sectors - tourism, restaurants, bars, but also live culture, various events. On the other hand, it creates opportunities for other fields of business, where they thrive and when, thanks to the changed economic situation, they have a surplus of contracts and a shortage of employees. I'm talking about it so long because I wanted to point out that I don't see the problem if the cursarbeit, well prepared, well thought out, well discussed, will apply from 1 January. I think this is better than being rushed into a legislative emergency in a few hours to discuss dozens of amendments and possibly make a mistake. Of course, I think that if the proposal is well discussed, the risk of the Senate returning it will be reduced. If we approved him today, I'm pretty sure the upper chamber would give us the bill back. I think we are able, within the political parties, to debate the specific bill, to speak with our colleagues from the upper chamber, and to try to find support in the upper chamber during the debate in the House. And it's the so-called lost time that we're about to lose today, if we don't vote for a legislative emergency, we're actually going to replace it. Because the upper chamber has 30 days, and then it has to be here 10 days before we get back to it, and so on, we all know it, the deadlines. So if we get this ready, we're gonna work at the same time, we're gonna debate with our colleagues in the upper chamber, so we're gonna catch up on the lost time, and in time, the bill will pass through the lower and upper chamber. [[9.40 hours]] We'll discuss the program another time, won't we? When you open the debate on the agenda, I will then comment on the changes to the programme that we will propose in the next speech. I tried to explain rationally and factually why it is not appropriate for us to discuss this today in a state of legislative emergency. It is not an evil will of the opposition, on the contrary, we are prepared to participate in this particular text in order to protect, where appropriate, jobs that have meaning. It doesn't make sense to protect jobs that don't really exist anymore after six months. And we have to figure out who's paying them. Neither the state, nor the government, nor the House, nor the Senate, but the non-existent jobs are paid by those who go to work, who work and who pay taxes, social and health insurance. They're also paid for by the non-existent jobs. Among other things, we will certainly get to the parameters of the law, but I will leave this to the debate best in first reading and between first and second reading in individual committees. Thank you. And I believe that I have at least partially convinced you and that this bill will be discussed in a standard legislative process.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. Since a few of you have come to ask me, I've got texts coming in, I'll recap. It's like President Stanjura said. At this point, we are discussing a legislative emergency, not a new meeting programme. I have already intercepted an agreement that the legislative emergency will probably not receive sufficient support, but then we will discuss the programme, but the cursarbeit will not be possible to discuss because the ten-day deadline is not met, but the agreement from Gremia applies that we place a point on the intended emergency. This will probably be the only point of the 60th meeting and we will place the cursarbeit, this debate will probably move to the Organizing Committee, which is convened after lunch, on some other date after the agreement of all. And now all the priority rights. First, Prime Minister Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u12	Good morning. Mr President, Prime Minister, the remaining four members of the government, thank you for the opportunity to speak here today as well. I am sorry, I have now taken the priority right because, like the other Presidents of the Houses, we are going to one debate at 10:30, so I am using the space now, as the Prime Minister may have spoken here. We are in a difficult situation, facing many decisions, including what the government will be doing today to declare an emergency. I'd like to return here with permission to perhaps one of the key events that was in August of this year. I took an interview with you to help, Prime Minister, which you gave for Law, which came out on 21st and 22nd August. [[He's showing the press.]] It was the weekend edition of Law, where you already say in the headline, quote, Babiš: "We made the right decision, people are fed up with drapes." And I think it would have been fair if you had said, admitted and evaluated this not only your statement, but your decision, which you, as Prime Minister, made by making a significant contribution to the proposal that Minister Adam Vojtěch then came up with, was based on the expert debate of people such as Professor Maďar, who then left the team, and said also how responsible you are for the current situation in which we are and in which we will still be, and who will touch hundreds of thousands of people in the Czech Republic in the context of the fact that parents will have to deal with how to secure their children, many companies, tradesmen will have to deal with how they can cope with the situation in the coming days and weeks. We are in a situation where in March there were 35 people who died with covid, in April it was 201 - and we are not at the end of September and it is 211. And I'm only going to quote two brief answers from the interview. The editor's question: "You say it's not chaos, but the Ministry of Health decides something on the one hand, and on the other hand you negotiate with athletes here, here with representatives of culture about exceptions. Aren't you able to make a deal before you come up with anything?" Your answer: "I agree that we should inform people when we are clearly drawing on how to proceed. That's why I'm saying the original decision was premature and unnecessary. He was poorly communicated by health care as part of his professional team. It was illogical and contrary to the opinion of the central management team as well as the opinion of the clinical and laboratory group. Anyone with common sense, which is my main tool of work, could not understand it and was surprised by it. That's why we changed it on Thursday." And the second question: "Your personal intervention may seem to fit into the role of an epidemiologist who decides." Your answer: "We have not spoken to epidemiologists in a fundamental way in the past, but we are in a phase where we need to protect people and at the same time do our utmost to get back to normal. We do not want to paralyze social, cultural, sports and economic life. Just look at a public debate where even experts are unable to unite. Some claim that drapes are important, others are useless. But we are responsible. People are already fed up with different regulations, which is why I think we made the right decision now. Decisions will follow the traffic light, and if the situation gets worse, we will respond immediately. And I repeat, I am responsible for how the government and ministers will work." So much for this conversation. Perhaps it would be a good idea, Prime Minister, if you could go back to that and tell us how you judge the decision today at a distance when you said that you came into this on the basis of your common sense, and you have full responsibility for it. And now I'm going to move on to what Minister Hamáček said here. We can document this on the basis of the screen recordings during not only April but also June and July. We've been intervening here, asking, begging, putting forward legislative proposals to better prepare for the second wave, to have a smart quarantine working here, to have a functional route here, to have it adopted and discussed over the holidays by the security law. At the end of June, Minister Hamáček said how we would do this during the holidays. We had a business meeting, some of us were there, and we discussed that such a proposal would be discussed no later than the month of September. Nothing happened at all. It's the end of September, and there's no such proposition on the table. We are in a situation where, from the beginning of September, thousands of parents have been confronted with having to stay home with their children in the infirmary, as part of the fact that they have locked up their class, or the children have been haunted and quarantined. What kind of help did the government prepare for these people? According to data of the Singles Association, 50 percent of singles and singles had no reserves at all in August. Where is any systemic aid to these people? There's talk of cursarbeit. It's okay. But that's one group of part of the company. Is anyone talking about businessmen, small and medium-sized companies, how to help them, how to help businessmen who don't use cursarbeit? I'd like her to be really here when we're in that situation, systemic, well-thought-out measures. Thank you at least for the part of the performance that Minister Prymula said here. But Minister, I have a request. You said, "I'm not going to discuss the draft measures in detail here." I beg you, too, for the people who are watching us, take them into detail and please say on the basis of data that we have, for example, from tracking: we know that the most risky areas where people meet are these areas. Back it up with the data and say, that's why we're gonna cut it down. At that point, it's not only meaningful, but it's credible. All of us, even those people, will understand it, they will respect it, they won't make fun of it like they made fun of last night's football playing instead of eleven ten team members, making fun of the fact that 200, 300 people can sit in the theater, but at an outdoor sports game in a village where they should be separated and drapes, there can be no one at all. It's hard for us to explain to these people. On 8 September of this year, I asked the Prime Minister for two things: to call the Central Crisis Staff - this only happened after more than two weeks, and to invite all the representatives of the Houses of the Parties to the negotiations. Because even if we are drawn into your problems, into your thoughts and into your solutions, we will be able to do much more to our people, our voters, the people who are turning to us, explain why the government is doing it, how it does it, and that the measures give some logic, make sense. And at this point, I don't know how to explain it to people. They will remain without any major chain restrictions, supermarkets. How are we going to explain this to people who are going to lose about 15 to 40 percent of their sales today because of your measures and have no promise of compensation so far? Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Trade said more than a week ago: We have given enough to these people. But those people, many of them, they do business in Prague, downtown, I talk to them, they say, "But we've reached all the reserves for the first wave, and now somebody's keeping us down and there's no promise of support at all." With this, it's hard to go and communicate with people. [[9.50 hours]] We prepared for KDU-ČSL and today submitted a proposal for the infirmary to apply under the conditions as they were in the case of the first wave. We gave the proposal to be approved at first reading. I very much ask that the government not refuse to give a minimum neutral opinion on this in order to take this measure in the House. What do you want to say, members of the government, parents who will be home, who will have to live on debt at this point if they lose 40 percent of their income? What do you want to say to them? The same with the tradesmen I mentioned here. And I want to ask you, Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior and Minister of Health - have we managed to set up the purchase of protective equipment by supporting domestic companies? Yesterday I read from public information that yes, some of them buy state material reserves from Czech companies. But unfortunately not from manufacturers. They're smugglers who buy production from China again. Why? Why are we paying the same tax again and the same mistake to China after six months? Taiwan was able to be fully self-sufficient in 90 days in the production of its own protective equipment for the entire population. Please answer me, Minister, as has been done with the offer of the Czech nanotechnology producer association. These people came to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Industry and Trade at the beginning of July and offered an offer that they wanted to help and cooperate with the state and they wanted to offer systemic solutions to places such as schools, kindergartens, hospitals, nursing homes, so that technical means could reduce the normal amount of viruses as such through nanotechnology and other technologies. I know from these people that they made the offer. But no one - no one - ever talked to them again. Ask Mr. Kůs, Mr. Procházka and others. How is it possible that in such a situation the state rejects well-founded, capable people who offer long-term technological solutions? Not only the solution to the consequences, but the elimination of the causes. It's completely forgotten. Mr. Health Minister, please give a message to many people who are contacting me about the services. There is a large part of the people for whom this question is very important. On the one hand, the chains will go, the shops will be able to go shopping, but the services will be restricted again? Give a clear answer to that, too. The last government completely forgot about it. I understand that no one in this area feels any need to see how many people are involved and what impact this has on them. I'm sorry, I have some specific things here that I would ask you to give answers to, and not for my sake, but for the vast number of people who say, we are most afraid of uncertainty. We don't know how long it's gonna take. These people are stressed out. They're sick of it. But if they can explain things to them and they have logic, they can understand it. And if they know that the state will help them and how long it will last, it's easier to bear. You were talking about the short-term measures. But please tell me what short-term is. At what numbers will they be canceled? At what number of R factor, or at what number of positive tests per day? This too is important for those people to hear, so that there is hope in this situation. So many of my specific questions. Unfortunately, I had to remind some things, because it is also important to know that we would not have to deal with many things today if the government had decided significantly differently on 21 August. And in the end, I join the challenge that Home Secretary Jan Hamáček said here so that people would vote so that they would have the courage not only to come up with the choice, but also to evaluate how he evaluates the solution to the situation and how the steps taken or did not fall on them and their families. For us, for KDU-ČSL, we are ready to be constructive. Many of the proposals that we have put forward will be very happy when the government adopts and eventually reaches them, such as the infirmary. We are ready to nominate Vít Kaňkovský again to the Central Crisis Staff. I don't think he was a useless member. And I'm going back to the last one. Prime Minister, call a meeting of the party chairmen, because this is not just about declaring an emergency. But if there are impacts to be made, such as the abolition of a supergross wage, other measures that will result in a budget loss of more than CZK 150 billion next year, these things have a significant overlap over this government's term of office. I think it's fair to all who here are very likely to be responsible for these things in the years to come, and they will have to deal with them in order to deal with them. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. The next person with priority rights will be President Pekarová Adamová. President Farský and Rakušan have withdrawn their applications, saying that they will proceed to the point of Government Information on emergency status.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u14	Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to make a very brief comment on the Minister Prymula's contributions and the Prime Minister's announcement of an emergency, because I miss a lot of things there. I lack an apology from the Prime Minister because he is the one who bears full responsibility for the government, its actions and its failure. And declaring an emergency now in the fall is nothing more than admitting absolute failure and underestimating the situation by the government. The unpreparedness during the summer months, when the outbreak was relatively calmer, is catching up with us now. And who is responsible for this, and who, in March, in front of the television cameras of many television stations, said they were receiving it? Yes, Prime Minister. The apology is therefore appropriate, because people are severely punished by what is happening, whether those who are directly ill, and hopefully the dead will not increase so much, but, of course, those who are restricted by all possible measures, and others are to come. Next thing I know, if we take steps to limit someone's earning, whether it's business, or he's a freelance businessman now, whoever they are, so that at the same time help comes, that there will be a mechanism that will be started immediately, and that doesn't mean that we'll limit, for example, as it is today, the opening hours of restaurants, pubs and other businesses, but we'll pretend that we've helped enough in the past. These people are balancing on the edge of the abyss. And many will fall into it if we don't intervene in time. TOP 09 has prepared a compensation law in this regard. We're presenting it this week. And I firmly believe that if you are serious about not wanting the economic effects to be profound, you will support this initiative. It is clearly a legal mechanism that will assure everyone that if there are any restrictions and measures that affect business, people's trades, the state will immediately lend a helping hand, it will have a duty to do so. That's what I think is the only thing that can calm the public at this point. Indeed, we have hundreds of people who are employed in or operating the businesses concerned that they are already balancing on the edge. Let's at least give them the certainty, but of course help at the same time. I ask that you also publish data, information about how you work with the Pandemic Plan of the Czech Republic. We all know that Minister Vojtěch spent the summer giving the Central Epidemiology Commission a holiday, that it hadn't met for four months, and that even at the beginning of the epidemic, the pandemic plan was activated late. According to him, it was not followed at the beginning of the year when the epidemic was already in the surrounding states, when it was already on all continents, and it still does not work according to it. I want to know why that is and when it will be corrected. At the same time, I ask that what happens, unfortunately, is no longer happening after the arrival of the new Minister of Health, that preparations are published in the public space, in the media. It's not a decision made, but it's just a thought. I will give an example specifically from the weekend when the Minister says on one discussion programme: we could close the schools by Wednesday, or also on Friday, and there will also be fewer opportunities to gather, either twenty or ten people tops. Those are semi-finished products. And when the editor asked if it would touch the weddings and it would take 30 people, the minister just nodded, about 30 people. [[10.00 hours]] I don't think communication is supposed to look like that. That's an example of how you just don't find people. As you put some partial considerations into public space, which then live their own lives and which do not bring what we ask of you here from the very spring. So that there's clear specific communication, so that you can make a deal with each other earlier. Perhaps this has been mentioned so many times, as it happened with the schools and with the principal's leave and Minister Plaga, that I don't need to mention it anymore. We offer for us, of course, as always, because we do this throughout the epidemic, professional assistance, whether in the field of health or economics. We make our own proposals and want to be as constructive as possible. Because we really don't care about any political points at this point, but we're after people's lives, their health. That's what we should all be interested in. I still want to appeal to one neglected area. A huge amount of disinformation is spreading with regard to conavir related to vaccination, etc. Please, government, be active in this. We're also proactive in this, and we're handing out a helping hand. Because this is a very dangerous thing, and that all the efforts that health professionals now have on their shoulders, whether doctors or nurses and others, but also a number of other involved experts, are very undermining. Please be more consistent and active in this. I think it is crucial now that the emergency situation, if you are to use it, is well communicated and that you give people confidence that you are actually implementing these measures on the basis of the facts that are available. We're hearing about what the current reproductive number is, but we're also hearing that a whole series of cases aren't haunted because it just doesn't catch up with hygiene. Of course, these estimates are difficult to make, but please publish as much information as possible. And do not turn your back, as you have done so far, on our constructive proposals, they come from experts, and they can help and relieve people in this country, whether health or economic. We don't want to turn our backs on them, and we want you to communicate with us. That is why I am joining the requests to communicate more in this autumn at the level of the party chairmen. We've only done it a few times in the spring, let's do it better this time, and hopefully we can do the whole epidemic better. And in conclusion, I want us to give people the confidence that we've worked together to figure out ways to vote for people from isolation or quarantine. So they won't be afraid to come to the election. Let us remember that the Ministry of the Interior still claimed in July that these people would lose this fundamental right. We do not want them to lose any of their rights, and we do not want them to lose the possibility that must have happened in the spring, i.e. the opportunity to travel abroad etc. Even voting rights are one of those that are fundamental. And I'm glad that it's worked out and that it's succeeded, and hopefully, now we can just knock it out, realize it. That is why I ask people to come to the elections and also to assess how the government can or cannot handle the epidemic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President Okamura, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Babiš for the YES movement and Minister of the Interior, Chairman of the ČSSD Jan Hamáček, are here today to tell us that they are promoting an emergency. And they want to cut back on our citizens' lives. They want to limit the lives of our citizens economically and socially. I would like to begin by stressing that the protection of the lives and health of our citizens comes first for the SPD movement. The problem, however, is that the government clearly does not know whether what it is constantly proposing for action, whether it is really needed for anything. In addition to causing panic and other economic and social frustrations for people, apart from some media election campaign to tell voters before Friday's election: Watch! We'll use all the levers to show you that we're running this against your will. Martin Balík, head of the Clinic of Anesthesiology, resuscitation and intensive medicine of the General Faculty Hospital, the doctor who was the first to treat seriously ill with covid in the spring, recently said this, quote: Corona we will not stop. For most, it's a cold. The numbers of the dead are distorted, politicians are using him. End of quote. His claims are now confirmed by other experts. We would therefore expect that when the government of YES and ČSSD proposes a state of emergency when it wants to limit the lives of our citizens, so that the government will present statistics and facts based on an analysis that might say: COVID-19 is dangerous, because so many people have become ill and so many people have died and are threatened to die even more. We would expect the government, in case of covid, to declare an emergency, to draw up and present an epidemic plan similar to what we have, for example. for influenza epidemics, when the exact number is set, how many people must get sick to trigger protective epidemic measures, which, by the way, occur quite regularly at the time of the influenza epidemics. Of course, the government didn't just do this, but it didn't even try. It just wants to declare an emergency, with a large number of our citizens already having major financial and social difficulties because their incomes have fallen or lost their jobs. At the same time, the government not only proposes effective support for citizens who are economically and socially affected by government measures, but even rejects constructive proposals and solutions from the SPD. We are repeatedly proposing that the government change the law on public procurement, so that Czech companies will now be given priority in the crisis. So that public money, public investment goes only to Czech companies with Czech owners who pay taxes in the Czech Republic, employ Czech employees and do not issue dividends abroad. But the government doesn't want to do it. We've suggested here as an SPD to forgive employers for paying social security for their employees so the state would pay for them. Which would help to keep - we suggested by the end of the year. Our proposal has been voted on here, the SPD proposal. The government turned us down. We want to keep jobs so they don't get fired. For the SPD here we propose repeatedly that VAT be paid only from paid invoices, only from paid invoices, thus helping businessmen, small and medium-sized Czech companies. Because I don't understand why the state is collecting money from businessmen and small and medium-sized companies for something that those businessmen didn't get paid at all. Especially now in a crisis, we could relieve all the businessmen. And the SPD suggests we leave them money in companies that didn't even cash in. In order to help them keep cash flow, and even EU legislation for small and medium-sized companies allows it to pay VAT, VAT was paid on really paid invoices. The government is constantly rejecting this SPD proposal. Furthermore, we have advocated a flat-rate tax for businessmen for the SPD. I've been pushing this place for seven years. Finally, in the crisis, the government has adopted this proposal of mine, and it is here in the House, and I am glad for that, because the flat-rate tax for businessmen will make business business more expensive and reduce bureaucracy. And now, in a crisis, it really is still necessary, because we need people, together with rising unemployment, to keep themselves busy. So they won't be afraid to employ themselves and develop any activities. So we want to relieve the businessmen here after many years of martyria. The government adopted my proposal, but it hasn't passed the House yet. Flat-rate tax for businessmen. [[10.10 hours]] The SPD, of course, supports cursarbeit, because we want it to hold on to jobs. However, once again, the government has put the proposal in the wrong place. We're gonna talk about him here in the near future. Because the government does not want to support citizens who work on fixed-term contracts. This means that the government has proposed the proposal to discriminate against essentially part of the employees, while we as SPD want them all to receive the support in the form of cursarbeit, because it is these fixed-term contracts that are most used against those, I would say, socially weaker, or against citizens in a weaker position, that is, they are often disabled fellow citizens, people in pensions, they are often students, they are often single mothers, and the government has actually allocated them, so they should not be entitled to be in the Kursarbeit system and their jobs would not be supported, which shocked me completely, the asocial policy of the government of the ANO, ČSSD. And we have already put in an amendment, our Mrs Šafránková, to eliminate this discrimination so that we can support the maintenance of jobs for all working citizens. So, of course, we have already replaced this lack that the government has put forward here as the SPD, and now the question is whether there will be a vote for our amendment here and whether the government will support it. Of course, here too, as a support measure, which the government unfortunately rejects, and it's again from the SPD pen, we have a law here to increase the discount on the taxpayer, that is, an increase in the deductible item for all working citizens. By the way, the deductible item, the discount on the taxpayer, hasn't increased for 12 years. Here we see the priorities for all existing governments, including current working people. That means, except for the lowest one. That's exactly the opposite of what we see in the SPD. On the contrary, decent people are first for us and also workers. The SPD proposal would bring an extra CZK 1,035 in each citizen's wallet, and the government refuses to do so. This means that the government here wants to declare an emergency, that is, restricting the work and the lives of citizens again, essentially taking money from them, because sales will decrease again, unemployment will rise again, but at the same time the government will reject the constructive SPD proposals, the concrete bills that would help, on the contrary, at least when the government, because it has a majority here, or with the support of the KSČM, so we, the opposition, hardly overrule it, so the government should at least accept the SPD proposals to help those decent working people keep jobs, keep those companies running, so they don't run, and so on. But unfortunately, the government doesn't do that. Anyway, we'll keep talking you into it. And we know why. But back to the covide. The government, or it's all about covid, but back to the plague now. And we also know why the government doesn't actually have the statistical data, the ones I was talking about, because it still doesn't know how many people actually died on COVID-19, and it doesn't know that for a simple reason because they don't autopsy the deceased. And if there was an autopsy on a fraction of them, we know about cases where the dead didn't even have covid at the time of death, and yet they were included in the statistics of the deceased on covid. Because the pathologists who claim that no man at their hospital actually died of covid, even though it is so marked, have already heard from them. But it's not just an emergency. This is a general spread of fear and panic from a disease where the responsible people in the government did not take the job to analyse whether or not we should be afraid. Only if we know the real threats can we decide what measures are appropriate and necessary. There is little talk of it, but in the Czech Republic, for example, about 1,300 people commit suicide each year, and the number of people in depression has tripled from the beginning of covid panic, according to psychiatrists. Another theme is constant attempts to limit care for patients with diseases other than covid. Here too, doctors draw attention to health damage resulting from restrictions on the care of sick patients with oncological and other diseases. So if we're talking about covid, first of all, the government should bring - and we've been through six months - hard data on how many people tested have really gotten sick, how many people have died of covid according to autopsy reports. Because, as we know, and many experts have confirmed it, the number of positive tested does not mean the number of patients. That's an important sentence that needs to be said. And according to these data, it is necessary to assess who and how is at risk and how to protect vulnerable groups. But we don't have anything like that on the government's desk today, just mutual media messages from ministers and Prime Minister in the sense that I'm going to propose an emergency and I'm going to support it. This is not only unprofessional, but really deeply destructive. It is not really possible to mess with the lives of ten million of our citizens. And today the public - writing me a huge number of citizens, thousands a day, literally thousands a day - has great doubts about what is and what is not necessary, because this is what follows from this problematic communication, from the problematic proposals that are constantly falling here. According to the information available, the statistics of the deceased on covid are actually faked, because the dead people actually died of completely different diseases, only they were positive at some time. And hold on - some have not been positive even at the time of death. Yet they were classified in statistics as deceased on COVID-19. Two pathologists from Prague Hospital Na Bulovce, Jana Válkyová and Michaela Ledinská, provided portal news.cz a shocking conversation in which they openly described their experience with the autopsies of patients reported to have died of coronavirus. 27 patients died at Na Bulovka Hospital from the beginning of the alleged pandemic until the interview, to coronavirus, said in quotation marks. In fact, no one died of coronavirus there. The 27 patients were reported to have covid positive, but if coronavirus somehow affected their death, this relationship is inconclusive, obscured, or none. As can be seen from the statements of both pathologists, the autopsy was performed in only three patients. Well, not all 27, as you might expect at the time of the alleged pandemic that crippled the country's operation. All three autopsies were over 60 years old, two of them over 70 years old. In addition, two autopsies at the time of death, according to pathologists, were no longer coronavirus, since in the meantime, he disappeared from their organism, and perhaps he was not there because the error rate of the tests may be up to 30 percent. Yet they are led by statistics - they died of coronavirus. If the above-mentioned truth is true, this is not only evidence of the falsifying of statistics and the deliberate creation of a false epidemic, it is evidence of a complete failure of the system. Because if we have - and we can't rule it out - some dangerous virus, then I would expect proper documentation, not just how many people have met the virus, but how many people who have met the virus have really gotten sick and how many have actually died from it. Instead, the government and the ministry are fencing numbers, how many people are positive for covid. To this day, the Ministry of Health has not adopted any standard for the outbreak of COVID-19, as is the case with influenza, where the standard for declaring an epidemic is between 1,600 and 1,800 patients per 100,000 inhabitants. I stress - really sick, not infected. Once again, we do not know how many patients are really just for covid and how many have other serious diseases and are only positive for covid. I must say that, in order to examine statistics, I was moved by an Italian Member who, after reviewing the statistics, discovered that out of the alleged 25,000 victims of covid in Italy, 86 percent of them actually died of something completely different. And we should ask how many people in our country are really sick on COVID-19, and how many have actually died from infection with this virus. Again, I say, not positive, but really ill. In the Czech Republic, according to the State Health Institute, less than a million people each year suffer the flu and are associated with almost 2,000 deaths a year on average. Why, in the case of covid, is the government taking epidemiological measures, and why has no one taken such measures in the event of an epidemic of influenza that kills much more? And we've got the flu meds, at least part of the people get vaccinated. And my question needs to be explained because it's not an Okamura question, but it's a citizen's question. That's one of the questions that one citizen doesn't send me, but that's actually thousands of citizens. And I have to say, that's why I'm bringing up some of the suggestions here, besides the facts that citizens are asking me, and I promised that I would of course ask the Prime Minister and Minister Hamáček here, and possibly the new Minister of Health. There is no vaccine on COVID-19 and supposedly no proper medication, or there is not yet a vaccine that is spread everywhere. Covid's disease seems to be affected by, for example, the 50-year-old drug isoprinosin and apparently other cheap and affordable medicines. [[10.20 hours]] Vaccinologist and head doctor The center of vaccination and travel medicine in Hradec Králové Jiří Beran isoprinosin successfully treated himself and son. In the Litovel home of seniors, 20 of them became ill with COVID-19. The attending doctor prescribed isoprinosine and neither of the old people aged 87 to 94 with other diseases succumbed to covid. A miracle? It's hard to say. Seems like if you want to, covid doesn't have to be that big of a deal. The effects of isoprinosine significantly and provenly support the body' s immune response, which can deal with coronavirus much better. This medicine is standardised for the treatment of coronanavir in Poland, Hungary, Romania or Slovakia. Why not us? Because it's a cheap generic, and we still have pharmaceutical virus lobbyists running at the Ministry? And since it's a cheap cure, no one's gonna make money on it, that's why it's not used here in the Czech Republic? Isn't that the truth? Isn't that the real thing? Especially when I remind you that this medicine is standardised in the surrounding countries. So I'd like to ask the new Minister for information on how many people have actually died on COVID-19. Only on COVID-19. And why do those who haven't died of covid count to the sick, even those who haven't been examined for cause of death, and why pathologists, if they're telling the truth, cause of death in people who suspect the disease isn't researched, but in reality, it's just a compliment to anyone who's passed by the covid. Maybe it wasn't all the cases, but apparently the doctors here say it's the way it's done. Inaccurate data has a problem with the fact that we don't know the real state of things. And if we don't know the real situation, it's hard to handle it qualifiedly. But the problem is that when there are no precise data, it is precisely in contrast with the ten million lives of citizens of the Czech Republic who need to work, they need to live economically and socially. And indeed, many people are losing their jobs, their incomes have decreased, and they are in desperate economic and social situations because of these measures. And I therefore call once again for the government to put clear data on the table, because I really do not blame a huge number of citizens, that they are insecure and that they simply cease to believe it or even no longer believe it. I'm beating the alarm again because people don't have money. And as we know, now in the fall, the economic and social situation of citizens is going to deteriorate because statements are running out, severance payments are running out. And unfortunately, as I said before, the state does not offer any real support options to keep both jobs systemically and in operation small and medium-sized companies that are the backbone of our economy, including businessmen. And it's really coming, and I've been pointing out here since spring, a social and economic disaster that the state has no money for, and at the same time we haven't adopted here - neither has the government adopted any laws that would face this, and it also rejects the constructive SPD proposals that lie here. So I would like to call on the government, even though it seems to me that it is getting late and that these people are really going to be out of money because the government is rejecting the economic and social laws that we are proposing here, and they're going to be out of work, which is going to affect, of course, all the families where they have disabled pensioners have disabled people, elderly pensioners, single mothers, it's all tied up in those families when they lose their incomes, their jobs. And I'm really warning you, I'm already on alert, but it feels like it's getting really late, because the government hasn't used the time we've had in the last few months for this legislative preparation. And I would like to briefly comment on what the Minister of the Interior of Hamáček has said here, that he has submitted a constitutional law on security, and that he has quite inappropriately concluded here that we do not want to devote ourselves to his bill here because he is before the elections. Well, I've been a member of the Constitutional Commission for years, so I guess that was the only place this has been discussed in the House so far. You know, that's where Minister Hamáček was hiding more things under the constitutional bill on security. For example, it says that the government will essentially be able to repeat the elections infinitely, virtually. Infinitely delaying the election. And I was the only one there to stop at it, and then other colleagues from other parties basically gave me the truth that it needed to be explained. Because, on the basis of the state of danger that he still wants to put in the Constitution to limit citizens' rights and trades at a lower level again and again, to restrict citizens' movements, he creates a new state, a state of danger, a state of emergency is already there, so he basically put in there so quietly that the government will be able to postpone elections repeatedly. And that is indeed a very dangerous proposal. That's why it was basically not discussed with the Constitutional Commission. And the Deputy Minister of the Interior, who was there on behalf of Minister Hamáček, was assigned to explain it until next time. So, infinity according to the Constitution, according to the proposal of the Minister of Home Affairs, Hamáček will be able to postpone the election. The government. The government will be able to. And that is an absolutely unacceptable matter for us. It's written there for six months and it's written in the next sentence - but it's also written repeatedly. This is an unacceptable matter entirely. This is an unacceptable matter. Again, I call on Minister Hamáček, as we told him in the summer, when he wanted to restrict citizens in the possibility of participating in regional and senate elections that will be this Friday and this Saturday, and we explained to him that the Minister is not here to think about how to restrict citizens' electoral rights, but rather to figure out how to allow people to vote. So we've all drawn up this law together in cooperation with other parties, and it's already adopted so that citizens can vote, and they can vote safely, this election. So, once again, Minister Hamáček invents a distortion of the Constitution, how he repeatedly fails to allow people to vote and postpone them indefinitely. So, of course, this is one of the major reasons why it stopped there. Because Mr Hamáček is proposing some very strange proposals. So it's not that other political parties here, including us, think about the elections, that's why we didn't want to discuss it, on the contrary, we spent a lot of time on the Constitutional Commission, but we were surprised by these proposals that were there without further explanation. And basically, the Deputy Minister of the Interior couldn't explain it. Finally, as I have already said, I would like to call on the citizens to come to the elections. The election will be important. It's not just about regional and senate elections. Even on the basis of the legislation we adopted here, we will keep an eye on them, including our members of the electoral committees, so that the elections take place safely, so that they comply with hygiene standards. So don't be afraid to come to the election, come on Friday and vote on Saturday. These elections aren't just about regional and senate topics, they're about national issues. And we need to make it clear how we feel about all of this. Not only about the covido, but also about the political parties' work so far here in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u17	Thank you. For work reasons, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes for the rest of today's negotiations. With a point of fact, President Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u18	Good morning, colleagues. I would just like to respond in fact to President Okamura's speech, which included, among other things, the proposal of the Ministry of the Interior, to amend the electoral law in the sense that, according to him, we want to introduce an endless delay in elections, virtually. I think we want to cancel the election. That's not true. I'd like to set it straight. Firstly, it is a proposal that is only somewhere at the very initial stage of the legislative process, virtually. before the legislative process, it is a matter that is still being discussed. But, of course, we have to think about it in some way and respond by law to a situation where elections simply cannot be made for objective reasons. That means, we have a law today where you can postpone the elections by a maximum of six months, but if you move them six months and for some reason the infrastructure of the state can't work, then the elections must take place, even if the mail doesn't work, the firefighters may not work, the power plants may not work, nothing may work. There will be an apocalypse, but there will have to be an election. That is, of course, a bad law, because in this situation, which I described as an example, the choices can't possibly be. That means we have to have an institute that responds to the situation. That means if there's a zombie apocalypse, I don't think the election can be. However, I agree that there must, of course, be some House Guards so that the government cannot postpone the election for several years. I don't think anyone would want that. But it is certainly not our goal that there are no elections here, so that citizens cannot show their will for several years. It is really only a reaction if it cannot be chosen for objective reasons, but by law it would have to be chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u19	Thank you. I, of course, respect Section 67, respect that the person who has a factual remark responds to the previous speaker, just as generally pointed out that the subject of the discussion should be an assessment of whether the legislative emergency is ongoing. A point of fact - Mr Okamura, then President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I will respond. Thank you for the comment from the ČSSD. I'd like Mr. Hamáček to think something like that. The problem is whether, through the President, Mr Chvojka, you have seen the proposal, and we have seen it on the Constitutional Commission, that there really is only a sentence basically simple, plus without explaining that not only six months, but that elections can be postponed repeatedly. And when we were the Deputy Minister of the Interior, because Minister Hamáček wasn't directly there, there was a deputy on behalf of him, so we asked him what it meant, let him explain it, and he himself acknowledged the Deputy Minister, looked at the papers and didn't know exactly. That means we're very insecure about the SPD. So let's leave the debate as it is. He's supposed to fill it in next time to explain. But really, the way it's formulated now, the government could basically postpone the final election without any further explanation. And the implementing law wasn't put forward for that either, I'm just pointing out. There was also a reproach not only to us, but also to the other members of the committee, something just in addition to the explanation. So that's why I talked about it. So it really looks like tonight either it would have to be the House insurance policy, like you said, and so on, those are the methods, but that's just not in the proposal. So now the proposal from Minister Hamáček's pen is actually designed so that, in fact, the government could endlessly postpone elections. And I'm glad to see that this is absolutely unacceptable. This is an unacceptable thing for citizens of the Czech Republic too. I noticed it there on the Constitutional Commission, virtually. We were, of course, pre-studed. That's where I pointed it out, and I'm glad that some of the other representatives who were there reflected it, and that we just have to get back to the debate, because for this, I said, the SPD could never vote for this constitutional change. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u21	Good morning, dear colleagues. Another to the general debate on the point of legislative emergency - Mrs Richterová. Please note that this is a point of whether or not there is a legislative emergency. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor. I will quite specifically comment on the context for legislation, namely whether it is really necessary for us to discuss the Cursarbeit Act in a state of legislative emergency. I consider this a very important topic, because it is a huge intervention in the whole market, in the business. Kurzarbeit is something we need, but we need it to work well and make it really a little bit sophisticated. It is clear that some things will be tuned in the course, but in the state of legislative emergency, as the government has proposed, there is absolutely no chance of adopting the law in the form that our country deserves. It's the way it's designed, Bianca check to the government. It does not give any certainty to entrepreneurs or employees, what exactly will be expected, and the scope for government unlimited by any more specific criteria, the possibility of actually supporting companies that have work only for one day a week, or even for four days a week and in between, to set any criteria for launching, is really too much. And another thing. In fact, in a state of legislative emergency, this would be adopted by a law which also sets up precisely because of understatements, I would say errors, unequal treatment between employees and does not take into account that some things are already regulated in the Labour Code. So that's one very important thing. Please, this is exactly the kind of comprehensive law that affects many areas that cannot be discussed in a state of legislative emergency. Instead, it has already fallen here, these tools are in the form of Antivirus programs, it is possible to extend the Antivirus C program - the remission of contributions, it would come to us for the pirát, and thus match with the necessary support. I therefore ask that other colleagues consider that the cursarbeit as a complex and complex proposal does not fall under legislative emergency, it is possible, but really carefully with the instrument of legislative emergency. And that's one more question for me about this debate on the Minister of Health, and that's -- it's really the fact that the state of emergency declared throughout the territory should be absolutely, absolutely exceptional, it should be taken only in the last resort. And that is why it is still not clear to me what the absolutely hard reasons and results of these are, for example, on the basis of which analyses or models are envisaged by the specific measure of hitting the reproductive number that has been mentioned here. There really needs to be a question - and I am simply asking that we know the reasons -
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u23	Madame, I may interrupt you, because this will be the subject of a separate item of the Government's information on the planned declaration of emergency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u24	Okay, I'm gonna put an end to the state of legislative emergency that we're asking for the cursarbeit to be properly discussed, our country deserves it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u25	Thank you. I don't have anyone logged in electronically or in writing. Madam Secretary Maláčová, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Madam, honourable Members, I think that, on the basis of this debate, it will really be more important at this point in time to make such an important law as the proposal for a permanent introduction. cursarbeit, so that we can discuss it in a proper legislative process. I think that such an important law deserves this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u27	Thank you, Minister. I've summoned all the Members to the O.R. Since I have no one else enrolled in the general debate, I am ending the general debate. At this point, we will proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency'. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In voting number 2, 106 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 1, against 40. The proposal was rejected and therefore the state of legislative emergency was not approved. We will now proceed to the proposal for the 60th meeting, as shown on the invitation. First, proposals from the Gremium. It proposes to include a new item in the proposal for a programme The Government's Information on the planned declaration of emergency and discuss it today. That's all on my side. I now ask the Members of Parliament to comment on the proposal for a programme. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. We can't discuss the originally proposed point, so I suggest two new points that we put in point 1, that is, points 2 and 3. The first is the House press 947, simplified extension of the Antivirus C programme by the end of this year. Let me just remind you that this is the social security waiver that small companies pay up to 50 employees of 24.8% in total, with a minimum of 90 per cent of the jobs they had in March and a minimum of 90 per cent in wages that are in March. It's an effective tool, it's about 4 billion. CZK monthly savings for these small companies. If we approve, these small companies will hold these jobs and have the money to order goods and services, pay their suppliers and avert the threat of secondary insolvency. It is proposed in the scheme § 90 para. 2. We fully respected the law with all parameters, as it was approved, even though we had a different idea. And the law is very simple. The one originally approved says that this measure applies to June to August. And we propose that this be true for September to December. [[10.40 hours]] I am very surprised when the Minister keeps saying that cursarbeit is needed to replace the Antivirus, which I understand. The programs were three, but this program completely forgets, does not speak, it is 31 percent of employees working in small companies, more than 100 thousand. employers asked for it for the first month. I don't have any more numbers. I only have numbers for June. Over 100 thousand. companies, almost 800 thousand. employees, it'll save social security so they can use the money somewhere else. So when you talk about so many saved jobs, it's not saved jobs, it's support to those companies that have maintained employment and that pay their employees every month' wages, who pay taxes that pay health insurance. The second proposal - it is like point 3 of today's 60th meeting, House Press No. 948, with a similar theme, this time about 700 thousand. tradesmen who use the program, virtually. The law. Again, it was a government bill that, from March to August, for a period of six months, allowed self-employed persons who pay social security to not pay a minimum advance on social security. According to information from the Czech Social Security Administration, this option was used by almost 700 thousand. Traders, monthly costs are about 2.3 billion. The same applies - it will remain to these businessmen, they can use it to pay wages, they can use it to buy new goods, new funds they need for their business, new services, and to pay their suppliers. In those four months, the cargo would be about 9.2 billion. I'm based on the numbers of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Again, this bill is proposed in accordance with § 90 para. 2. And once again, he would help hundreds of thousands of businessmen. So the first bill helps hundreds of thousands of companies, about 800 thousand. staff. The other - 700 thousand. tradesmen. So if we were to approve these two bills -- and they're actually in the government's version -- they're just prolonging efficiency -- we'd be helping 1.5 miles. people who work actively and pay taxes at around 25.2 billion costs. Crowns. I think we've honestly admitted the costs that would be on the side of the state. Thank you for your support. If we're serious about wanting to support companies and businessmen who have maintained employment, they've found jobs, so here's a chance to turn those words into actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u29	Mr President, I'm just going to recap the proposal, because it's hard to hear it through the drapes after all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u30	Okay. Point No 2, House press 947, first reading...
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u31	Sorry, sorry... I'll recap. Point No 1 is a cursarbeit which will not be discussed because the legislative emergency is not approved and the conditions are not met. Point No 2 is the government's information for the planned announcement of emergency - it comes from Gremia. [[Messenger. Stanjura: In that case, point No. 3...]] House print 937... 947. [[Messenger. Stanjura: 947.]] And the next item is House Press 948. [[Messenger. Yes, that's right. Thank you.]] Thank you. Another one of the agendas was filed by Secretary Maláčová? No. Mr. Chairman, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to begin by appreciating the dialogue that is being held in this Chamber of Deputies across the political spectrum, because we have agreed in some way on this legislative state of emergency. We are all aware that this is indeed the most basic vital functions of the Czech economy, and where we must somehow pull together. Just to point you in some way when deciding on the proposals in today's program. So today, the cursarbeit cannot be discussed, and I assume that at 1:00 p.m., when the Organizing Committee is taking place, I will propose that we have a meeting next week on Wednesday at a time when it will be possible to discuss it within the current time limits. And on that Wednesday, we're going to be discussing cursarbeit, and I think it might deserve to be discussed at the same time together, the other two proposals. Because, of course, we would be having a different discussion once we discussed two laws and two points that we have just heard. Maybe it would be worth it, and it would deserve to have that discussion next door together on all those points. It is a solution to the same situation in different ways.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u33	Thank you. Mrs Richterová, Mr Martínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u34	Thank you. I have a motion to place a new point at today's 60th meeting for the previous points to be included. It is again a simple way to discuss the infirmary, namely by including point 215 at the first reading, it is also included, the House Press 695. That point 215 is compiled in the previous meeting, but what I propose is the House press 695, which is actually the proposal of Members Alena Gajdůškovášková, Jan Chvojka and others on sickness insurance. And it would be an opportunity to discuss the infirmary quickly and properly for those parents of children whose teachers or school, or they themselves are quarantined. There could be a comprehensive amendment and based on what is already in Odoku, but what the government has not yet discussed. I'm simply making this proposal because we have this clean opportunity to address both the long-term infirmary and the infirmary. I thank my colleagues very much for considering this. It's just a matter of making sure that a well-approved, well-approved infirmary is as fast as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u35	Thank you. Mr. Martínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u36	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to propose a new item on the agenda of the meeting, which would be called the Opinion of the Chamber of Deputies on the Medical Examiner. There I would like to adopt a resolution which would read: The Chamber of Deputies expresses concern about the absence of solutions to the income situation of businessmen who are now facing risks in connection with the closure of individual schools due to the pandemic situation in the Czech Republic. Furthermore, it calls on the Government to quickly prepare the conditions, to take steps to restore aid to businessmen affected by school closure, preferably by renewing the subsidy programme approved by the Government initially by Resolution No. 311 of 26 March 2020 and subsequently amended by Government Resolution No 311 of 26 March 2020 Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the placing of plant protection products on the market and amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the placing of plant protection products on the market and amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the placing of plant protection products on the market, amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 and Commission Regulation (EC) No It also asks the Government to adopt an amendment to the Health Insurance Act, which will adjust the conditions for the provision of medical care in the case of the conclusion of individual schools for both employees, businessmen and persons employed on an out-of-work agreement. The current pandemic situation is only closing individual schools, as opposed to the spring period when schools and other school establishments were closed on a flat-rate basis. The government responded to the close-out by amending the Health Insurance Act. The help of the tradesmen was then approved by the subsidy program, which was very quickly and quite successfully managed. Currently, only individual schools are closed, by decision of the founder, most often due to the occurrence of a conavir infection among pupils or a teaching body. It should be recalled that teachers are currently the most numerous professional group. The schools are closed down, including the first degree. The closure of the first level of primary schools for a number of parents who are businessmen brings a difficult situation, as they find themselves with children at home, which constitutes an obstacle to the performance of their gainful activities. The Chamber of Deputies therefore calls on the Government to respond promptly to the situation, to renew the subsidy programme and to amend the sickness insurance law and to provide the necessary assistance to parents of young children in the case of school closures. Thank you and please support this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u37	Well, thank you, too. I don't see anyone else changing the agenda. I'll recap. We will first vote on the proposal from the Gremium, this is the Government's information for the planned announcement of an emergency. Furthermore, on the proposals made by President Stanjura - the inclusion of the House's press 947 and other votes on the inclusion of the House's press 948. We will also vote on Mrs Richterová's proposal to include the House Press 695. And the last vote will be on Mr Martínek's proposal - a separate item - the opinion of the Chamber of Deputies on the Medical Examiner. I'll check you all out, please log in with your registration cards. I'm gonna sing. [[10.50 hours]] Let's take a vote. The first is a proposal from Gremia - Information of the Government for the planned announcement of an emergency state. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 3, registered by 98 Members, for 97, against 1. The motion was accepted. The next vote is Mr Stanjura's proposal to include a point, House press 947. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 4, registered by 100 Members, for 50, against no one. The motion was denied. Checking for votes? I've been expecting it. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u38	What could happen to any club, some club used more voting options than it had. So I suggest I don't have to name him to declare the vote confusing. Otherwise, I will say which club used more Members than there was a political agreement. [[Mr. Faltynek addresses the speaker outside the microphone.]] No, I don't want to name anyone, I'm not pointing at anyone, Mr. Chairman. You happen to be in front of me. So - I don't know - there can be less, there can be no more, so I suggest you declare this vote confusing without us - that can really happen to everyone. I propose that we repeat the vote on the proposed point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-09-30-ps2017-060-01-000-000.u39	Okay. It is a procedural proposal, and I will put it to the vote that we declare the vote confusing. I have begun the vote and I ask who is in favour of the procedural motion for a mistrial vote. Who's against it? Voting order number 5, 99 Members and Members signed up, for 99, there was no one against. The motion was accepted. We will vote again on the inclusion of a point, House press 947. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 6, 99 Members registered, for 49, versus 1. The motion was denied. We will proceed to the next vote and this is about the inclusion of the House Press item 948. I don't see a vote-control application here, so we're going to the next vote. I've started the vote. I ask who is 948 for the House press. Who's against it? Voting order number 7, 99 Members registered, for 49, against no one. The motion was denied. The next item is the inclusion of House Press 695, Mrs Richterová's proposal. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 8, 99 Members registered, for 44, against 2. The motion was denied. The next vote will be the proposal for a separate item by Mr Martínek, the position of the Chamber of Deputies on the infirmary, on the self-employed. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 9, 99 Members registered, for 48, against 2. The motion was denied. We will now vote on the whole proposal for the 60th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 10, 99 Members signed in for 99, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. The agenda has been approved. We will proceed to discussing individual points. The first point is the cursarbeit, which cannot be discussed because, firstly, the state of legislative emergency has not been approved and secondly, the time limits for its discussion are not met. So we're going to proceed to the next item approved by the program, and that's
