ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-004-372.u1	372. Government bill amending Act No. 137/2020 Coll., on certain adjustments in the field of sales records in connection with the announcement of emergency status / House printing 849/ - shortened negotiations In accordance with Article 99 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 5 assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law are in the accelerated procedure. I'm opening a debate that I don't see anyone reporting to. So if no one signs up for the debate, I will end the debate and proceed to the vote. I'm gonna sing. I just heard a noise. It's a check-out request, so I'll check you out. Log in with your voting cards again, all of you. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 137/2020 Coll., on certain adjustments in the field of sales records in connection with the announcement of emergency status, House printing 849, in a shortened hearing." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 157. Registered 81 Members, for 81, against none. The motion for a resolution has been approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-004-372.u2	So we will now proceed to discuss the Government's bill amending Act No. 137/2020 Coll., on certain adjustments in the field of sales records in connection with the declaration of emergency, House printing 849 - shortened negotiations. The proposal submitted shall be presented by the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Madam Secretary, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-004-372.u3	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce to you the bill amending Act 137/2020 on certain adjustments in the field of sales records in connection with the announcement of emergency status. That law was adopted in response to the announcement of an emergency because of the spread of COVID-19 disease and measures which significantly restrict the pursuit of business activities. According to the current wording of that Act, the obligations under the Sales Recording Act are abolished for the duration of the emergency state to the extent of all obligations under the Sales Recording Act, except for the obligation to treat authentication data, the certificate for the record of sales and the block of receipts so that the payer overtakes their misuse, and for a further period of three months in the scope of the registration obligation and the obligation to place the information notification. The emergency situation is currently extended until 17 May 2020. Therefore, the full start-up of sales records would take place from 19 August 2020, with taxpayers having three months to prepare, start-up or re-registration of sales, inter alia, to collect authentication data and receipts blocks at the Financial Authority. In view of current developments and the scale of the economic impact on business operators, this proposal therefore proposes that taxpayers be exempted from these obligations for a longer period than the content of the original law and that an extension of this period is proposed until the end of 2020. Therefore, the obligation to record sales and the obligation to place an information notice will apply from 1 January 2021, with taxpayers having three months before that date to prepare for the start or restart of the registration obligation, both those who have registered the sales before the start and need e.g. apply for authentication data or want to register in a special mode, so those to whom the obligation to record sales arises only on the basis of the launch of the last phase of the sales log. This is sufficient space to prepare for the registration of sales under normal arrangements or for a request for a special scheme. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-004-372.u4	There. The Committee on Budgets, to which the Government's bill was ordered by decision of the President, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 849/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of this proposal within the committee and justify any amendments. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-004-372.u5	Mr Vice-President, Members of the Government, colleagues, let me introduce you to the draft resolution of the Committee on Budgets. He discussed this amendment today and came to the following resolution. Following the introductory words, following the report and following the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on three parts of the bill; III. proposes that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic close its negotiations no later than 24 hours on 6 May 2020; IV. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that with a government bill amending Act No. 137/2020 Coll., on certain adjustments in the field of sales records in connection with the announcement of an emergency state, gave its consent without comment; V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. As far as the Committee on Budgets itself is concerned, although the resolution is without comment, some representatives of some political clubs have been amended by amendments, which they will certainly introduce to us both in general and then in a detailed debate. So much for discussing this press in the Committee on Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-004-372.u6	There. We will now decide whether to hold a general debate. I'll call the MPs to the ballroom. I'm gonna sing. I think we're in sufficient numbers here. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 158, registered 88 Members, for 80, against none. The motion has been approved. I therefore open a general debate. Mr Vojtěch Munzar came forward first. I'm just pointing out we're at 18.55, so I'll stop you at 7:00. You're unlucky, aren't you, because when I was driving last time, you were even interrupted twice. [[Fun, revival in the hall.]] So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-004-372.u7	Thank you, Mr President, that is my destiny. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing my appreciation for the proposal for a longer delay in the EET, because we have been calling for a longer delay in the EET since the beginning of emergency measures, when the Minister first said that it was impossible, and then, when we were discussing the first amendment here some week ago, it gave a disagreeable opinion on longer delays. So I'd like to appreciate that we finally have a proposal here for a longer delay of the EET. But what I consider to be very valuable in the debate and in the Minister's statement on this law is such an indirect admission that EET is a burden on business and that it is actually suffocating the economy. I'm sure you all remember here the long debate we had over the amendment to the law that should bring the third and fourth waves when we're defending not only the Ministry of Finance, but they heard from the government bench that it's not really a problem, and the costs for businessmen are minimal. Today, the Minister of Finance himself said that this is a burden on business, and he is making a motion to postpone, and to quote precisely: to let the economy breathe properly, which is a direct quote from the Twitter Minister. But he doesn't mean that those who already have an EET suddenly have no cost, because you still have to pay licenses, software, internet connection, etc. And to this day, many of them have no revenue. So what does breathing mean? For those existing deferrals, it means that they do not need to register, do not carry out checks and are not controlled by control purchases and excessive fines for a minute difference e.g. between the sale and the introduction of the sale into the EET system, for inadequate... fines for not accounting for a box of tic tac 71-year-old retired women, and I could go on and on. These are all the examples and stories we know in the media. And these stories in the EET itself brought. The EET has brought penalties not for trying to avoid paying taxes, but for many minor administrative errors, most of the employees of those entrepreneurs. [[19.00 hours]] Thus the state began to systematically and plan to create a hostile environment and tried to make business more unpleasant. Because EET isn't a receipt system. EET is a system of permanent control of the activities of businessmen, which the businessmen themselves are to ensure and pay at the same time. EET has also become a symbol of the atmosphere, when every businessman is preventively viewed as a suspect. From our point of view, it is a disproportionate intervention in the freedom of business, on the contrary, the market is distorting this system, because the costs and energy to secure the EET are completely different for a small businessman and completely different for a network of hypermarkets or, for example, hobby markets. Today, especially small entrepreneurs are fighting for their bare existence, and today the role and importance of small businessmen and entrepreneurs is shown in full nudity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2020-05-05-ps2017-045-03-004-372.u8	Well, Mr. Ambassador, I'm gonna have to interrupt you. We have 19 hours. You'll have plenty of space the next day. I'm interrupting the Chamber of Deputies meeting. I'll see you tomorrow at 9:00. Have a lovely evening.
