ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u102841	Dear.../The speaker has been disfellowshipped... by the economy. This is a difficult question for several billion kunas. Why is the current offered price of wheat the lowest in the environment? It offers farmers only 2.20 kuna for kilograms of wheat of top quality, many and lower, with deductions and costs of manipulation it will be many and below 2 kuna. At the same time, a kilo of wheat in Slovenia is paid 3 kuna and a little less than that in Hungary. The ransom price given the conditions and price on the exchanges in Croatia is surprisingly low, the lowest in Europe and the world, we do not know what the reason is. The buyers will earn 5 to 10 times more until the producers have no profits that will reflect on the new crop, but also the home budgets of our farmers. Many of them were credited to obtain artificial storage fertilisers, some other wheat savings could not be done at all because of the lack of financial resources, and therefore the yields in the fields are lower by 15 to 20% compared to last year, but the wheat is still high and healthy. I remind you that our farmers, before sowing themselves, have suffered the collection of repromaterials, fertilisers and fuels, and for up to 400% openly asked the minister what to do, go to the plant or keep the money and not be in debt. The Minister gave them courage and shine. Today, the minister courageously defends the buyer's position and argues that in Croatia the price of wheat determines the market, which market and what does that mean in Croatia at all? In Croatia, the current price of wheat determines the cartel, the buyers joined in the cartel, the gentlemen sat down at the table and agreed on the ransom price of wheat, the agreed ransom price of wheat is not the result of the movement on the markets, it is not the result of the offer and demand because then it would not be the lowest right in Croatia. The price offered to our farmers is not based on real cost calculations of production itself, which should only be correct. The question arises why countries in the environment at any time have available calculations of the cost of production, and Croatia does not. In my opinion, it should be the only job to be done by the Ministry of Agriculture. If we had publicly available and officially published cost of production modelled by the modern developed EU member states then we would not have lost the whole livestock sector, the price of milk would not be determined by the buying-in party, the owner of a foreign company, the price of meat would not be determined by the buyer or by the buyer, but by the actual market, the price of wheat would not be agreed by the cartels with the full support of the Ministry of Agriculture but rather by the demand, and the work of the farmer would cease to be certified to the limit of the slave system and let us not forget the fact that the price offered to our farmers is agreed between those who very favourablely received silos for the storage of the wheat and thus kidnapped the village from the only means that farmers could influence the moment they sell their crops. Today, warlords are being blackmailed, buyers do not want to receive wheat storage unless they have the approval of the warlord to store the wheat and sell to the owner of the silo. No one reacted from the ministry to this phenomenon, but they announced the export of wheat from the ministry, I am sure that our citizens are clear tomorrow following the import of semi-certain and finished bread, pasta, pasta and similar, and at which prices, we will soon feel it on our own skin and our own wallets, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u102952	On behalf of the HDZ club, the respected representative Goran Ivanovic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u102953	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Before I speak in this free speech of what was her intention, I must say one thing that I consider to be very important. We've heard from Mr. Pavlicek that HS is a place that has its own dignity and should be dressed and behaved accordingly. And too often words are spoken here that are not suitable for this high home, so colleague Ahmetovic here called the man a criminal without even knowing anything about it, so I would ask her what a criminal situation in Croatia would be and that energy situation if we hadn't built a LNG terminal on Krka? Therefore, do not make it easy to say the words, Croatia is a state that has its own institutions and I think they are doing their job and they have proved it today, and about who is guilty and what the same institutions will naturally say their own words. Today we will talk all day about agriculture and I think agriculture is one of the most important topics for Croatia, Croatia is indeed a agricultural country and the theme of all the topics that are withdrawn here when it comes to agriculture is of course the added value and price of the products that we can produce. Would a small good price, in order for our producers to be competitive, in order to be able to make income we have to work on two things, these are the capacities in which our producers will be able to store their goods and wait for a better price and other of course they must join together, without association there is no agriculture. I'm saddened when here's often talking about a relic of the past that cooperatives are something that's a stigma for farmers, that's not true. The European average of association is 34.5%, and the Croatian average is 0.5%, therefore we are significantly lagging behind. And I'm about to spend these two and a half minutes talking about a project going on in the area of the city of Osijek, Osijek-Baranja County, which is building a regional fruit and vegetable distribution centre at 3,000 tonnes in the first stage and another 1,500 thousand homes in the second phase. It doesn't even matter the value of the facility itself, it's somewhere around 108 million kuna, here I think somewhere in early September the first manufacturers will be able to start stockpiling their goods, so it's not just about storage it's about cooling, about packing, about drying, about everything that can keep the product protected to the better price that we all want so much. I put focus on what the county recognized, of course, and the Ministry of Agriculture which is a partner in this project along with the city of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County, which is to create an association of small producers who are interested in their fruits and vegetables stored in one such space. For the time being, this business is going very well, small producers have shown great interest and, of course, that the county through the establishment of its institution does not want to achieve income but on the contrary, wants to work on this association, of course certain costs shown in production must be paid, but it is intended to show that agriculture in Croatia can go forward only under these conditions to create sufficient capacities that small producers have to protect precisely to what the distinguished representative Vukovac was talking about, so to speak of. The market and that we in Croatia may have the lowest price of wheat, it is not, it is not good, and that is the reason and the consequences of exactly what I am talking about, I think this is the right way, I think that this is the path that recognizes both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of course and regional and regional self-government which are also the bearers of these investments, and I think that this is, along with everything that awaits us as a challenge of time in the global order, perhaps one of the steps that we should take to tomorrow, Croatian agriculture is what should be, rich Croatian village and rich Croatian people who want to deal with food production, food is indeed a strategic product, thank you very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u103043	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u103044	Dear MPs and MPs, yesterday with great disgust, not to say with disgust I listened to every comment and every replica by HDZ concerning the new city authorities on the subject of the Srebrenica hospital. Yesterday I didn't purposely want to get involved in their network and talk about this topic because yesterday the topic was the trust of the Minister of Health, William Beros, not the City of Zagreb. So I'll tell you what's going on today. I will talk about Srebrenica because it is not only the interest of the City of Zagreb but also of the vital and national interest if we really do care about the well-being and rights of every sick child. So the Srebrnjak hospital is our largest and scientific but also health project, which the EU has approved 60m euros for because it appreciates excellence, but of course it is a corrupt thing for the state, which is not worth the excellence of the former city government, it is absolutely nothing, although it is only a distraction. However, this model of the former corrupt city government, and still similar at the state level, unfortunately continues to be directed by a new one, but not by their guilt. So I want to help the new city government because I really believe that unlike HDZ, they are not corrupt and that they really have the best intentions, but perhaps some circumstances and some facts are not aware. Silver Man's hospital is already 3 years old. a solution which recognises the medical status of the clinic by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Science, and even the EU, has recognised the status of the clinic, but the hospital of Srebrenica is not constitutionally and in its internal acts in this way arranged. She has excellence, she has quality, she already has a clinic, but today there are no institutions, today there are no auditors, today there are no heads of her departments such as some other clinics, Klaicev, infectious, Psychology clinic and others. Why am I saying that and why is that? So because, according to the current statute of director, there is no condition for the director to be appointed for that function and only one person who has the teaching and scientific knowledge, that is the key, that is the key that can be solved by the new city power at this moment, and that is all that needs to be pointed out to them and called on them to do so. According to the current statute for the director of the hospital, Srebrenica can literally report, as I know, a professor of art culture. If that changed, if the internal acts were changed, all the current competitions that the same people from Rebra, from the academic community, could be annulled, all those who are undermining the project, and are currently in front of the bankruptcy itself. The fact is, the HDZs are 2 years old. Obstructed this project because they wanted to get their hands on fertile property, favour private interests, and the academic community has shown how jealous she is, how greedy she is, as much as she wants to get to not only this main project, the Silver hospital has five others besides this main approved EU hospital and is therefore more advanced than the notorious hospital pediatricians, but those who do not have their own excellence want to get their hands on others, and there is a key to the current critical stage in front of the bankruptcy of the hospital Srebrnjak, and this should be put to an end, this should be put to the end. The same ones who have nothing to offer and do not know how to fight for Croatian interests, for the interests of Croatian man, argue that the project is unsustainable, which is not true if there are physicists and cost-benefit studies of many days ago, claim that people are incompetent, so people like dr. Blonde had to quit because these interesting structures were humiliated in their work. So, the new statute, new public tenders, don't choose people who come from interesting circles as academic communities, what with the ribs that fight for their interests there, and contrary to the general and public and the project Srebrnjak can still be saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u103363	Thank you. We will now stop by the debate on this point because 1 hour has passed and this one, we will go to the presentation on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives and the first one on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns will speak to the respected representative Marijan Pavliček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u103364	Dear Vice President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. Some MPs will very likely attack me after this free speech, characterize me that I have been beaten, that time has run over, that I am a typical example of the Croatian right, but some things a man should say loud and clear. The old folk proverb says the suit makes a man. Many will agree with this, some do not, but the fact is that certain protocols, certain events and certain institutions require appropriate dress, so it is not appropriate to go to someone's wedding in short pants, it is not appropriate to give up in a church in a shirt without sleeves, and it is also not appropriate for us to appear in this assembly certainly dressed. In fact, this building is almost three hundred years old. It has been in this building since 1737 that the highest legislative acts of our country are being adopted, either as independent or as part of the former Austrian-Hungarian, Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the newer Yugoslavia, but the highest legislative acts have been adopted in this place since 1737. Here are numerous historical figures held by historical speeches, Ante Starčević, Ivan Kukuljevic Sakcinski, Josip Juraj Strossmayer, Ivan Mažuranić, Stjepan Radić, Franjo Tudjman and a number of others. However, recently, certain parliamentary deputies have not had respect for the institution in which they are located, at least as far as the dress is concerned. Namely, just behind this pay phone come individual assembly representatives in the folded sleeves as if they were going, as we say in Slavonia, on a pig's car. Some MPs in sleeveless shirts. Some MPs or MPs in beginners, shoes like they're going to some training. The other day, a colleague of Bencic's behind this pay phone was in sunglasses, like she was on the beach. Is this then appropriate to the institution where we are? So look at the staff of the Parliament. Look at the Assembly Guard. Look at the waiters, look at the maids. They're all dressed, as they say, according to the PS, and they have three times the salary of our parliamentary representatives. But they, unlike some, respect the institution they're in, and I think it's high time, Vice President HS, for the HS presidency to bring the dress code to HS. We have to respect the institution we're in. And we must try to restore the reputation of this institution. We don't personally object to any style of dress, but you know where it's appropriate and where it isn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u103487	On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative Stephen Nikola Bartulic will now speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u103488	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, last night on, in this debate on Minister Beros, I touched the question of sustainability of financing our health care according to the current model. I think it should be clear to everyone that health care is not free, nor 30 billion kunas are not enough, debts are created, therefore the question is whether the current governance model protects the interests of those who finance it. Besides, over a thousand private health care institutions, waiting lines are still very long, the service is slow and people with the right to rebel, so they pay if they can 2 or 3 times for basic services because they can't come to the turn. However, he would ask a question today, a principle question, to whom does Croatia's membership in the EU actually serve, why do I ask that? Tomorrow is a debate on the new Law on Science and Higher Education and would refer to the article. 79, which speaks of the obligations, rights and obligations of the students. So it's seen as something that has to be free, but the ministry's budget is over 17 billion kunas, not zero kunas, but 17 billion kunas. And I think we need to ask ourselves how that money is spent. First, the study, various studies, therefore, is not for each study the same situation, but, for example, medicine, foreign students pay about 10,000 euros in tuition for a year of medical studies, which means studying medicine costs just over 400,000 kuna. Our regular students who attend medical schools pay nothing, and at the end of the study they have no obligation to the state that made it possible, moreover if they decide to leave Croatia because the system does not allow them to advance, we know what tenders for various specializations look like. If you are not connected to the ruling structures you can be the best again you will be hard to pass if these students young, young doctors, or dentists decide to go abroad their future employers have no obligation to Croatia, in other words they get ready people, excellent people, perhaps among our society the best people and we send them to the world. I think it's an unsustainable condition. So another question arises, does this model serve the interests of our people, our taxpayers who pay for all this? Because I understand that there's a rule of mobility and freedom of movement and no one can stop young people from going abroad looking for happiness because it's hard to achieve here unfortunately, but what about bills, what about costs? Headhunter from Ireland from other countries, Germany and other rich countries come to Croatia actively looking for new workers. Therefore, we already recognize that the country with excellent people, with talented individuals that the state has trained them in fact without having obligations to Croatia and then free to go to the world. This is best seen in medicine where Minister Beros admitted that there is a huge lack of doctors and the current model certainly does not motivate them to stay, it is also worth the same to nurses. So we can't expect that in this environment where there are better conditions for everyone to stay here if something urgent doesn't change. So the Homeland Movement will propose more amendments to this law that we will discuss tomorrow. I think we should think about a new form of state scholarship type for good students, regular students who meet the obligation, but they themselves know how much that education costs and is worth because they don't know. If we don't change that way of working, mentality will cost us dearly, we'll be out of professional staff, and we'll be even more vulnerable than we are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u103591	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Mosta will speak to the esteemed representative Marija Selak Rasdic. She's gone, she's losing her right to speak, and then on behalf of the SDP MPs' club, she's going to speak to a respected representative, Mirela Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u103592	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of HS. How do you get arrested? Be the first minister in the government of Andrej Plenkovic, and that goal will be very easy to achieve. The radars of Andrej Plenkovic were obviously not well adjusted this time, as the ministers simply fell one after the other. And that just proves the criminal nature of Plenkovic's agenda, although he's trying to move away, even though he said he's there, that he's actually making HDZ a better party and no, he's not going to be sewn up by what happened to his predecessor, Evey Sanader. I dare say that corruption under Andrej Plenkovic has outgrown corruption from the time of Eve Sanader and thus the student has outgrown his teacher. What is happening today, the arrest of Tomislav Tolusic, it is an embarrassment to Andrej Plenkovic. It seems that man simply is unable to choose an honest minister, and perhaps he has no intention and it is wrong to say in public that Tolusic is not the choice of Andrej Plenkovic, but he was inherited from Karamark, so there is a demand for the space actually atonement of Plenkovic for this arrest. You know why? And to whom did Plenkovic replace Tolusic? Gabriel the Grief. She's a great minister. Arrested before Tomislav Tolusic. Plenkovic thus simply shows these indications, evidence, permanent arrests by all his ministers, how many left, three? Three. Mastermind protection of corruption in Croatia. He just promotes such ministers. He places them in such places and thus shows citizens, sends a message that he can do what he wants. For Tolusic, we Parliamentarians have warned for years. It was accompanied by affairs, journalists discovered all the dishonest activities, but had to work on the European Prosecutor's Office to react. So much for the Croatian judiciary, the Croatian DORH. The HDZ project of Slavonia is transformed into a bargaining project in the party borania and the merited party veterans. Prime Minister Plenkovic boasts about how the Slavonia project has been revitalised by Slavonia, so great results are achieved, but this money, European money and money of Croatian citizens are being built by barbecues and wineries, so Croatian citizens are paying the hobs of the spent ministers who were the choice of Andrej Plenkovic, being stolen from the eye so that individuals and HDZ elites can fertilize money and unfortunately it is incorrect to try to reciprocate this theft that it is stealing eu money, and no, it is stealing Croatian citizens' money, and if you want first from the Croatian budget, because it is this robbery of Croatian citizens that has been committed from the Croatian state budget, and then it is refunding from eu funds, so if something is wrong, then that money must be returned, and where it comes from, from Croatian citizens's pockets. Croatian citizens, I repeat, are paying for HDZ ministers' input hobbies and the fact is that because such a criminal pulled out 2.5 million kuna means that someone who is honest, someone who really deserves that incentive, that incentive has not been received, and here is no longer the question to whom the most suits or doesn't suit the elections. The elections of my people at this point have become a minimum of the civilization's concept of this society. This kind of stealing can no longer be justified. Every time HDZ is in the second term they stop stealing, they steal shovels to make up for themselves and their pillows. HDZ is a party to criminal intentions and each of their actions has a devastating effect on Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u103593	The Honorable representative of the Hood has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u103594	counterpart Ahmetovic had criminal statements to be responded to. First of all, I'm not defending anyone, who's guilty, who hasn't decided the institution, but you've told someone here that he's a criminal, and no one's found it yet, the man's probably and possibly incarcerated, I haven't followed, and if we go along with the SDP logic, then who's your president, Peja Grbin, if it's proved to him that something was illegal for humanitarian purposes, pays what they're charging him for, then it'll be fine as your president with his fee as he took, and to which he had no right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u103595	Okay, thank you, this wasn't exactly a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I have to give a warning. Now let's move on, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, the respected representative Natalija Martincevic will speak, she is gone, so she loses her right to speak, and then on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU and independent representatives will speak to the respected representative Ermina Lekaj Prleskaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u103738	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. In recent weeks, I have been asked by a number of craftsmen and small entrepreneurs who have been struggling with the workloaded by a number of purchases. Although the government has taken measures to mitigate the consequences of the gatherings both for citizens and for entrepreneurship, it is obviously not enough, but our craftsmen and entrepreneurs face the uncertainty of future business. The collection of electricity and fuel energy sources as well as the collection of raw materials prices shall be irrevocably poured into the final prices of final products and services by 20 to 30 %. The survey has shown that over the past period, as many as 9 out of 10 craftsmen have been forced to raise the price of their services, also the prices of food that account for a quarter of the consumer baskets have accelerated growth to over 12% year-on-year and have contributed almost 35% to the annual growth rate of consumer prices in April. Unfortunately, the comparative record of certain products such as oil and fat showed that after the government's decision to reduce VAT from 13% to 15%, 5% did not come up with an expected reduction, in fact there is virtually no product that is cheap. On the other hand, entrepreneurs point out that the collection of electricity and other energy products will have a long-term impact on the increase in production costs or on the increase in product prices from 3% to 7%. Although state aid has somewhat amortised financial disturbances in the market, all this is not expensive and will not be enough. Entrepreneurs and craftsmen have been forced to increase directly the price of their products and services due to a number of factors which cannot directly affect the price of their products and services which inevitably introduces us into the spiral of inflation of the collection, and ultimately to the instability of business, and also to shut down certain companies that will not be able to survive these financial shocks further. In fact, only the price of electricity has increased multiple times, which literally puts craftsmen in an invisible position because even multiple purchases of the final product, for example, hot drinks and bakery products will not be able to cancel existing costs. It may also be time to take a more serious approach to finding a mechanism that would help our craftsmen overcome these challenging and unstable times. One option is to definitely freeze the price of electricity at a certain time limit, as is done with the fuel price. We must also not leave out examples of our neighbouring countries as examples of Slovenia where entrepreneurs have a lower price, electricity prices because it is entrepreneurs and craftsmen who create added value, those who produce, those who hire, and ultimately those who fill the state budget. The space is narrowed down right now, but we believe that there are still enough opportunities to create mechanisms of assistance and support for craftsmen and small entrepreneurs to prevent the worst scenario, which is closing crafts and losing jobs, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117204	Final proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation 2021/784 of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2022. '21. I'm sorry about the fight against the spread of terrorist content on the Internet. The promoter was the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, the House Movement Representatives' Club, the SDP Representatives' Club, the Green-Left bloc club. Mr. Secretary of State Juro Martinovic is with us. It means 1st Amendment to Art. 3. ... Legislative Committee, yes, 1st Amendment of the Legislative Committee. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117205	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117206	Thank you very much. 2. Amendment to Art. Four of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117207	2. is accepted, but in modified form. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117208	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117209	Thank you very much. In view of the reasons, we accept such an amendment in a changed form.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117210	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 3 per article. 5th of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117211	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117212	4th Amendment to Art. Nine.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117213	The government also accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117214	Acceptable means. Article 5 10th of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117215	The government also accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117216	Sustained. Article 6 11th of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117217	The government also accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117218	And that one's accepted. Thank you very much. And now we're going to the Amendments to the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, Amendment No. 1. ... No, not the Homeland Movement. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117219	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117220	All right, here you go, Mr. Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117221	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117222	Given the organisation and way of working of the Electronic Media Council, we are of the opinion that the 48-hour deadline for delivering the Council's opinion to the police is realistic and justified. In contrast to the MUP, the Council has no available contact point for processing requires 24 hours a day, seven days a week, so this is why we put it on. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117223	Mr. Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117224	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Secretary of State, by amendment, we just wanted to warn the fact that when assessing whether the material of the content provider represents some potential terrorist content should be reacted very urgently, so we proposed a 24-hour deadline for what we will finally see in the next amendment. And please have a nice vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117225	You're looking for a vote. Amendment No. 2 per article. 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117226	And this amendment is not accepted. From the above, this amendment is therefore not accepted for the reason that we are only few is art. 5th century. 4th century.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117227	The Council for Electronic Media is obliged to deliver it to the MUP, no, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117228	Thoughts, so yes, I was when I actually explained Yes, there is no reason for the MUP to delay proceedings in such situations and ask for the opinion of the other governing body when they do not assess that their opinion is of someone who should be in that segment more professional than they are. [[Intruder Radin: Aha 24 hours one and the other, well all right.]] So that's why she's left the proposed variant, so she can, and she doesn't have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117229	Mr. Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117230	Thank you very much. Of course, we accept the explanation, but we will ask that the amendment be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117231	Thank you, too, so much for the vote. We are moving to the amendments of the SDP Representatives Club only one amendment to the article. 4th century 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117232	Therefore, this amendment also does not accept the Government for the same reasons as I stated in the explanation of the previous amendment because it is the same proposal in order to make it binding for this agency, rather than where necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117233	Here you go, Mrs. Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117234	Thank you. We believe that in order to protect freedom of expression and information, including freedom and pluralism of the media, it is necessary for the MUP to assess whether the material of the content provider is terrorist content to request the prior opinion of the Council for Electronic Media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117235	You're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117236	I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117237	Okay. And now the amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club of Amendment No. Article 1 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117238	This amendment is also not accepted for the reasons set out in the previous explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117239	Here you go, Mr. Matanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117240	Thank you, Vice President. The Secretary of State, that in the same way as my colleague, means in Article 3 of this article, the word is authorised to be replaced by a word, and that is it. We think that this would introduce an additional fuse for any MIP decision on possible terrorist content on the Internet. This amendment shall ensure that, rather than only authorised to request the prior opinion of the Council for Electronic Media in its decision, the MUP is obliged to do so. We're looking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117241	It means voting. Amendment No. 2 per article. 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117242	And we don't accept this amendment. Therefore, we do not feel that it is necessary to introduce in the law the obligation of the MUP to submit a report to HS, in accordance with the positive regulations, in fact to the MUP once a year in accordance with the positive regulations, and to discuss the report on the work of the police, which will include this information in the future on the implementation of the regulation to be implemented by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117243	Mr. Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117244	Yeah, it means something to me. 8. we add chapter 6. where our amendment is that this is exactly what we think the weight of the terrorist content on the Internet deserves to be informed once a year about this meeting and we are asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117245	Thank you very much. So we're looking for a vote. We are going to the next item of the agenda Final proposal of the Food Hygiene Act and microbiological criteria for food. No, you managed to confuse me, too. ... Final proposal for a Law implementing the EU Council Regulation 2019 1111 of 25 June 2019 on the competence to recognise the enforcement of decisions on marital disputes, which is also interesting in matters related to parental responsibility and mutual and international child abductions. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's complicated, but interesting. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. Homeland movement also has amendments. Mrs. Maria Pleikosa, please. Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117295	Art. The 10th century is complemented and reads, so the Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement in the cases referred to in Article 2 of this Article... shall appoint the child of a special guardian from the Centre for Special Care without delay and within the shortest period of time possible, up to 30 days. The amendment is not accepted. The procedure for the appointment of a special custodian from the centre for child care in parental care procedures and other procedures for the protection of the child has been governed by national legislation. It is not necessary to introduce additional time limits for the handling of competent authorities in the procedure of the appointment of a special custodian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117296	Did you catch this pace? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117297	I'd just like to explain that here's this item as much as it is and national everything still doesn't prescribe a time limit for the guardian to be appointed, so we just wanted it to be possible for him to get into the law. Of course we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117298	Okay. Amendment No. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117299	The amendment is not accepted. Where a child is placed in a foster family or an institution of social care in another Member State in accordance with Council Regulation 2010/1111 in the process of monitoring and providing assistance to the foster family and child, the competent social services of the country in which the child is located shall be included in accordance with the rules of the State and child care during his stay in that State. It is necessary, on a regular basis, to provide a report on a child to assess the need for a further stay in another Member State for the competent social care office. Since, in the event of a need for all safeguards and temporary measures in order to protect the welfare and interest of the child, the competent authorities of the country in which the child is located and there is continued cooperation and, where appropriate, the exchange of information between the two countries throughout the whole stay of the child in another country, it is sufficient to regularly obtain an annual report on the child for the purpose of assessing the need for a further stay of the child in another country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117300	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117301	Excuse me, thank you for your answer. The only thing that we wanted to change with this amendment was simply a more frequent reporting obligation so that, of course, some problems related to the child and its well-being could be more quality and faster to report or notice. Thank you very much, and we will ask for a vote of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117302	You're asking for a vote, yes. Thank you very much, Mrs.pleikosa. We now move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Cultural Councils and the financing of public needs in culture. The amendments were submitted by MP Zlatko Hasanbegovic, the Green-left bloc representative club and representative Katarina Peovic. With us is State Secretary Mr. Ivica Poljičak and now we move on to amendments, first Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, or Club of Representatives writes both things,... It says both... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There's no one from the Homeland Movement anyway, so there's no Mr. Hasanbegovic, then, but you're being obvious. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117601	The amendment is not accepted. According to the Law on State Property Management, public tender and direct contract can be made available to real estate and, accordingly, this law regulates the availability of real estate in the same way, and the award criteria are prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or by a general act of the representative body of the unit of local or regional self-government. Therefore, this law must comply with the law governing the management of state property.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117602	There's no one here, it says the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, too. There's no one here and he's going to vote. Green-left bloc representatives' club, Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117603	It's unacceptable. The proposed law fully regulates the entire area of financing public needs in culture and the management of public institutions in culture with a view to improving and simplifying the way they are financed and managed. It is not necessary to supplement the name of the law, given that it is an art. 1. The proposed law shall be governed by the subject matter and the scope of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117604	Thank you very much. Mr. Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117605	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, we still think that the name of the law should be changed and that it should read the Law on Cultural Councils, the financing of public needs in culture and the management of public institutions in culture, because the very name of the law does not state the management of public institutions in culture and people it is all people who are in culture... of course you believe that it will become normal for people, but people are looking for provisions on how to manage what is the former law on the management of public institutions in culture. We believe that the area of governance of institutions in culture is extremely important and that it is necessary in the name of the law to clearly point out that topic. Of course we're looking and voting on...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117606	Thank you very much. Voting well. Amendment No. 2 per article. 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117607	It's accepted, we're glad to see that one truly random mistake, the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117608	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117609	General applause, both MPs and MPs.../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117610	...it's nomotechnically that's exactly what tipfeller is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117611	Because there's only two of you with me three and I'll clap. Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117612	The amendment is not accepted. Art. 19th century 4th, it is prescribed that a member of the Council shall make the term of office available if the term of office of the minister responsible for the culture which has taken the decision to appoint him ceases. However, by making the mandate available, it is not a statement requiring a member of the council to get rid of it, so that it remains in office. That provision gives the possibility for the new Culture Minister to consider professionalism and expertise in the work of members of the Cultural Council and to eventually resolve it if there has been a failure in its work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117613	Thank you very much. Mr. Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117614	Thank you, Vice President. I'm still telling you, I'm asking for that item 4 to be deleted. We think that the cultural councils of the new law become too attached to the mandate of the minister or minister, which in many ways weakens their independent position, is one of the points of recorded politicisation in the decision-making professions in culture which we find unacceptable and we propose to delete Article 4. of this article and ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117615	Amendment No. 4 per article. 37.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117616	He doesn't accept. Articles submitted. The main tasks of the Governing Council shall be governed by Article 37(2), however, the instrument of establishment and the statute may regulate the performance of other tasks.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117617	Mr. Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117618	We were pleased, I thank the Vice President, that between the two readings, it was still going to define what all the administrative councils were doing, but we did add it, and I'm going to read it anyway, and there's going to be time. The Administrative Council shall adopt a programme of work and development of the institution in culture on a proposal from the Director, adopt a financial plan and annual accounting, monitor the implementation of the programme and its financial and personnel implementation, consider and adopt programme and financial reports from the Director, give the founder and director proposals and opinions, adopt the statutes with the prior consent of the Founder, adopt other general institutions in culture in accordance with the statutes, and carry out other tasks in accordance with certain laws, by means of an act establishing and statute. The word "executive" is replaced by "representative". Here's some more time to explain. We really believe that it is necessary to prescribe even more concretely the powers and tasks of the boards of directors in order to avoid any misunderstandings of insufficiently clear intelligence. A good relationship between director and board of directors contributes to better governance of cultural institutions. The administrative boards accompanying the work of the director must not only be regarded as strict supervision, but also as assistance to the director in his work and joint efforts to advance and develop the institution itself. We also believe that it is not good for both directors and boards to choose the executive bodies of the founders, so local self-government units are appointed by mayors or mayors. When only one person chooses both bodies of institution management in culture, we open the door to a high policy of governance, we lose the involvement of a wider community, the transparency of governance, and we ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117619	Although the secretary of state is whispering to us that it's entering the fifth amendment now, but you listen and see. Amendment number five.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117620	Amendment number five, here's what we're going to do, definitely. In fact, there are two amendments within one to Article 40, which was the same in the previous case but we understood that it was not accepted in the previous one, so it is not accepted in relation to Article 40 because in the process of appointing the director of the institution in culture the proposal of the Governing Council greatly reduces the powers of the minister to appoint an expert especially outside the institution, and for this reason, giving an opinion is far more acceptable. And given that the Administrative Council must have an expert assessment and an opinion on all candidates and in paragraph two is not accepted because in the procedure of appointing the Director of the Institute in Culture a proposal from the Governing Council to a large extent, I now apologize to her here because they are actually in paragraph 3. there is also no acceptance of the proposal of the Governing Council. The complete amendment, here is only an additional explanation of the item per item but in fact the entire amendment is not accepted with that first explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117621	Mr. Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117622	Thank you, Vice President. Did I understand that item three is accepted?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117623	It's unacceptable, but I don't have to go to the item now. Therefore, the entire amendment is not accepted in all items.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117624	In all the items? Okay. Then I understood. But I need to see how much I can do. It's pretty big. So our proposal is in the first sentence: "in the previous opinion" they change the words "on the proposal". Article 2 is amended and reads: "If the Republic of Croatia is co-founder of the institution in culture, the Director shall appoint and resolve the minister responsible for culture on the proposal of the Governing Council if it is established and with the opinion of the co-founders previously obtained, and in accordance with the founding act. In paragraph 3, the preceding opinion shall be amended in the words of the proposal and the words of the Director shall be added after the words of the appointment of the Director, as well as the decisions of the Director. Now I'm going to get in the way of an explanation because I'm not going to make it all. We believe that it has been shown that the provisions so far that the administrative councils are asking questions and conducting a tender for the selection of directors have been well brought to life in practice and that if the institution were to conduct a tender, what is the proposal for this law could easily lead to the situation that the existing director is conducting the tender itself. So it becomes questionable how, for example, an interview with candidates who have proved to be a very good way of verifying and getting to know candidates and their programme and how a decision will be taken without any apparent conflict of interest. We also believe that the law should determine how a tender is to be opened and conducted in institutions where no administrative council is established. We also believe that it is necessary to strengthen the role of the Governing Council in carrying out the competitions for the Director in a way that makes proposals, not opinions. The proposals have more responsibility and intelligence than the opinion itself. Here we are looking for a certainly vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117625	Amendment at the end of number six.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117626	... It is prescribed that the Councils established under the Law on Cultural Councils continue to work until the end of the term of office, i.e. the resolution. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] If the members of the cultural councils were resolved by means of the proposed law, this would prevent the regular functioning and performance of the prescribed tasks of the councils, as well as the implementation of the process of financing public needs in culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117627	Mr. Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117628	Thank you, Vice President. Thus, Articles 48,49, 50, 51, 52, 53 are deleted, becoming Articles 47, 48, 49, 50, 51 and 52. This final proposal amends the items which were not provided for in the draft before the public consultation. More specifically, the cultural councils elected under the old Law on Cultural Councils and after the adoption of the new law remain in office. Since the ministry points out that the main reason for the adoption of a new law of change includes cultural councils and changes to their names is that the current members of the council do not really have any basis for staying in the mandates and therefore we propose to delete Article 47 and we are asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117629	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the amendments to the MPs of Katarina Peovic. Amendment number 1 to Article 19
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117630	It's unacceptable. The Cultural Council is a professional advisory body established for certain areas of cultural and artistic creation, and accordingly, the minister responsible for culture has the discretion to choose his advisory body whose action is consistent with the duration of the minister's term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117631	Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117632	Thank you. Here we have lived in the belief that cultural councils are made up of experts and that the professional public should sit there, but in the debate with the minister in the first reading of this law we have heard that it is a collective body that meets once a month and decides on something that knows what, that is, the relic of another time, the quote is finished. What our intensity was here means somewhere in line with what you wanted to explain is that the members of the cultural council have been chosen by the discretionary right of the minister or minister so as to avoid conflict of interest and their connection that those with the departure of the minister or minister are withdrawn, so we have suggested that if they want to avoid any conflict of interest to propose the appointment of members of the council for two years, and this will be linked to the next amendment in which we de facto try to elaborate that it means professional practice, the practice of those who come there by their expertise, and that they should not be associated with politics especially in the field of culture, is not an economy, meaning in the field of culture we have people who are appointed there because of some of their competences, and they should be chosen by those competences, and then also stay next to that council, whether the minister has changed the minister or minister. I'll ask to vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117633	You're looking for a vote. Amendment No. 2 also in Art. 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117634	It's unacceptable. Art. 19th century 4th, it is prescribed that a member of the Council shall make the term of office available if the term of office of the minister responsible for the culture which has taken the decision to appoint him ceases. However, making the mandate available is not a statement requiring a member of the council to resolve it so that it remains in office. That provision gives the possibility for the new Culture Minister to consider professionalism and expertise in the work of members of the Cultural Council and to eventually resolve it if there has been a failure in its work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117635	Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117636	So that here I can only repeat that the minister's function here is also misunderstood because the minister is not the one who should and who can have the exclusive right to assess the expertise and keep an eye on cultural council members in each segment. So which minister would at all be professionally able to assess their qualifications in all possible fields and segments of culture than the management staff, and in that sense, this commitment to the political mandate is not too much of an exaggeration. I will only mention here that these amendments that I have handed over one drop in the sea, not that there were 451 comments in the consultation, and it was really hard to go through this whole law and make all the changes that would be needed here, but in any case what our criticism is fundamental that the Law on Public Institutions Management in Culture at all might not have entered into this megazacon that actually brought together three very important laws, so it would be wise to say that the law was abandoned because, as fellow Matula said and did not have it in the title, so somewhere it suggests that it was something that coincided with the existing bill later. So here's a small fence that we're going to suggest the attitude of RF is some kind of drop in the sea of what should be done here, but here we've seen the most problematic parts. I'll ask for an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117637	Thank you, vote means vote. And Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117638	It's unacceptable. Art. Article 8 of the proposed law already provides that the provisions of the laws governing the establishment, assignment and work of units of local and regional and regional self-government apply to the councils of units of local and regional self-government, as well as to the provisions of the laws governing their establishment, tasks and work, and apply accordingly to the provisions of Article 8 of the proposed law. 17th, 18th and 19th of that provision to the head of the 8th Law. Thus, adding new provisions would be a duplication of the content of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117639	Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117640	Okay. It could be my fault. What I read from the law here is that I do not have before me because unlike the national level where the way the council was set up at the level of units of local and regional (regional) self-government was clearly defined, but I will take your word that it was prescribed by the articles as you said 17. to... And on 9th 19th, I'm withdrawing the amendment. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u117641	You're withdrawing the amendment means, okay. Thank you very much. We don't have any more amendments. I'm closing today's session and we'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 votes. Thank you very much. Mr. Matula, Mrs. Peović, goodbye. SESSION Interrupted at 6:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118315	Honorable MPs and respected MPs good morning! I just want to let you know that after today's debate on the points we've been planning to make a statement on the amendments submitted to the draft laws discussed this week, so you're planning your time. Now we'll move on to today's agenda. First is - Proposed animal health law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 299. The proposal is proposed by the Government pursuant to Article 85 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Agriculture, and I would now like to invite the respected State Secretary, Šim Mršić, to present the above-mentioned draft law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118316	Thank you, well-respected president, respected parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. There is an animal health bill before you. The area of animal health is currently regulated by the Veterinary Act and the sublaws adopted under the Veterinary Act. This proposal for a law provides for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 on transferable animal diseases which entered into force on 21 April 2021, together with a series of secondary delegated and implementing Regulations. The Regulation in question is part of the new EU legislative package, and gives a single animal health legislative framework replacing all current European legislation in the area of animal health and abolishing almost 400 legal acts, all with a view to direct uniform application of legislation in all Member States. The animal health area shall include the following: eradication and control of animal diseases, registration, labelling and traceability of animals and products of animal origin, transport to animals and products of animal origin within the EU between EU Member States and third countries, and non-commercial movements of pets. This proposal for a law will put all national legislation related to animal health outside the scope of certain provisions of the Veterinary Act and a total of 59 regulations. This proposal lays down the competent authorities and their obligations in the field of animal health, including the handling and determination of measures to prevent, control, control, eradication of disease monitoring, registration, labelling of traceability of animals and products of animal origin, the transport of animals and products of animal origin within the EU between EU Member States and third countries, non-commercial movements of pets, the obligation of laboratories in the field of animal health, pet and veterinarian entities, and infringement provisions in all areas covered by Regulation 2016/429. This bill creates assumptions for the professional and more effective implementation of the obligations of the Republic of Croatia in the field of animal health in line with the objectives of the new EU legislative framework. Here's to starting with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118317	Then let's go to the replicas. First of all, there's a colleague, Brcic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118318	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here's the more we meet especially in local community units that we have more and more unscrupulous, so-called. Animal strays who eventually fall under the care of local units themselves so that they can be cared for, because they are clearly a great potential danger of transmission of infectious diseases. And since it's about animals of unknown owners, so they're not chipped mostly the cost of taking care of local units, so for example, taking care of one dog by contract with institutions dealing with these activities is about 4000 kuna, so that's one big burden for local units, so I don't know in that context what can be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118319	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118320	Thank you, well-respected Parliamentarian Brčić, of course, that the Ministry of Agriculture is working on certain shifts in this area, and introduces the mandatory chipping of pets. It is also an obligation for all holders of domestic animals to be properly marked. What is new is that animal shelters, whether they are domestic animals or pets, will be possible to finance from the rural development programme, so we will also allow units of local, regional self-government to take care of these abandoned animals as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118321	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118322	Thank you very much. Animal protection is essentially burdens that fall on unencumbered animals local self-government are pets. However, we had a problem that appeared both in Sinj and in Neretva and in other areas they were unsettled... i.e. those who had owners, received incentives, lived under no conditions, drank sewers, and we have such cattle that simply local self-government could not take over by this law or the regional self-government was obliged to have one shelter in the whole area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We took a step after what happened in Sinj with those cows that even received incentives. And of course I'm interested in how far it's come with the withdrawal of those funds, for example, if the Split-Dalmatia County has come forward. We, units of local self-government, are ready to finance for hooves, cows and other abandoned animals, are ready to co-finance. But it's impossible for one unit of local self-government itself to finance such shelters If you have any information about Split-Dalmatia County. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118323	Thank you very much. Here you go. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118324	Thank you very much. Parliamentary representative Bulj, we have intensive communication with both the Split-Dalmatia County and other counties related to the construction of these shelters, however, this open tender has not yet been opened so that they have not had the opportunity to withdraw or report to these shelters.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118325	There's a fellow Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118326	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Mršić, here's when we look at Regulation 2016/429 I can't help but ask you. What do you think of Articles 126 to 161? Chapters 3 to 6 in Chapter 1, because it's obvious they're unscheduled. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Chapter 3 in Section 6. In fact, I wanted to ask you, we are incorporating a huge amount of European legislative practice, whether the ministry will make an effort at least with some kind of manual that it will make of course on its own cost to people to whom this law applies is still approaching a little matter. Only e-consultation has given us more than 703 provisions of this law, direct us to those provisions. The law is extremely unreadable and incomprehensible to an ordinary man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118327	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118328	Thank you, well-respected Parliamentarian Dretar. So, this bill puts the whole of the national animal health legislation so far off-limits and 59 different regulations, which will, to some extent, reduce the administrative part so that it would not agree with you because we may be going to simplify it or to reduce it, that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118329	My colleagues, Ban Vlahek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118330	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, in the context of some of our new living circumstances, we have been exposed daily to media content, and so few have managed to promote information that according to one of the more detailed explanations of the coronary virus has passed from the infected bat. Accordingly, from time to time in the media area, this issue of human health risks is reactive in all circumstances and the impact of animals on human health. My question to you is to what extent has the veterinary profession been involved in the fight against the coronary virus and in what areas? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118331	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118332	Thank you very much, dearly respected Parliamentarian. The Corona virus therefore exists much longer than we have, most of us have met it, and this can freely say the best known veterinary profession since the different strains of the virus have long been present in poultry and in other animals, so the veterinary profession is involved in the fight against the coronary virus and only this self-identification of the corona virus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118333	Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118334	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State I must repeat the question that Dretar asked me because the answer did not satisfy me because indeed, and you had it in public consultation. One lady who has 3 throats tells you that I know what category A, B, C, D, E or animal breeders tell you that the law is unreadable, that they don't know even though they want to apply it that it's simply written so legally that they can't interpret it or that they should spend days interpreting the law and reading it. I understand that some legal provisions must be simply so formulated, but there are two ways either to simplify the language of the law itself or to actually make some manual, instructions and similar to breeders in order to know how to act at what point because really reading this law if you are not a legal expert if you may even be a veterinarian, a lot of things will not be clear to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118335	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118336	Well, I have to disagree with you. The fact is that this bill and new European legislation have for the first time established clear criteria for the priority and categorization of the disease above all to these 5 groups that you said A, B, C, D and E. They are categorized by their economic importance to diseases, animal diseases. And any treatment related to these diseases is carried out on the basis of this categorization.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118337	Comrade Vlasic Iljkić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118338	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, we have a situation in which this law was adopted by an emergency procedure and public consultation was conducted in November of last year. After half a year, the law enters the parliamentary procedure, and there have obviously been some difficulties with the harmonisation of the law. My question is what is this and what do you say changes the comprehensive animal health legislative framework, and there is no need to single out a single kuna of additional budgetary resources. What is it specifically that will be changed about animal health and the obligations of our breeders, in particular, I mean cattle farmers, and so far that this is not regulated? To tell us specifically here are at least three things that are concrete, and that so far has not been regulated if the comprehensive legislative framework is changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118339	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118340	Thank you, well-respected Parliamentarian. As I had just responded to your colleague Hajdukovic, for the first time, clear criteria for the prioritization and categorisation of animal diseases have been established and a list of animal diseases that are relevant to the EU has been established. It shall also be amended in accordance with Regulation (EC) 2016/429 on transferable animal diseases, and a number of other articles shall be amended. Now, in particular, it should perhaps take a little more time than these intended minutes to enter into each article individually and to say what has changed compared to the previous legislative framework. Anyway, we are replacing the current law and 59 regulations with this Regulation and... By law and by 20 new regulations... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118341	Thank you very much. Comrade Kolarek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118342	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. Secretary of State, you said nicely that by proposing this Animal Health Act, a lot of documents are lifted. What interests me, so we all know that the greatest danger to animal health and human health is uncontrolled traffic, or floating animals that are not under surveillance, and they are in fact a danger to animal health and human health. Whether this law will be stronger, better, safer and simpler, simpler control of exactly the kind of animals that pose a danger to us, I've already said what, for animal health and human health. Here in the neighbouring country we have one problem whether it's a media high or not, that's exactly what I'm interested in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118343	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118344	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Kolarek, therefore, the law prescribes basic responsibilities for both subjects and veterinarians in respect of animal health and animal health, but also biosecurity measures, as well as control, disease control. As for therefore floating, floating cattle, it is certainly one of the problems, but the number of these floating cattle is about 1% on an annual level if we know that some 350 thousand cattle are in traffic per year, floating cattle are about 3,500-600.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118345	Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118346	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, I would refer to this question by colleagues of Kolarek because I think it is extremely important to clarify in the public why there are 60 thousand unfinished migrations, or that information refers to floating cattle that are thought to exist. According to the Veterinary Administration's data, this data is 3,850, which is why there is actually a difference in these numbers, who controls it, and whether the adoption of this law will, in particular, be those of 58, which refers to the labelling of the traceability of terrestrial animals and may, in fact, specify the exact treatment together with the computer base and the identification documents, and the moving documents may give different results.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118347	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118348	Thank you very much. Dear Parliamentarian Petir, therefore the number of 60,000 and these 3,800 differences is that 60,000 is a cumulative figure from around 2003, 2003. So far, however, the figure at the annual level varies from some, since then, from 10 thousand to 3 thousand last year, 3,800. As a result, one of the reasons why the Ministry of Agriculture launched a veterinary review of the economies, which set aside 15 million kuna this year, will be sufficient for a partial review of the economies, and we hope in the near future that we will have a complete review in order to really have a realistic picture of the situation on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118349	Comrade Saturday, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118350	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, in this proposal of the Animal Health Act, the regulation also gives some new elements necessary for uniform treatment in the fight against animal diseases in all Member States, thus establishing clear criteria for the priorisation and categorization of diseases that have been categorized as a, b, c, d, e. I am now interested in whether this newspaper will actually be in practice in the Republic or have we already had so far in practice through the competent institutions and preventions?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118351	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118352	Thank you very much. Dear Parliamentarian, therefore the veterinary profession and veterinary services in the Republic of Croatia have so far done a truly excellent job in the control of diseases and the spread of these diseases in the Republic of Croatia, which proves that we are a free country of almost all diseases, of these most economically significant diseases on animals. This way of categorization will only increase and improve this control.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118353	And the last replica, Comrade Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118354	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, we didn't understand the argument given to the Animal Friends Association about where they're asking for the microchip to be marked at the latest 60 days from the day of conception, which is why it is combined with 90 days and with that provision of rabies vaccination? I think we all know what's going on with the irresponsible pet owners that they love for a while, and when these puppies happen, we know that they share very often before the second month, and this burdens the local community and burdens the volunteers of the shelter for abandoned animals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118355	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118356	Thank you very much. Dear Parliamentarian Matula will, therefore, be with all the facilities that were to be registered, too, will have to be registered, and facilities dealing with breeding, pet breeding that are for further sale, as well as dogs and cats, and therefore their mandatory chipping. We also need to work together on the minds of our fellow citizens so that these pets are legally acceptable and cared for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118357	Thank you, Secretary of State, you can return to your post and later if you need to intervene. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yes, the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, respected colleague Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118358	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, Director. At its 69th session as a home working body, the HS Agriculture Committee discussed the proposal for a Animal Health Law with the proposed abolition of the status of the Authority for Veterinary and Food Safety as a national competent body for animal health and the transfer of this competence to the Ministry of Agriculture has said that this is not a good proposal and could also cause problems in the implementation of the activities. Art. 25. Regulation (EU) 2016/429 has been amended as follows: 17 of this act, the term veterinary visit has been used and information on the planned implementation of the frequency and time limits of veterinary checks to be prescribed by the Regulation has been requested. In addition to the provisions on the labelling and traceability of land animals, it is asked whether it will result in a reduction in the number of floating cattle in the Republic of Croatia. It is also asked whether the decision to determine units of the area and regional self-government as a region of notification, reporting on disease outbreaks will have an impact on the implementation of activities on the infected area. In harmonising the draft proposal for this act, the Ministry of Justice and Administration has expressed the view that the affairs of the Authority for Veterinary and Food Safety as the competent food health authority for the purpose of issuing inspections from the Ministry of Agriculture in the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia need to be placed in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture. The Regulation lays down that the infected area covers an area of 3 km from an infection facility and that the affected area is considered an area covering 7 km from an infection facility, so that the establishment of a unit of the area and regional self-government as a region of notification, the reporting will have no impact on the activities to be carried out in the infected areas. The checks on agricultural holdings will also be carried out in combination with other checks and in accordance with the biosecurity risk assessment. All information on animals held on farms is available in the farm register, and the veterinary checks on holdings will establish the reasons for the occurrence of floating cattle in the Republic of Croatia and plan measures to prevent their creation. Following the discussion, the Committee decided, by a majority of votes, to six votes in favour and one abstention, to propose to HS the following conclusions, the Proposal for a Law on Animal Health, observations and proposals to be presented in the debate shall be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare a final proposal for an animal health law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118359	Thank you. Now we will move on to the debate, first in line is the Club of Representatives Mosta will speak two MPs, Miletic and his colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118360	Mr. Jandrokovic, the Honorable President of HS, Mr. Bukarica, Mr. Secretary of State with associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. I'll be brief, and then our mayor Miro Bulj and fellow parliamentary representative will speak more closely. So, just a few items, the Animal Health Act we heard was left out of force all the way, so full national legislation regarding the area of eradication of animal disease control, registration, labelling, traceability of life and products of animal origin. Colarek, from the ruling, raised the issue of animal trafficking and control, so here we see that this item is also inside, products of animal origin within the EU between EU Member States and third countries and non-commercial movements of pets. What we will surely praise at the Mosta Club is somehow always glad whenever hundreds of acts or laws are abolished and replaced by something more useful and logical then we will certainly support it. So we've heard that over 400 legal acts are abolished and 59 regulations are put outside the law, so with this Animal Health Law proposal, we're sure to support that. What colleagues in the opposition of counterpart Hajdukovic, counterpart Dretar well noticed and said that the law is not quite clearly legible and that is it. And we know that the laws in the Republic of Croatia that every law should be written that every citizen understands it, about any item. So every citizen who takes a law and reads it must be clear to him, so what does that law mean and where it is headed. So here we've heard whether or not some additional material might be done where it would be made clear to people or if this is the first reading, so there's going to be more conversations on this subject. Just as I would say at the end of this part of my exposure, my colleague Bulj warned about local self-government and how the burden on local self-government was falling on animals not chipsed animals, abandoned dogs, etc., and we heard from colleagues from ruling that they said it cost 4,000 kuna per month, so 4,000 kuna on maintenance, for example. For one dog. I would certainly suggest to those who have legitimacy because they lead this country to help more asylum. Many of our asylums are in big trouble, and we who go a little through these asylums see how much these people are fighting on a daily basis and depend on the donations of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which, for example, is. In animal shelters, they carry food all because they are rarely left to care only for the citizens. And it would be good if you were actually an oasis because in many asylums people who love animals do love animals, and then it would be logical to target them with some means, thus disposing of local self-government and helping people who care about animals. So much for me for this part. Miro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118361	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118362	Secretary of State, Mrs. Karacic, I would say here what is in practice important. We often pass laws, change laws, but implementation is at a very low level. As far as animal health and animal welfare are concerned, it is still in practice, in implementation, we Assembly representatives talk daily about 4.5 laws, compliance with regulations and directives, but that is not enough, and it is conscious of both Ms. Karacic and the secretary of state. I have an example of even a number of fines from a veterinary inspection for the sake of unemployment and negligence of institutions, and when I became mayor we had a problem with cows i.e. cattle on the very edge of the city, in a village where simple cows were not abandoned because they had owners, but they were not taken care of. They literally drank water from the sewers. And of course that's what I pointed out and eventually the inspectorate and the state came to the conclusion that local self-government was to blame. However, these were not unforsaken animals, but by law it was as if we should have sheltered no county area one to 50 minimum this for 50 animals, 50 throats. We're not talking about pets here, I'm talking about cows. After what happened to the media, we had a meeting at the ministry, you were all, here's the secretary of state, Mrs. Karacic, they were ministers, and then an initiative was launched to build shelters for these problems from European funds, but these are huge problems. We have examples in Neretva, in the Neretva Valley where cows were also destroying that no one was taking care of, but probably someone was taking incentives. In this case, in Sinj, a man also receives incentives, so cows are not unforsaken. But when he was hired, at that moment they were abandoned, but when he left the hospital, they were no longer abandoned. So you don't know when you're going to react, when you don't, when local self-government is actually responsible, when regional self-government is because regional self-government is mostly piling hands. So local self-government units don't have enough financial capacity to build themselves a shelter for animals, for cattle and for these, even for pets it's huge, costs huge, huge these capacities. Here we have volunteers who help, however, to work on the asylum issue. But these are the key problems. So we prescribe the law and transfer everything by washing the pill hands to local self-government. A regional self-government which would have to have an obligation and which by law has a certain obligation to have committees that are mostly and not called together, to make such shelters for abandoned animals that are not pets, I'm talking about cows, I'm talking about horses, I'm talking about, it's just that country, there's the system that failed. That's where the legislation failed. But I would mention here once again that it is very important in practice to find solutions to how to implement these laws rather than just raise a hand for it, rewrite the regulation, boast here we have adopted regulations, we have passed directives if we have problems in practice. And when the problem comes, everyone's a pill washer. That problem came to me, for 20 years no one even mentioned it. When I mentioned him then they sent a veterinary inspection to punish the basics of me, did they not know about these veterinary inspectors? We've got this problem, and we've got inspection, inspection control, who's controlling, who's vertical, what's got the Ministry of Agriculture, which has the Veterinary Authority. So we have a number of problems, and mostly I would say that animal protection is, exclusively and only to prescribe directives and regulations to rewrite them and to raise our hand to satisfy the form, no, no, and all but transfer to local self-government, and regional and state to wash their hands also not because they are huge losses. Some local self-governments have no financial capacity to protect one animal, have no financial capacity to open for one child's kindergarten and now we'll all go to local self-government. So you need to do this at regional level where you will co-finance all units of local self-government together with the ministry and thus find solutions, and not only bring here laws and lipo bits of me here stolen in warm, keep the ancestors, and basically most local self-government in the Republic of Croatia has no financial capacity to have shelters and to finance shelters or to give concessions. The city of Sinj has a concession that is based on a public call. But in order for this problem to solve both the state level and the regional level, and this local level must implement these laws, and not only can all be transferred to local self-government units, because I repeat, most local self-government units have no financial capacity for the child one, let alone to provide the animals with some accommodation and to pay for it, and we see how much prices are done. It is therefore not a good thing to put an end to a number of laws that even have no contact with them, and this is the same issue of the regulation, but this law should be discussed. If we're ready to carry him out when we vote him out, and you believe me, we're not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118363	The second debate on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, a respected counterpart, Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118364	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say at first that I am not satisfied with what the secretary of state has told us because no one is arguing that we have to enter this into our legal regulations, it is not disputed, nor categorization of the disease, it is a disputed legal statement, it is disputed that people who keep animals will interpret it and that they will be able to know what the law says because indeed if you read the text, you will see that it is quite difficult to understand, and even to the legal profession. But I hope that by the second reading, we will do it, or at least the ministry will be obliged to issue some manual for breeders who might then be able to monitor what their obligations are. Let me look back on a few things in this law. I'll agree to a debate before me about the problem of abandoned animals. I've been told by people, a lot of, a lot of cattle are mentioned here and stuff, but people told me that Velebit is full of horses that wander, no one knows whose harm they are, they're all more, they're breeding, they're going wild, and someone for them you won't believe receives incentives because in time we decided to encourage indigenous throats, people bought and literally sent to the mountain, and then they don't just come to the question of keeping or taking care of abandoned animals, but they come to question our own, our incentives, or to whom we pay incentives and for what. But let's get back to the law. First of all, I think it's a good thing it's an article. Article 66(3) of the Law provides that all marked dogs, cats and pie bags must be entered in the register of pets, and Article 4 of the same article is to be provided for when marking the mandatory issue and the print-out of the pet register. I only hope that veterinarians will consistently implement it and thus solve the problem of microchipted animals, but without data on the owner because, for example, animal labelling is mandatory outside the infirmary area. In the event that the release from the register is not delivered immediately during the marking of the pet, the liability for the said should not be exclusively on the owner of an animal who does not know the detailed legal provisions but on an authorised veterinarian who did not do so or who routinely implements such measures and is aware of the legal obligations and the obligation to issue an animal’s print. I believe that not everyone who brings animals to chipping or needs to know or surely does not know that the print should be obtained immediately. Although. In the 66th century of the 1st century, the Animal Health Act provides that all dogs must be marked with an injectable transponder before the transfer for the purpose of change of ownership and no later than 90 days from the day of protection, I do not consider that there are obstacles to the spread of that period to be shorter as proposed by animal friends or 60 days from the day of protection. For other reasons, the aim is to mark all dogs with a microchip for animal welfare as short as possible. It is also supported by the Croatian Department of Veterinars of Small Practices who think it is optimal time for puppies, for puppies to be marked at the latest, at the latest 8 weeks of age, without endangering their well-being. I would also suggest that you be in Art. In 66. add a provision, therefore, that this applies not only to dogs but also to all cats in the breeding of pets intended for sale must also be marked with an injectable transponder before moving to change ownership. Namely, the current marking of cats with an incubable transponder is not legally mandatory, is left to the owner's will and is only carried out at the request of the owner as prescribed. 6th century 2nd century. The proposal for the law in question, proposed by the law in question, pardons, practice shows that due to the non-labelling of cats, a large number of cats leave or kills the offspring of their domestic cats, and law enforcement cannot be traced because cats are not marked by an injectable transponder. There are also a lot of cases where the cat is lost or strayed, and data on an injectable transponder would allow quick tracking of the custodian and reducing the cost of animal protection associations or JLS of all those who have strayed animals. We also believe that it is important for the law to prescribe the obligation of preventive vaccinations for puppies and kittens in breeding, but perhaps for some other species such as rabbits in breeding to protect animal health, such as those laid down in the Regulations on the breeding and entry of dogs of the Croatian Federation of Felinological Associations. Art. The 63rd proposal of the Animal Health Act also provides for the mandatory labelling of equidae in the Republic of Croatia by means of an injectable transponder, and other than hooves marked in another Member State, they would propose an amendment to the Article. The word ‘labelling’ is replaced by the word ‘exclusive’ and the word ‘exclusive’ is added before the word ‘injectible’. 114. EU Regulations 216/429 and Art. 58th Delegated Regulation of the EU 219/2035, except for the hooves marked in another country. This would avoid the application of painful alternative methods of labelling as applied by breed societies such as hot brand burning, cold stamping, tattooing and the like. It has been in Croatia since 2009. the prescribed labelling of hooves with a microchip, entered into force on 1 January 2010, but continued to allow hot brand burning although it is untrustworthy, unnecessary, obsolete and ultimately inhumane way of identifying animals and proving ownership. Also, although cattle are marked with ear tags, an exception is allowed to mark bulls intended for participation in cultural and sports events for which they are prescribed while marking ear tags at the same time marking by branding. There are no medical and scientific justifications for this exception, and it is extremely disrupting the welfare of animals. The branding occurs without the use of analgesia or anaesthesia and causes animals severe pain and suffering, not only at the time of stamping but also in the days thereafter. The burning mark is pressed on the surface of the skin for about 5 seconds, and exposes the skin to enormous heat, depending on the skills of the people performing the stamping there is a risk of uncontrolled spread of fire from hot iron to the rest of the hair, and the marked animal on the day it is stamped has an increased temperature of 4 degrees and the next 6 days an increased temperature of 2 to 4 degrees. So, except that animals suffer pain and fever for at least a week after stamping, we question the welfare of animals, animal health, and that's actually the purpose of this law. Finally, I would like to say that, clearly, this is part of the European acquis, it is clear that we should bring this into our legislation, but once again I would stress the need for the Law to be written in such a way that breeders will be able to truly know what is expected of them and what are their obligations. During the public consultation, there were many remarks, which were about to read, and I will now paraphrasise that, how can I cope with this Law that holds a pair of throats of cattle or that I have a few popcorn, how will I know what my obligations are, what I need to do with animals, what are diseases a, b, c, d, e, f or what categories, etc., etc. And indeed, especially if you're a layman, but even people who do grow, if you read the Law, you'll see it's pretty, pretty vague. In addition to some of the changes I hope will happen, which, as I have stated, I have now cited, which I would say, are the character to improve legislation, so no one can defend or defend us because this would only improve the legislative proposal, hopefully if we can't change the text of the law, at least make a commitment when adopting this law in the second reading, to issue an accompanying document that will clearly, in a clear language, let's just say, explain to the breeders what is expected of them, which are their obligations and how they should deal with their breeding animals, whether it's about raising pets, raising cattle, poultry, poultry or the like. Because at the end of the day, the law can be well written, it can be written in good faith, if those who, to whom the law refers, do not understand it and do not understand what is expected of them, as we expect to apply it. I am sure that instead of punishing those who do not respect the Law, we should first well imagine ourselves and say whether we have done everything to make this Law truly understood to those to whom it is intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118365	As third, they will speak on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, respected colleague Vlasic Iljkic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118366	I would like to thank the Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleague, dear colleagues. Before the very analysis of the proposal of this Law that is before us today, which we consider very important because it is directly about animal health, and therefore the health of all of us, I cannot help wondering why the proposal came today. And why would I ask that? It was precisely because the public consultation was held from November 23, 2021 and closed until December 8, 2021 and lasted only 15 days. The reason for the short-term is that it was an emergency. A short period for counselling and urgent adoption, so there was an explanation, but it was obviously not such an important and urgent law when there was no need for short notice, but you are obviously afraid because, not to get another one of the series of avalanche comments on such a bad law. Note, the Law is addressed to the Council on 30 June this year, and so much on urgency and urgency, because here we can conclude that the Law is related to EU regulations and directives dating from 2016 until the last one with which it is harmonised from June 2021. I must also mention the Veterinary Act that was passed a year ago to discuss today that almost half of this Law will not apply when this Law is passed, and 50 regulations adopted by the Veterinary Act will also not apply. And last year it was worth this regulation, which, today proposed by this Law, we introduced a series of amendments to the Veterinary Act. So today’s Law is addressed to the first reading, and without specific reasons, especially if it is known that only 7 comments have come to them, 5 of which have not been accepted, and two have been accepted. Why such a long term, and why did we not discuss this Law earlier if it was an emergency procedure for public consultation? The law is well-conceived and here I agree with colleagues who spoke before me, in a way that calls for a series of regulations and is therefore very complex and incomprehensible, as well as the remarks of those to whom the law applies and to which the laws will actually be implemented. The point of the law is for citizens who need to respect it to understand and to be clear to them their rights and obligations. This law is not, therefore, a threat to legal certainty, and in practice it will certainly cause a lot of confusion. We agree with the comments from the public consultation that this Law should be withdrawn and completed because it has not been adopted in the way we have passed the laws here and is greatly called, almost every article on the application of the Regulation and it is very complicated to understand and follow. The law is necessary to ensure the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2016/429, which is necessary again in order to establish a common animal health regulatory framework throughout the EU. As stated in the Law, the area of eradication and animal diseases, registration, labelling and traceability of animals and products of animal origin, the transport of animals and products of animal origin within the EU, between EU Member States and third countries and non-commercial movements of pets should be regulated. If such a concise text is adopted in the application of entities which are obliged to comply with the provisions of this law and the regulations adopted will be almost impossible to recognise their obligations and the Ministry of Agriculture should assume the obligation to make a guide for entities in the same way as in Art. 24. Proposals for a guide to publish separate epidemiological units, so I suggest that the obligations of the Ministry of Agriculture for the publication of a guide for entities, at least for work detection, notification, and reporting on diseases for... surveillance, on disease-free status, disease-free measures, registration and approval of entities and objects for land animals, as well as the labelling and traceability of land animals. Each article, as I have said in the introduction of this law on its content, shall be referred to a regulation or any of the eight delegated regulations and shall require an entire follow-up team. I'll give you a few examples, for example. No. 9 subjects and animal experts shall possess adequate knowledge of animal health in accordance with Article. 11th Regulation, entities which sell or in some way transfer the ownership of future pets shall provide basic information to the future pet holder in accordance with Article. 11th century of the 4th Regulation. Art. For example, when carrying out their activities covered by the scope of this Act, veterinarians shall act in accordance with Article 10. 12th Regulation and the provisions of this law. So nowhere does it stand precise what these obligations are and it's very difficult to follow the enforcers of this law. In order to implement this law as set out in the proposal, it is not necessary to provide additional resources in the state budget, although a set of activities is set out. For example, let's just take the preparation of crisis plans, operational plans that include the creation of detailed manuals on which to work the expert commission, representatives of the Veterinary inspection, national reference laboratories and other relevant stakeholders. We have already learned that these relevant stakeholders are very often the ministry determines its partners who later whose jobs are later charged and at a large amount. That is how crisis stations are established at national, local or regional level as well. This is all the news that is being introduced that does not follow at all a financial indicator and what activities are how serious this law is and how serious we can consider the implementation of this law if we do not have the means planned. It shall also cease to apply the very provisions of the Veterinary Act and shall, on the basis of the 50th Regulation adopted. As I said last year, we passed the Veterinary Act and this is absurd because now more than half of the law will not actually apply, and then we knew about the existence of this regulation. Apparently, the co-ordination at the Ministry of Agriculture is lagging behind. For the purpose of fulfilling the obligations laid down in Article 1(1), the following shall apply: 13. Regulation 2016/429 The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall, on a proposal from the Ministry, take a decision on the adoption of the Animal Health Strategy for a period of seven years, setting out, in accordance with national priorities, the objectives in the field of animal health, the activities needed to achieve those objectives and determining human, material and financial resources for the implementation of the planned activities. My inquiry here refers to how long we will wait for this strategy to be drawn up when we have been applying this regulation since 2016, when it has actually been adopted and eight delegated regulations to which we are calling. So we're going to be waiting a very long time for this strategy, too. And now, finally, this law, although it makes perfect sense to regulate animal health priorities, we protect ourselves, but the reality in which we live is that this law is complicated to everyone concerned, unfortunately nothing important will change except that it will satisfy the EU directive through years of delay. If the ministry is as late in the future as it is so far, we may find ourselves in a situation where we will not have those who need to enforce these guidelines legally, and there are fewer and fewer of those to whom this law applies, especially when it comes to the breeding of animals and our cattlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118367	The 4th Club of Representatives is the Homeland Movement in which the respected colleague Dretar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118368	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. My colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of course, we have one big question, which is very nice in the e- Consultation, says one man whom I will quote "The proposed text of the Animal Health Law proposal has 112 articles, and in 703 places it is necessary to look for clarification in the articles of some of the EU regulations." So now we're starting in a way between two fires or we're in a pinch or whatever we want to metaphorically say it. The law itself is extremely unreadable, unclear, I suppose there is no single person in the ministry who could now sit here and interpret it to all of us, even 27 regulations, directives and decisions of the EU, are being introduced into this law. On the one hand, we welcome the fact that this law reduces the volume, that a single legislative framework is being adopted and that no one reasonable has anything, but on the other hand we have a real rational regulation, a directive and decisions that look like this, in art. 6th century of the 1st century of this law is defined as the list of diseases covered by the rules on prevention and control. It says look at EU Regulation 2016/429, so you'll get it all figured out. Now imagine if you really have time to find that regulation on the Internet, so find where it is translated into Croatian, so in which format you will read it, I will save you dear people some time so I will read it to you. Here, briefly and clearly, only one small provision in this regulation. Diseases include foot and foot foot, classical swine fever, African swine fever, highly pathogenic influenza of birds, African horse sickness, bovine plague, small ruminants, vesicle disease of pigs, bluetongue, hive disease, sheep's disease, sheep's or goat's disease, Rift Valley fever, lumpy skin disease, connective stomatitis, Venezuelan viral encephalitis hooves, episodeal haemorrhagic disease of the deer, vernacular pleuropneumonia of bovine animals, newcastel disease, tuberculosis of bovine animals, brucellosis of bovine animals, brucellosis of sheep and goats, feline, rabies, equinocosis, transmissive spongitopic disease, tuberculosis, tuberculosis of cattle, brucellulosis of the fitulosulous infection of the ovrescenta, carinous infection of the wilda cariniculomaresis infection sabon oesophageal infection, and a disease of white spot cancers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's what you should know, I'm surprised you don't know. Already in the next paragraph of Article 6(2), the types of animals to which this law applies again are defined, of course there is no list, the text of the law says, look at the regulation, I have time. Part A lists dogs, cats and pie bags. For those of you who don't know, they're your plants, but I have to look at them myself, too, I have to admit. Part B says they're non-Krands other than bees, mollusks from the knee of the mollusk, crabs from the bred cross of the sea, adorned acoustic animals, amphibians, reptiles. As far as birds are concerned, birds of bird species other than chickens, turkeys, pearls, ducks, geese, quails, pigeons, pheasant, goats, and scratches. The mammals are rodents and rabbits who are not intended for food production, believe it or not, this law also applies to wallpapers, rhinos, rhubarbs, antelopes, cauliflowers, gazelles, camels, lilies, deer, giraffes, occupiers, hydrogen, real pigs, bakeries, common and dwarfed males and elephants. We should know all that. Another beautiful rsommon, let me once again emphasize it is in Article 102 of this law, and it defines the breaking provisions. Now, imagine if an inspector came to you and said this isn't right. I will punish you with a fine of 50 to 100,000 kuna because as a legal person, you have risked the health of the animals held indiscriminately or irresponsiblely using veterinary medicines, you have not reduced the risk of spreading the disease to the least possible extent, and you do not carry out good animal breeding. Now you say as well as why, why. And he says it's very simple. In accordance with the provisions of Article 8 of this Act and Article 9(1) of point (E) and point (A) of point I to I of Regulation (EU) 2016/6429, you must pay the penalty. You want me to read you next article? Here's one if I'm not mistaken, most interesting. You may receive a penalty of 10 to 50,000 kuna because you are responsible for the facilities approved in the article, in Article 54 of this Act, do not keep records and do not notify the Ministry of any changes in accordance with Article 54(5) of this Act, Articles 96 and 97 of points A to I of Regulation (EU) 2016/429, Articles 33, 35, 36 and 37 of EU Delegated Regulation 2019/2035 and Articles 8 and 9 of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/686 and Regulation (EU) No 57 of the European Parliament and of the Council. So, no, no, no, no, don't do that. Now, what I wanted to say to this yet little satirical cartooning I hope you won't blame me for just trying to emphasize the fact that it really is a problem. If the average citizen of this country were him, whether he was growing any animals or not, he simply could not imagine the full width of this vast, vast legislative matter and we certainly recommend that we have time to another reading and we ask the respected proposings to put in the legal proposal, however, some possibility or at least a reasonable period of 30, 60, 90, or 120 days after the law was passed, a manual which could, of course, be delivered to all persons physically or legally to whom this law would apply in the future. Obviously, this law has an extremely wide scope, and I believe that such a document that I shouldn't suppose would cost too much money still has to exist and that it can help us to get better in this vastly wide legislative material. As for me, of course, those who could be found in the future by the impact of certain provisions of this law, especially those who are in violation. The fines aren't small. Of course, I'd like to see just for the end, and we're going to go through an individual exposure, because we're going to introduce the euro from the 9th month anyway, and I believe that that's what the Proposer has already noticed, of course, in the bill where we have the infringement provisions to put in place, so that we don't have to change it there again sometime in the fall or early next year. In any case, I warmly welcome you on behalf of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 and points A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I and I and J, JKL and IKLMNJ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118369	Dear Dretar, you reminded me of the lightest moments of your running radio shows, I remember and the voice reminded me and all of that time Please. [[Intruder: Thank you]] All right, let's move on now, HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Kolarek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118370	Dear President HS, the esteemed secretary, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. As with a number of legislative proposals and acts that we have discussed here many times, the proposal for this Animal Health Act is regulated and harmonized our legal regulations with that of Europe. The Republic of Croatia is obliged to take over its legislation, European regulations or to create a legal basis for the adoption of sublegal acts resulting from the EU regulation, meaning 21 April 2021. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. on the transferable diseases of animals and amending and repealing certain acts in the field of animal health and related regulations. This is, this Regulation is the outcome of the EU Animal Health Strategy from 2007 to 2013. the basic principle of prevention is better than treatment, and is also part of the Commission's package of measures, together with a new regulation on official controls and other official activities that strengthen the application of health and safety standards throughout the agricultural chain. Regulation 2016/429 provides for a single legislative framework that unites or abolishes more than 400 European legal acts, regulations, directives and decisions to ensure uniform application of animal health provisions in all Member States, including the following areas, eradication and control of diseases, registration, labelling and traceability of animals and products of animal origin, the transport of animals and products of animal origin within the EU between EU Member States and third countries, and non-commercial movements of pets, such application goes from 2026. Most of the provisions and rules were in force before and before this Regulation, some and more than 10 years since they were crucial in combating certain animal diseases and ensuring a safe and uninterrupted internal market for live animals and their products. As I have already said since EU regulations are directly applicable in all Member States, the Republic of Croatia must amend its national legislation, which means that the provisions of the current Veterinary Act covering animal health provisions and labelling and registration provisions must be further regulated for the purpose of enabling the implementation of the Regulation in the Republic of Croatia, which is why this law is before us. The law regulates the application of rules on the prevention and control of animal diseases which are transferable to animals and humans, which include the establishment of priorities and the categorisation of diseases, which concern the Union of the Republic of Croatia, and determine the responsibilities for animal health, early detection, notification and reporting of diseases, surveillance, programmes, eradication and status free of disease, awareness, preparedness and control of diseases, registration, approval of facilities and carriers, movement and traceability of animals, replacement products, and products of animal origin within the Union, the entry of animals, replacement products and products of animal origin into the Union, and the export of such consignments from the Republic of Croatia, non-commercial movements of pet animals to a Member State from another Member State or from a third country or areas which, as well as emergency measures to be taken in the event of an emergency, and other measures applicable at national level. The clear criteria for the prioritisation and categorisation of animal diseases as well as the list of... the species of animals and, on the basis of these criteria, a new list of diseases relevant to the EU has been established. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The list includes category A diseases, I will shorten them because these are non-EU animal diseases, and emergency measures should be taken to eradicate them in the event of their occurrence. B, the category of animal diseases to be controlled in all Member States with which, which should be eradicated across the EU. C, animal diseases which are relevant to some Member States and which need measures to prevent them from spreading to other parts of the EU which are officially free of these diseases. Also category D diseases, these are animal diseases, which require measures to prevent them from spreading due to their entry into the EU from third countries or from moving between Member States. And category E diseases, listed diseases that need to be monitored within the EU. Subjects and animal experts shall possess adequate knowledge of animal health. Furthermore, those who sell or otherwise transfer the ownership of future pets are obliged to provide basic information to future holders. Other new elements of the legislative package are linked to the expansion of the legal option for measures, for the prevention and control of diseases in wild animals. It's final. The Animal Health Act will, in whole and in whole national legislation relating to the area of eradication and control of animal diseases, the registration of labelling and traceability of animals and products of animal origin, the transport of animals and products of animal origin within the EU between EU Member States and third countries, and the unconventional movement of pet animals that have been prescribed by the Veterinary Act so far, and place the amount of strength in those strong rules and be in this Animal Health Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118371	Let's move on. Now it's the Green-Left Block's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Willy Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118372	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. I won't keep you. counterpart Hajdukovic and counterpart Vlasic Iljkic have mostly made all those arguments, I will just remind them of what they were talking about. They referred to the comments of the Animal Friends Association that were very good for us and who really point to one of the biggest problems that local self-government encounters among other things, which is a large number of stray dogs, and then volunteers who care at these animal shelters. The word itself says “volunteers. ” But there's not enough room for those dogs, there's no food, there's no money for food. That's all the trouble then, and you're the Secretary of State referencing me to that and you're talking about breeding and objects. We understand it's easy for registered breeders. We're talking about irresponsible individuals who let the puppy go first of all, that we're not talking about kittens now, and you know it's mixed up with that puppy, come on, it's nice not to kill them. But that puppy, if it starts wandering people, is the experience they're talking about. And yet that puppy is being resold. It's falsely even said that when they're small, people who don't know, and they want to buy it cheaper, they're even advertised and sold like they're some kind of race dog. However, I am certainly not burdened by the fact that the dog should be. It would be important that these many pets don't end up living these impossible lives and not falling into the care of volunteers who really do it as warmly as they can, but I can't because such a simple proposal that microchip labelling is no later than 60 days after the day of fertilization there's no reason, there are chips, there's everything else that doesn't reduce it. Animal friends have also consulted on this with Belgian experience and write to you about it, Finnish experience, Slovenian experience and everywhere it has proved that if it comes down to earlier that we have much less of those first of all dogs, but also cats around wandering. Then it reduces people's costs of castration, sterilization and the whole problem automatically decreases significantly, and this has proved possible in Europe. And I'll end up with this, I won't, I don't need to take advantage of the whole speech right now because everything's said about how it's being fixed on one side and that it's a very urgent and important procedure to end up obviously because of a bunch of laws and reports that didn't even get here on the agenda then it moved. The language inside is impossible, and the people who do it every day are a very valuable association. And you know how often and by the clubs with all of you are discussing it, they make a concrete suggestion. And I want to believe that you will still think about it and that until the second reading you will respect this very clear remark of theirs as well as I don't understand exactly what it means to note that animals after all else in our country still have this custom of having that stamp wrapped up because I guess the boss feels better. And that's the custom, I guess he likes cattle.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118373	The seventh Club of Representatives "For Fair Croatia" will be spoken by a respected colleague, Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118374	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Director of Administration, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the Animal Health Act will put off the whole national legislation relating to the area of eradication and control of animal diseases, registration, labelling and traceability of animals and products of animal origin, the transport of animals and products of animal origin within the EU between EU Member States and third countries, and the non-commercial movement of pets so far prescribed by the rules. Exceptional provisions concerning non-commercial movements of pets shall enter into force on 22 April 2026 until Regulation No 576/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 June 2013 on the non-moving of pets and repealing Regulation 998/2003 is in force. The proposed animal health law lays down the competent authorities and their obligations relating to animal health, therefore animal health prevention, control, eradication and monitoring measures, the registration, labelling and traceability of animals and products of animal origin, the transport of animals and products of animal origin within the EU between EU Member States and third countries, non-commercial movements of pets, the obligation of laboratories involved in the implementation of animal health measures, entities, pet and veterinarians, and infringement provisions in all areas covered by Regulation (EC) 2016/429, thus establishing assumptions for the professional and effective implementation of animal health obligations in accordance with the objectives of the new EU legislative framework. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is evident from the above that the amendments to existing legislation are quite serious. I will add that these amendments are abolished around 50 articles of the current law, then 56 sublegal acts or regulations adopted under the Veterinary Act are repealed, then the sublegal act adopted under the Animal Health Protection and Veterinary Activity Act shall cease to apply, so the Regulation on control and eradication measures in animals and all of these amendments shall be put into one single form of communication which among others provides for the Law on the assessment of the effects of the rules where the voice of the profession, or the voice of reason, could be heard, and that is e-consultation and that is totally unacceptable only 15 days of discussion. What about the Round Tables on this subject, what about the communication with the stakeholders to which the changes apply, what about the voice of the profession to respect, for example, cattlemen, and I don't have to ask? The word word format on the e-consultation was only from 3.12.2021, so it was only the 10th day since the publication, and I would ask the ruling one, and what are you afraid of? If you're afraid of cattle farmers or farmers I'll tell you one piece of information that you may not have followed, the number of cattle is the best indicator of the movement of production, and it's in the 10th year. It's pretty dim. Despite the large imports of calves for this share of livestock in the total agricultural production in Croatia, the production of milk is falling unconstitutional, in fact, the most difficult situation in the production of milk, and it is extremely worrying that Croatia produces much less than 50% of its own needs. The number of dairy cows continuously declines, the number of farms, the number of milk suppliers decreases, the quantities of milk produced and the quantities of milk delivered to the dairy processing industry. In particular, in the last year the number of farms has been further reduced by 630 farms, the survivors today are just over 2,000, in the past 10 years. From 2012 to 2021, the number of male cows fell from 180,500 to 102,000, which means we lost more than 40% of the male cows. In 2012, the U.S. The production of milk was 786 million litres, and in 2021. 511 million liters and it's a huge drop of even 34.9%. Of the 602 million kilograms of milk in 2012 the supply of milk to the industry in the last year fell to 429 kilograms, down from 28.7%. Relations in the vertical supply chain are not fully arranged, and neither is the ransom organization well resolved. The difference between production and consumption is from imports, so only in 2021. imported all types of dairy products in the amount of 276,512 tonnes worth 255m euros and exports of dairy products amounted to only 94m euros. It is inevitable that Croatia will lose its own milk production for several years with these negative trends. Despite everything in the Ministry of Agriculture, they don't need to ask the cattlemen anything, hear their thinking, find out what problems are bothering them, despite everything we're still making laws without them, we're doing it in 30 years, and they're looking down and they're not asking the cattleman anything because and why their salaries and their jobs wouldn't be questionable. But I will return to the obligation to mark animals with ear tags prescribed by these amendments. In the middle of 2019, The agriculture ministry boasted that it had abolished a number of different administrative costs, more specifically 190 which were mandatory until then for Croatian cattlemen. Within the system of the Ministry of Agriculture of 1 January 2019 Croatian Agricultural Agency, Croatian Food Agency and Croatian Agricultural Forest Advisory Service have been abolished. The Croatian Agricultural Forest Advisory Service as well as part of Croatian Agricultural Agency's operations has been taken over by the Ministry of Agriculture, while the former Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village has taken over the rest of the Croatian Agricultural Agency and the Croatian Food Agency as a whole. However, while HAPH was expected to take over the job of distribution of ear tags, it did not eventually happen, but it was completely unexpectedly placed in the Office for the Cattle and Quality of Food. The Ministry simply does not have enough people on the ground who could do the job in quality, but this is clearly how the way to potential brand manipulations was opened, especially if it is known that almost stamps have been excluded for years, they are exclusively being obtained through the company Natura d.o.o. It is millions of kunas that have gone to stamps, pliers and other marking equipment, which is almost exclusive to the company Natura d.o.o. thanks to certain persons in the ministry itself. The top of the agriculture ministry has been warned several times about this practice, but so far nothing has changed. Ignoring the real situation and excessive problems on the ground, obediently copying European rules without any short and long-term analyses, guessing and corruption in the ministry obviously leads the Croatian village to an unconstitutional collapse. The draft Animal Health Act abolishes the status of the National Competent Authority for Animal Health. Since the draft Republic of Croatia, and since the adoption of the first Veterinary Act, to date, it has been stated in the Veterinary Law that the Authority is the competent animal health authority and has had the status of CVO. It is the same practice in other countries, for example. in Slovenia, the competent animal health authority is the Veterinary Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft new Health Act provides that the competent national animal health authority should be the Ministry of Agriculture, despite the fact that the commission which has drawn up the draft draft legislation has taken the view that it remains the Authority for Veterinary and Food Safety. The Animal Health Act is adopted in order to implement Regulation 2016/429 on transferable animal diseases, the EU Animal Health Act, which determines that each Member State must have a central national veterinary authority which is, in fact, an expert body headed by the CVO. The profession took the view that they are inadmissible from the fact that the profession abolishs the status of CVO or that the status of administration is abolished in relation to its competence for the professional management of the animal health control system. But it seems to me that the Ministry has ignored the profession, except for the cattlemen. I'm sorry about that. And one more thing. Although the obligation of municipalities and cities to care and care for abandoned animals from their territory is prescribed by the Animal Wellbeing Act, I consider it important to mention that the great JLS ignores this obligation and, apparently, with the approval of institutions, and then the welfare and health of animals are cared for by individuals who, instead of public money for animals, care for their own resources. And I belong to that group, so I can with the right to ask the Secretary of State until [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Like that? [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118375	Now, we will start with individual debates, the first is the respected counterpart Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118376	Thank you very much, President. Here are a few remarks I want to repeat, underline, and in an individual debate. The first objection to the law is incomprehensibility. So it's very complicated what can lead to implementation problems, and I would even suggest that in the second reading of one of the articles of the law it is that the ministry is obliged to make, we want to say a guidebook, instructions as you wish for breeders, or that they know exactly what they are, their obligations so that later there are no confusions and that there are no later situations that unfortunately many pay penalties not because they wanted to break the law but simply did not know what they should do. The other thing I want to get to know and underline is to chip cats. So, which wasn't necessarily the past law or this one. By chipping cats, they would solve a whole series of stray cats’ problems and make it easier to search for stray cats, or they could be returned to their owners. This represents, I think, that this would also lead to savings in the budget of units of local self-government that must then take care of abandoned animals, or would also facilitate the work of NGOs and animal-care enthusiasts. It would be easier to locate their owner. And the third no less important thing I want to point out is abandoning inhumane practices. We live in the 21st century, there are painless or minimally traumatic alternatives to animal tagging, so I think that really stamping is something that should belong to the past. It is a very inhumane procedure highly traumatic for an animal which is harmful to an animal for several reasons if we later use it for any milk, meat, etc., it can also leave side effects but it is potentially and fatally and may have much greater damage if the person who performs this stamping is not capable of doing so. Therefore, there are alternatives, there are methods from ear tags to injectable transponders, transponders, pardons, so I really don't see why we can't use more advanced technologies in chipping and marking animals and abandoning some inhumane practices. If the law reflects these three requirements that I have, I am willing to support it and, of course, support it in the second reading because we cannot directly influence even amendments in this one, we can only discuss and we will see what the Proposer will do until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118377	We have a few replicas. The first one's a respected lawyer, Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118378	I thank the chairman. My colleague, I will actually join this observation of yours, and here I will also use this replica, once again emphasize to those who are very incomprehensible to the legislators of this law and what is said and in the public debate, here I will read here and from the Retriver Club of Croatia, that the law is actually very incomprehensible in this way, so you should serve those who should read this law to give them clear instructions, here and that they should not spend this month reading the directive, comparing and looking at what is to do and how to behave. So here again I appeal that this law is really written in a way that will benefit those to whom the law is intended. Here, just so much about it, so I'm joining your remarks and all those who said it here in a public debate and here's a message to the legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118379	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118380	Thank you, colleague Puljak, I agree with you, of course. In fact, we've introduced the European acquis before, and it didn't look like this. Indeed, when people who are breeders complain that they cannot read that law, the legal profession cannot read the law, so they should literally list every directive on which the regulations on which the law is referred and read them, study them, and then think about what the legislator was going to say. So in a text like this, I don't think we're gonna achieve anything. Either you need to radically change the text so that it is legible or as I said in one of the first articles, the ministry needs to be made not be able to say the consolidated text, but the instructions, the guide or something that would allow those breeders to read their rights and obligations more easily, so that they do not have to waste time reading European legal documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118381	Dear representative Ban Vlahek. She's gone. She's losing her right to speak. Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118382	I thank the chairman. So, a fellow really need to support you in your debate I'm glad you're showing empathy to animals, but I find it rather unusual that those who are for this job paid is not showing. I also find it personally unacceptable to stamp, not in the 21st century, not at a time when we have completely other methods of modern, less invasive, less attacking for the animal itself. Otherwise they say that society is developed, that society is civilized and empathy is exactly how much empathy we treat the most vulnerable, and for me are the most vulnerable children, people with disabilities, old and powerless and animals, so this is one test for our society, or we will accept less invasive methods towards animals, or we have really fallen to the test of empathy as a whole as a society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118383	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118384	Thank you, colleagues, for your support. So unfortunately, ruling often falls into empathy, not only toward animals but also towards our citizens, or to the vulnerable groups that you have listed. But I'd like to add one more thing, so if you're not empatic, here's what we put aside, stamping except that it's extremely traumatic for an animal, so imagine how traumatic it is for you to get burned, and this is deliberate exposure to the hot metal of the animal's skin, it can potentially harm animals and bigger, so it can burn fur, and the animal can have burns from it literally for weeks, so the welfare of the animals that you want to potentially commercially exploit is at stake. So I really don't see because we have technology available that's not invasive and it's not so traumatic for an animal why we shouldn't use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118385	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118386	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Representative Hajdukovic, here's a small example in March this year we drove a van from Ukraine to Croatia in which they were of course refugees, but also their pets, so it was a transfer of animals that might have been found somewhere in this law, but in this law I didn't see anything about third countries at all, so perhaps here's a respected secretary asking that you have the right to speak to us a little bit to explain it to us, I haven't seen that transfer from third country to the EU. I know we drove them that we waited hours at the borders of both Hungary and Croatia because the customs staff simply didn't know what to do and by what laws. The Ukrainians mostly don't copy their pets or dogs or cats, the accompanying documentation was almost nothing and our customs officers themselves to be honest they saw through our fingers and somewhere at three o'clock in the morning they just told us people don't know what to do with God's help driving ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118387	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118388	Thank you, colleague Dretar, it was certainly a special situation, but here is Ukraine is now a candidate for EU membership so I believe that slowly they will also start to introduce a European acquis, including in this. I've read something about third countries somewhere, but I can't be sure it's quite a long text of the law or it's very hard to read, but I can't swear. But there are rules that I'm not sure are regulated by this law, but there are animal rules that certainly the secretary of state can say something more about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118389	Now she will speak to the esteemed representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118390	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The secretary of state, the eunuchs, the MPs and the MPs. Here are the past few more than a year we have been discussing a set of laws relating to animal health, veterinary control, and I hope that both with this law today and with the debate when the law will be in the final reading, we will slowly bring this work of harmonisation with the EU to an end, that we will simplify the procedure, reduce the number of sublegal acts in order to make it easier on the ground and on the competent state services, but also those who are an important shareholder in the implementation of these laws, which are farmers themselves. I would like to begin by commending the reaction that came after the last bee sea in Međimurje, the reaction of the Ministry of Agriculture and the competent inspections of the State Inspectorate who indeed reacted and determined, of course, not only the killing of bees in Međimurje but also in Varazdinska and Virovitica-Podravska County. After the cause, it was found that it was not a disease, but that it was an illicit use of protective agents or pesticides, which totalled more than 1400 bee communities and caused damage to 35 beekeepers. As I pointed out, the State Inspectorate has carried out the cause through Veterinary and Agricultural Affairs, what is fortunate in the accident that it has proved that honey has not been polluted, but the remains of pesticides found in the dead bees and in the hives themselves are alarms for alarm. And I would also like to use this debate to invite them to find themselves if they haven't already and that appropriate punishments are being imposed because for this reason we have changed the Law on the Sustainable Administration of the pesticides and prescribed stricter penalties. That's what I'm saying in the context that we can take care of animal health on the one hand, as we do, and I think we're really putting a lot of effort and financial resources into it, but if there's an irresponsibility of individuals on the ground then as they say in the country, fat goes to waste. So, in that sense, I believe that there are other colleagues who agree, and we expect clear sanctions from these proceedings. I have to say that we have a lot of complaints not only about farmers from the field who are in some way caused by the irresponsible behaviour of individual cattle owners, but about local management units and self-governments whose backsides have been burdened by livestock care, domestic animals whose owners simply don't respect game rules. So I'm just going to show here that you see it's part of these concepts that the Committee on Agriculture has dealt with, which the Committee on Agriculture is discussing where we've been looking for evidence and where we've been looking for the handling of relevant and amending certain regulations because I think it's clear to everyone here that the units of local self-government can't carry out such a burden on their own backs, especially if we're talking about, for example, for example, the Mayor of the Majur municipality has recently spoken to me, it's a small municipality in the Banovina area that is suffering from an earthquake where she, after the owner didn't care about her cattle, whether he was sick, whether he was reasonably absent, she didn't know it, came for days as the head of the municipality to feed and feed his cattle, which, of course, with her work is not quite sustainable. And the obligation imposed by law is that she, as the head of the municipality, should set up a shelter. It is, of course, in addition to her budget, with all the troubles that this area has experienced simply impossible. In that sense, I welcome the flexibility of the ministry that you and the state secretaries have announced, but in previous communication with the minister, we addressed the issue when that problem occurred in Neretva, in Obuzen and around Sinj, the committee reacted without delay. I am pleased that the ministry has given up some radical measures that were originally imagined and that through the tender you will co-finance the construction of these shelters. It's the only sustainable solution because municipalities and cities, here I assure you, and you could hear it here and some of the local self-government leaders are not able to do it. I don't have any more time, and I'd like to touch a savage who's doing damage and what's a potential source of infection for our domestic lives. Fortunately We don't have a simple swine plague, but if it keeps going like this, I'm not sure we're gonna stay... [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118391	Thank you very much, you've exceeded your time, please, please, let's not so much of a time, I'm inclined to close this close for a few seconds, but a little, little bit of what's excessive is excessive. This, respected representative, Ban Vlahek, has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118392	I apologize in advance, and I know that I'm being followed by a warning, but dear colleague Petyr, I know you can't answer me, but I'd like to ask you, if you could, through a replica, you touched my Međimurje and the bee's murder. What I'm particularly interested in is saying that you know the cause, the sanctions for those who did it, and whether or not these perpetrators can be found at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118393	Of course I have to give you a warning because it was this replica, and it can't tell you, and neither can counterpart Petyr tell you anything. Uh, let's go to real replicas. First respected representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118394	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues, here I will look back at the findings of European auditors who have made very big remarks on the work of the Ministry of Agriculture, which are related to the labelling of sheep, primarily where it was found that the hard coefficient in Croatia should be at least 1.0. This official Croatian coefficient for lambs is 0.6. In other words, this means that more than 40% of the lambs were less registered in the system and sold on black, resulting in very certain that Croatia would receive significantly less funds or be able to withdraw, but such actions could also affect animal health or disease transmission. Here, which is your comment and are you familiar with that case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118395	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118396	Thank you, colleague Vlasic Iljkić. I'm not familiar with this review finding, so I don't know exactly what this is about, but what I'm up for is absolutely every animal being recorded, being in the system because it's important for us and for the traceability of the food that's being put on the table. We also care about the surveillance and security we want to achieve from field to table. In that sense, my question was also on the board yesterday and today related to floating cattle because the figures are quite different to see how to achieve a certain balance in the record itself and how and that part of either cattle or lambs or pigs that are not in the system to record and follow from the beginning to the end so from field to table to ensure consumers quality and safety, but also thus removed unfair competition because if someone sells black it is unfair competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118397	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118398	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Petyr, you yourself have highlighted the problem of units of local self-government that are somehow now in charge of taking care of or caring for abandoned animals, above all stray dogs, etc. They show up on the field. This one, we're really dealing with huge problems here. First of all, the communal director simply can't, it's very difficult to determine whether an animal is chipped or not because he simply can't enter another person's yard, in a private visit to check whether or not that dog is chipped. This, second, another real problem is that often in these institutions for care, veterinary sites etc. which are registered are sub-disciplined or simply do not have enough capacity to take care of all these animals, all these dogs, you just have nowhere to go, that's, that's another problem. The third problem is often that, and when the animals are taken care of there, we must practically pay huge costs for her treatment, for chipping, for vaccinations, for as long as that animal or that dog does not find a permanent foster parent, etc. It is often really financially burdensome to local self-government units that just can't handle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118399	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118400	Well, you've said everything exactly because you, as head of local self-government, can best testify to the challenges you face from your own experience. And that's what I often know to tell me maybe here or people in the ministry or those who are designing regulations in Brussels can imagine what an ideal situation should look like. But life is not ideal and there are many challenges that units of local self-government face. This is about very large expenditures, so we should find a model for owners who have either domestic animals or pets to agree to adhere to the law and to take care of their own animals. Because it seems to me that if the burden remains exclusively on the local self-government unit, it won't be possible. This is a shift that the ministry announced the construction and financing of regional shelters. But given how much the mayors, the mayors speak, address the problem, I'm afraid these shelters won't be enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118401	Dear representative Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118402	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Petir. By listening to your debate, you've said that the Committee on Agriculture has received a lot of objections to the owners of domestic animals, let's say pets and we've now discussed a lot of this today which are all obligations and us in the units of local self-government for abandoned animals, for stray animals, for citizens' calls, etc. Well, you haven't been able to say anything about wild animals yet in your debate, i.e. I'm asking you to say something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118403	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118404	Thank you, Comrade Dragon. Well, yes, we've detected this problem on the board because we see that the damage from the savages is growing visiblely, that the gamer is multiplying, that even somewhere we've come across with domestic animals, that she's domesticated so much that she's getting into people's backyards, especially where rural areas are less populated. And in this sense we called on the Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Hunting Union to find a sustainable solution to this problem in one dialogue, because we fear that our country status free of infectious diseases could be compromised because we know that there are countries in the environment that have had a problem with African swine fever. Fortunately, we have not had, but these animals migrate and unless order is introduced, and it certainly cannot be small local societies on the ground or farmers themselves, but it must be synergyally done from the state level we fear that such propagation of game, their invasion will in fact affect the health of domestic animals, which would be devastating because it is enough that they are already doing enormous damage to crops and plantations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118405	Thank you. Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118406	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, here in the hinterland of Dalmatia, we have more and more unfortunately an example of wolves entering settlements, doing huge damages, and even threatening the safety and health of people in a special way, and clearly they are a potential risk of contagion. And we know from 2014 that game fishing has been banned. By then there were four at one year level. The cattle associations and hunters' associations say there are certainly more than 200 individuals, wolves in the territory of the Republic of Croatia than is mentioned in public. Here, so I'm interested in your opinion in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118407	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118408	Thank you, colleague Brcic. So we are at it if we can say so to the hearing that we have called about the damage that savages do on crops and crops, we have also called on the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, because it is in their jurisdiction to protect nature and pay off those damages that are made by protected animals. What we addressed, which we reopened on the board yesterday as a topic and we reiterated very unsatisfactory with the amount paid to farmers whose livestock was killed by protected animals. And in that sense, we believe that some shifts must be made. The Secretary of State announced a discussion by the Ministry of Agriculture with the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, but I agree with you that the number of these individuals has grown significantly and that, in this sense, the competent ministry needs to develop a new action plan in which this number of individuals must correspond to the real situation and, in that sense, the action must be in line with the real situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118409	Thank you. Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118410	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, here you are talking about bee fishing and certainly that bees should be in priority of our interests given the role they play in pollinating and creating new values. And now here is the question of individual responsibility. We can write perfect laws if an individual is careless, or if he mistreats those legal norms, then we haven't actually done anything. And my question to you, which should be sanctions that we can really re-bred in a pedagogical sense, I mean raising a man that no longer does such a crime in nature without saying what was done so much killing a bee without anyone answering it. So we can do whatever we want, the law is written, no one will punish us. We need to change practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118411	Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118412	Thank you, fellow Shimičević. As a man who comes from the pedagogical profession, you would surely first advocate trying lovingly to raise individuals and change consciousness. But we have seen that here such pedagogical methods unfortunately do not yield results and that was why we changed the recent Law on the sustainable use of pesticides, where penalties for violations of this type as we saw in Međimurje both for natural and legal persons are quite high. But here, I don't have any final data on the unsub's whereabouts now. Inspections have found that illicit pesticides are the cause of this pestilence, and I hope that the investigation will come to those who have indeed committed such a crime, not only would I say criminally, but also criminally. Because when you kill so many bees communities, you disrupt the biological balance and question the entire food chain.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118413	Thank you. Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118414	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow Petyr, you are aware that all animals on the farm must be marked with ear tags. In fact, the Croatian Agricultural Agency was in charge of the work until recently. When the agency was abolished in early 2019, it was expected that the job would be taken over by the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food. However, the authority for earmarks has been transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture more precisely to the Office for the Agriculture and Quality of Food at the Ministry of Agriculture. That move has made Croatia the only EU member state in which it is responsible for issuing ear tags directly under the Ministry of Agriculture, not under a separate agency. Later, we heard about certain benefits and the multimillion-dollar benefits of a company that was constantly purchasing ear tags and was actually causing damage to the entire ministry. I know it's a difficult question, but how does it affect such things and how does it change? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118415	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118416	Thank you, colleague Vukovac, for the question, so when we talk in general about animal health control and the whole system, we see that there are many shared opinions for individual services where they should be. You remember that we also had a thematic session with the Croatian Veterinary Chamber, that we received a lot of complaints because the veterinary inspection was singled out in the State Inspector. There was a complaint yesterday at the board meeting because certain jobs are being separated from the Veterinary Authority, and I find it really hard to be a judge. What interests me as a representative is that the system works. So, whether this or that service agency or the ministry is going to work, I don't think it's that important if the system works and if it's all set by law. So, what we can do in this case that you address is to check whether the public procurement has been carried out in accordance with the law and whether those earmarks are really chosen by all procedures. Here I think it is. As a committee, we can ask. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118417	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118418	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, although you should have warned us a little because bees are not the subject of this law, but of course we have to discuss them. So I'll be right there, here's another one of our dear Bosks, respected MPs Ban Vlahek's question, because what I've prepared is not so important, and hers remains irresponsible. So here we go, going through another very difficult situation, which is the worst thing that ever happened. What is currently done, you said that the system works well, it was almost a panegirick but where are we currently sanctioned, an investigation into how we stand by it? And thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118419	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118420	Thank you, colleague Dretar, I have to correct you, the bees are animals and these domestic animals, so we've changed the law if you remember recently, and if we're talking about animal health, then we should also talk about bees. As I said, therefore, the unfavorable case was repeated, we had a similar situation in 2020 where we agreed that the procedure had not been brought to an end and that we would not like it to happen again in this new case and should indeed say that both the veterinary and agricultural inspections and the competent administrations of the Ministry of Agriculture had responded without delay. All samples were excluded, not only controlled in beekeeping and bees but also honey condition. It was an effective and rapid reaction. We expect to establish the perpetrator to be punished. The ministry has promised to defuse beekeepers and also through a measure of 5 rural development programmes to help them restore their potential which has been destroyed here. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118421	The Honorable representative Dretar has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118422	The President-in-Office of the European Parliament and of the Council Dear Representative Petir has been working in agriculture for decades, and we all acknowledge your expertise. But when we said in the debate about this law that it was unclear and that the illiterate, you yourself, self-respected Mrs. Petyr, made a mistake. Namely, you did not read Regulation 2016/429 which accurately defines the types of animals to which this law applies, and in Part V, it writes brackets other than bees. I'm sorry, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118423	You know it was a replica, not this violation of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118424	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues Petir absolutely agree with everything you've said about bees that's a problem that we'll just have to find more effective answers, limit the use of pesticides, maybe ban at least those who influence bees because they say, maybe a little pathetic but the truth is that no bees will be us either. I am glad that you have apostrophe of the problem of cattle, I also from my country, but also from some other parts of Croatia I have a whole series of complaints about owners who do not care about cattle and the worst of all is that they know whose cattle it is, but often there is no reaction or any misdemeanor measures which raises the property of other people and, of course, the budgets of the municipalities. However, since I highly appreciate you through your work in agriculture, I would like to hear your opinion on the language of this law because you did not mention it. Is this law really legible and understandable to you, or should it be done in that sense?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118425	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118426	So here's if I can just touch this part around the bee, according to my knowledge here very likely according to a public conversation because I say I don't have a final, final inspection report was about the introduction from other pesticide countries that are not allowed in the territory of Croatia. I think that we have already limited the use of pesticides quite a bit and, according to the European Commission's report, Croatia is relatively well, or much better standing when it comes to the use of pesticides than other Member States. Also antimicrobials. When it comes to cattle and irresponsible owners, I think it should really be connected to the Agricultural Payment Agency because if cattle have ear tags and it is known who owns it, then that owner cannot receive support and that the municipality or the city of its livestock feeds, care and must allocate funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118427	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118428	Thank you very much, Vice President. Reverend Mrs. Petir, I don't want to talk about bees, I'm going to pass on to something bigger. One of the problems that has been articulated through the meetings of the Committee on Agriculture is the so-called so-called Agriculture Committee. Floating cattle. It's something that's a problem, and so little seems to be going under, under the radar. Most MPs here and come from the area of local self-government and this problem is really the topic of this whole debate on the care of these animals. But I think that this is also a big problem where in the whole procurement process we simply come up with that the animals disappear, simply the numbers are not consistent with what, which is on the ground, so that might be the one thing that you might say a few words about, and I think it's a good thing that the public knows what the concept of "floating cattle" is quite abstract.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118429	Thank you. Respected, respected counsel Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118430	Thank you, colleague Ivanovic, so it is a cattle that is not registered, and it is somehow found in the system and what we would like to have entry and exit for every throat found in the system because then we can be sure that the health of these animals that we are discussing today will be controlled, that it will be controlled, we heard at the end and that the Secretary of State has announced that the ministry will issue 15 million kunas for veterinary checks which we welcome because we know that the prices of veterinary services are not very small and we believe that through such controls and the system that exists will record absolutely all cattle that are clearly outside the system today because then it opens the question whether any of this cattle ended in some butcher's shop, so as it ended, whether it was tested in the right way, whether what is then placed on a plate is also appropriate for consumers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118431	Thank you. Dear Representative Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118432	The Honorable Chairman and fellow Members of Petir, and here we have heard many times today that the bill's proposal is overwhelming, vague, etc., no one has mentioned the role of advisory services so far, so advisory, do you think that the advisory service must be that link between the ministry or the interpretation of laws, new laws, laws and OPGs, animal owners, in their communication and in their advice that this law draws closer to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118433	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118434	Thank you, colleague Kolarek. The advisory service is certainly an important link when we talk about the education of pesticide farmers and how to know what their obligations are when it comes to animal health care. Of course, we should always make sure that the laws we write are understandable, and this law simplifies both the language and the number of sublegal acts and perhaps the inconsistencies and inconsistencies that so far existed. But what I would say and what the Committee on Agriculture has repeatedly called is important in capitating the advisory service. Today, a consultant comes to 585 agricultural economies, those who are supermen and superwomen cannot get to do all the work that is being put before them, so it is important that the advisory service is capacitated, that they are constantly educated and that financial resources are allocated except for public and private advisory services.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118435	Dear Representative Ljubomir Kolarek will now speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118436	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Well, given that I'm a veterinarian, I have to look at one fact that the draft Animal Health Law Bill of the Veterinary and Food Safety Authority abolishes the status of the national competent body for health and animal health, and it suggests that it be the Ministry of Agriculture, of course it was also a recommendation from the Ministry of Administration that it can not be the administration but the ministry, I believe that and I hope that there may be some changes in the second reading. Why did I say that? The veterinary profession is in its history, but back there at the beginning of this century, we fought cow madness, swine fever, bird flu, African swine fever, etc. and it all went to the part that was to be done through veterinarians, through veterinary cells, and there was one big, big part of it done, and so I think that the Veterinary Authority should continue to have that status. Secondly, I would refer to one fact, one finding, all of us talking is the Animal Protection Act in care, asylum, it's all a nice story, but I'm going to tell you one thing now, you might be a little surprised. Maribor is a city that has about 110-113 thousand inhabitants, there is an asylum of animals where, when we go to asylum today, 30 dogs and 30 cats will be found, there will be a total of around 180 dogs and about 330 cats there. Do you know how many dogs are currently in the asylum in Čakovec, 509 dogs, instead of our number falling our number growing and that's that responsibility of the owners of dogs or small animals etc., we all love animals and we simply captured the ministry to finance the chipping, to finance vaccination, to finance castration, where these owners are dogs, dogs or cats and if I love my dog then I will worry and take all measures. This is a very important fact because when we sum up and subtract all of this together, I am the mayor of one city with 7.5 to 8,000 people, we give about 60,000 kuna a year, and we say that we're still doing well to maintain asylum, and where there are other municipalities that have a much smaller budget and where there is finally the town of Čakovec and Međimurska County. And therefore, raising awareness and education and ultimately, we must not run away from the fact that there must be penalties. We have a carrot on one side, on the other hand we have a beating because we have to think about it because neither the ministry's budgets nor the local self-government's budget can stand it. And I hope that... exactly what my colleague Petir said to the Agriculture Committee will now be there if I don't cheat on 69 sessions and discuss many problems in this way and in some way we put pressure on both the minister and the entire ministry to update all the problems as soon as possible and start solving them. As for the bee, be careful the second time it happened in Međimurje, killing bees, and when I found out how it happened together, I don't know if I'd shed a tear or don't know what to do, one typical irresponsibility of agricultural producers. So raising awareness, responsibility and control, strengthening the advisory service will be the one that, if we want this law to come to life with full lungs, we will have to raise everyone together to a higher level.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118437	We have multiple replicas, the first respected Zmaic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118438	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear colleague Kolarek. This proposal for a new Animal Health Act is a fundamental law that will carry out animal health professionally and efficiently, and we hope to address the uncontrollable traffic of animals that has a great deal on the ground. You are currently the head of the local self-government unit, and by the call or profession of a veterinarian, do you find this law even more stringently prescribed obligations and responsibilities for veterinarians who are on the ground in Slavonia becoming less and more stringent?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118439	Dear Representative Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118440	Thank you very much. So I'll tell you some of the numbers I know, my colleague Rose said we had in those best times 180,000 cattle. Do you know how much the percentage of the floating and uncontrollable was then? Over 30%. Today it is reduced to a very small measure, at the end of the day and the number of cattle is reduced and I hope that this bill will also be very controlled today. Once the borders were much softer and there were many illegal imports of both cattle and pigs and other animals and even wild animals. I believe that it will shrink to a lesser extent, and of course there remains more money than you yourself said about local self-government units, but first of all, you would appeal again. to the consciousness of animal owners. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118441	Dear Representative Saturday.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118442	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This bill says a lot about care and the prevention and spread of infectious diseases, the colleague herself said you are a veterinarian by profession, so what is the role of the veterinary profession and in the prevention and spread of infectious diseases both animals and humans are, I mean, primarily, zoonoses?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118443	Dear Representative Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118444	Thank you very much. Well, the role of our vet is big, huge. I only remember when it was 2007. I think that at that time in our county, I'll tell the county that was euthanized somewhere near 4,000 pigs between the two rivers, to prevent exactly all the measures prescribed by the regulations on the prevention, prevention, eradication, eradication of infectious diseases at that time from letter to letter to prevent the spread of the disease. And then I have to admit half a year of a big exhausting fight is every 19th or 21st day. Incubations, so he showed up again. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118445	Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118446	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow, here we are at a time when the tourist season is slightly insinuating, and it is known that many tourists have their pets, sometimes it is exotic species such as various species of snakes and so on and so on and upon return, who often knows why they leave these animals at the mercy of our premises. I remember one event two, three years ago when a giant snake was seen in Lake Peru, a part of people supported by various fantasies and stories got scared, the other part entertained in every case, and the local population had given that beast its local name Karaconjolla, I think, knows Miro that it was somehow called, in any case I believe that all these animals that are being brought into Croatia to register and therefore their exit should be monitored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118447	Dear Representative Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118448	Thank you very much. So of course all such animals follow certain documentation that they must have when entering the Republic of Croatia, means documentation in which it is clearly recorded whether they are healthy and of course that documentation is being entered and when leaving the Republic of Croatia it must simply also be shown that it is removed from the records.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118449	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118450	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Kolarek. Well, here we've heard observations that this bill is comprehensive, or that it may be too wide in some segments. But since it includes over 400 regulations and the EU directive, it cannot be different. But I would go back to the level of local, or we at the level of units of local self-government have an obligation to develop wildlife protection programs and that is what the vast majority of local self-government units have done. It's about like some small hunting-economic bases, very high-quality documents, define all the roles and tasks of all the factors in that chain. However, they are also often unrealistic, because you simply cannot have a situation where you simply cannot comply with these provisions. We had a specific case, a wild pig literally entered people's backyards, broke through three, four fences, one cloak, and so on. And now we should practically notify the police station first. The police station determines the murder of the authority responsible for, I mean, it's impossible, it would take five minutes and over.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118451	Thank you. Dear Representative Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118452	Thank you very much. I think these procedures should be much simpler, and these procedures should be much simpler, and so that in the shortest time, such animals are simply removed, taken care of and prevented not only from some animals spreading infectious diseases, but also from physically harassing such animals on humans, children. I personally believe that some acts should be adopted, sublegal acts on emergency measures, emergency situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118453	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118454	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your colleague Kolarek as a veterinarian is well aware of the functioning of the veterinary service on the ground. We also discussed with the Croatian Veterinary Chamber the challenges they face. There are some areas of the Republic of Croatia that are not covered by the veterinary service. There are many different reasons, so my question is how to ensure the availability of veterinarians to all farmers because we know that veterinarians are a key link in the animal health care process. And the second question, we often get complaints that these veterinary services are extremely expensive. Whether they should be so expensive and could in some ways come up with slightly lower prices for farmers through certain models.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118455	Dear Representative Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118456	Well, thank you very much. Here I was recently at the celebration of 30 years of the Croatian Veterinary Chamber and there met many colleagues and, of course, the immediate story and discussion of problems. Of course, we are still, or as the colleague said, with the reduction in the number of cattle, especially cattle production and pig production, the number and veterinarians decreased. I'm just going to give an example when I was writing down the vet in '86. We were 360 enrolled in the first year. Now that you're enrolling in the wind, there's about 50 to 70 students who focus on either health, health care, or large or small practice. I think it should be possible for every farmer, or animal breeder, to have a veterinary waist available to him and in as much financial terms as possible. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118457	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118458	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A respected colleague of the law is in nature good, but we have an awful lot of irresponsible individuals who do not behave according to the law and we have all because of this increasingly abandoned animals. When we turn it into Croatian kunas, then we talk about the entire Republic of Croatia, then it's a terrible lot of money, and we spend a lot of money, we don't see very good results just because we don't sanction these individuals. If we had responsible individuals, then we could invest that money in schools and kindergartens and other things that might be more necessary in the Republic of Croatia today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118459	Dear Representative Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118460	Thank you very much. Well, unfortunately for me, it's simply incomprehensible that in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia there are abandoned animals, especially cattle, cows, horses. I come from northern Croatia where there is no such thing, I must admit it. We're having trouble with abandoned dogs. That's not what we're running from. But because of the specific situation that we have with Roma settlements, it has narrowed down even to a smaller extent because a dog castration action was carried out in 2018 in Roma settlements. But what you said to repeat once again, that there should be sanctions and penalties against such individuals in order to simply not spend money on such things but instead to focus on incentives in agriculture, especially cattle that are currently less and less.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118461	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118462	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague, a representative area that appears every so many times where bird flu is found in different areas of Croatia, these are diseases that are dangerous to birds, not humans. And I would also cite the influenza of the last one that happened at a domestic poultry in Osijek-Baranja County, as well as bird flu in wild birds in Lonjsko Polje, on the Varazdin Lake and on the coast of the Central Adriatic, and domestic poultry in the vicinity of Sisak. It's all a lot of damage that can happen to breeders. And according to you, how much of the provisions of this new law will change so far's behaviour, that is, what you think about setting up crisis headquarters at national, local and regional level.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118463	Dear Representative Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118464	Thank you very much. That's a very good question, I have to admit. Influenza birds or bird flu, it is very specific and interesting. She won't and very rarely will hit the organized peradar production because the poultry facilities are closed. They're about to hit these areas that you listed, open spaces, etc. ... or agricultural holdings that have 20 and 30 or 50 chickens and ducks or I don't know what, there are measures, then they have to close, they can't be outside, etc. At that time, but since all these diseases are coming, the birds are moving in most of the time from other countries, and then we are unfortunately one target, and I think that setting up crisis headquarters, so there was that, and when there was both swine fever and cow madness, we met almost every day. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's... [[Thank you. Dear...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118465	Thank you. Thank you. Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118466	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleague, I just wanted to get your argument that you've brought to the debate about abandoned animals, but here we are a little bit, I think, in a vicious circle because if the animals don't chip, we'll never be able to find their owners, and when we find the owners, I agree with you, absolutely, that they should be sanctioned. Since you're mayor, you've talked about pets, so dogs, cats, but a much more serious problem is cattle, especially in rural areas, so we don't have to talk. And once again, I would repeat this case that is truly outrageous. So Velebit is full of wild horses. Wild horses that cause damage in agricultural areas cause traffic accidents, etc. So these are the throats that were released into the wild, that were going wild, that started to reproduce out there uncontrollably, and now they're creating problems. And it is interesting that owners receive incentives for these throats at the same time because they are indigenous Croatian breeds, or horse species.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118467	Dear Representative Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118468	So look, what do you say to that? I absolutely agree that first all horses should be taken care of and then punished by the owners. Very clearly without a lot of philosophizing and keeping the figs in your pocket.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118469	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118470	Thank you very much, colleague, mostly, all the laws of this directive, the regulations we introduce in this Act, reducing the meaning of standards that have been exaggerated, unclear, led to all falling to units of local self-government, from financial costs to organisation or concessionaries in relation to shelters for unsettled animals. However, yes, the fact is that we in Dalmatia also have a huge problem with cattle, horses that have been abandoned, in fact not even abandoned, but not enough care for them, even those owners who do not take care of these animals receive legal incentives from Croatia from the EU funds so that we have one problem implementing the law. We can pass an even better law, however, in the field it really all fell on local self-government, and there are huge burdens both financially and technically and there is a problem, implementation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118471	Thank you. Dear Representative Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118472	Well, thank you very much. Well, I'll answer as well as my colleagues to Hajdukovic, look. The State Inspectorate, or veterinary inspection, has to do the part and the application, and it's not there, I think we have to be, become, no more sentimentality, people dear. The law must apply to the North of Croatia, as well as to the rest of Croatia. I mean, I worked as a veterinary inspector. Believe me, it was the hardest thing for me to write someone a ticket, but if you warn someone four or five times, and even if what you said, it's getting a boost, it's even worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118473	Dear Representative Bulj has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118474	Thank you very much. He's hurt his ankle. 238, I'm aware that I'm going to get a warning, the inspectorate, when I pointed out that he punished me as mayor, for 20 years he tolerated and encouraged and he didn't care about those cows who drank the sewers, sold them meat, milk, here, when I pointed out that, here are witnesses, the secretary of state, there's Mrs. who was at the meeting, you know who was being punished by a veterinary inspection? That's what I'm saying. Why? Because they're playing with these people who have cows, which so benefits, which let her go without worry... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118475	Thank you. As you said yourself, you know you'll get a warning, so I have to give it to you. Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118476	I thank the chairman, dear colleague Kolarek, yes, here we have mentioned several times today and this state inspectorate of ours. I personally think they're not working hard enough, they're not busy enough because I've personally had experience, and several times, I've reported a situation where I was accidentally a witness on the street where the owner beat up his dog in front of us a few passersby, I'm the same... I also reported everything I received from the Inspectorate, although I signed the application, listed the address, all the information I had at that time, just came to me with an automatically generated message that my application was received. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's never been a reaction after that. Similarly, if we were to report cows, for example, to this heat in the cow-body system, many were released unsupervised by the owner and then neighbors gather or some empathy souls and carry water, carry food because the owner obviously won't do it. Of course he's applying to the inspectorate, the inspectorate's reaction is constantly lagging behind. How do you change that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118477	Dear Representative Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118478	Thank you very much. So how do you change that? The internal supervision of the State Inspector responsible for this area. To sanction him, too, if he has not taken certain measures prescribed by law. As a veterinary inspector in Međimurje County, at the most difficult times when Croatia moved to legislation and had at least 10 in the EU, we had at least 10 EU inspectors' supervision. I didn't sleep for 2, 3 nights when they were coming, controlling our work, our treatment and our subjects in the food business, and these are poultry, cattle, etc. That inspector certainly doesn't have a conscience, and he doesn't do legal work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118479	Dear Representative Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118480	Dear colleague, well you said and surprised by the figures when you mentioned or compared Maribor and Čakovec, so I am interested in your opinion that we are obviously not doing something right to get this example like Maribor or obviously we do not have enough regulated laws, so I am interested in what we should do and how we can get close to the figures that Maribor has in the case you mentioned yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118481	Dear Representative Kolerek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118482	Thank you very much. I think that when we started to form an asylum, we had to start from a zero point. We didn't start at zero, we went to Chakovec with 250 or 300 dogs, if you know what I mean. Slovenians did it, started from scratch, educated the owners, dogs that they had to be vaccinated, copied first, vaccinated, and then castrated as needed. We must now bring our owners to this level that the number of dogs in asylum is reduced just as in Maribor. We didn't start from a zero point, we started right off the big numbers, and so you can imagine now that no dog castration action was launched in Roma settlements there would be over 1,500 dogs, believe me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118483	Dear Representative Bulj has requested on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118484	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club for 10 minutes because this is a really important topic. And I'm listening here as well as the mayor and head of a local self-government who has welcomed a number of animal problems, here I'm talking about cows that no one has fed, which in winter have no food, which are bound by ropes, that die in, that simply drink sewers, but have owners. And I pointed out that, and it started to count the whole state, however, the inspector, and here is the problem with the veterinary inspection. Instead of solving the problem with that owner who was given incentives to those cattle that were kept on their own terms, they literally drank the sewerage of those cattle and sold them meat. And you know what the veterinary inspector did, punished me because as I've done so far everyone's doing it was letting it go and looking through their fingers and scurrying with that owner of the man they led astray and into thousands of troubles, which threatens traffic in that area of that cow is not just in Sinj, but I pointed out, but the inspectorate has been coming and writing punishments to me countless times. And the county of Pilateo washes its hands because it should be taken over as a city, and it can neither be taken over because the animals are not unsettled have the owner Slavko Domazet is called and who receives incentives directly to the state of Europe, so it is for USKOK, it is OLAF. And in the end, the inspectorate, of course, comes Andrija Mikulić said on the phone, listen, you give that Bula punishment anyway, he bothers us, because let's point it out. And they're still being bribed by that stinking way of functioning the country, and that's why I'm giving it here not to notice again, but to cry out. These laws nothing I don't care about the implementation because nobody cares. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118485	Of course, the break will be approved. In accordance with Article 293b. We will continue, and this will now speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the finally respected representative of Darko Saturday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118486	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague today we heard on several occasions that EU Regulation 2016/429 on transferable animal diseases and amending and repealing certain animal health acts came into force on 21 April 2021, together with a series of secondary, delegated and implementing regulations. The present Regulation is part of the new EU legislative package and gives a single animal health legislative framework replacing all current legislation in the area of animal health and abolishing more than 400 legal acts, regulations, directives and decisions, all with a view to direct and uniform application of animal health provisions in all Member States. In the Republic of Croatia, animal health is regulated by the Veterinary Act and the sublaws adopted under the same law. Due to the complexity and comprehensiveness of the area and the interconnection between the EU Regulation and secondary delegated and implementing regulations, a separate draft animal health law proposal has been developed to ensure the implementation of European regulations and to regulate national animal health provisions. This law will put the entire national legislation relating to animal health, including the eradication and control of animal diseases, the registration of labelling and traceability of animals and products of animal origin, the transport of animals and products of animal origin within the EU between EU Member States and third countries and non-commercial movements of pets out of force. This law also lays down the competent authorities and their obligations, including the conduct and determination of measures to prevent control, eradication and monitoring of diseases, the registration, labelling and traceability of animals and products of animal origin, the transport of animals and products of animal origin within the EU between EU Member States and third countries, non-commercial movements of pets, the obligation of laboratories in the field of animal health, pet and veterinarian entities and infringement provisions in all areas covered by this Regulation. The draft law creates actual assumptions for the professional and more effective implementation of the obligations of the Republic of Croatia in the field of animal health in line with the objectives of the new EU legislative framework. The HDZ Club will support this proposal of the Animal Health Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118487	Finally, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, the respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will now speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118488	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, some things just at the end of the debate to clarify. So there is no doubt that this European directive or regulation should be incorporated into our legislation, we absolutely agree, but we do not agree in high terms, I would say the people's fiscal approach which the ministry has chosen, one very difficult readable and incomprehensible bill proposal, and in fact this is what the main grudge is and what we need to fix the most. We also made some suggestions in the debate, we would like to see them built into the law by the second reading, because they don't essentially change anything or are not in a conflict with the European acquis, and we think that this law would make them much better, we're talking about chipping cats, oh, that means that the 90-day deadline from 90 days to 60 days from harming dogs, etc., etc., that we've brought out in the debate, and we think they would be a significant and qualitative shift in our legislation, so more so as we've had the opportunity to hear the full change of legislation as regards animal health. Therefore, as well as abandoning inhumane practices such as stamping, we think that it would be qualitative to correct the law and have a much better quality law in the second reading. We also plead to the promoter, in this case, the Ministry of Agriculture, that either in detail the law or its statement, or in the law to introduce a so-called article, perhaps in transitional and final provisions, that unless it gives up such a language that the ministry commits itself to one guide or instructions for breeders in order to make it more clear to them what their obligations are in accordance with this law, because believe me I am not a legal profession, but I think the lawyers would have a lot of trouble reading and interpreting this law. Therefore, to make it easier for people who are engaged in the activities of the highest degree, to grow therefore any pets, to have any hooves, cattle, domestic animals, to make it easier for them to implement this law to achieve the effect of the law, which is that it is being implemented because if we insist on such an expression, I fear that it will create a lot of problems in the implementation, and that, in the end, the inspection will have full hands of work, as a rule of punishing our citizens, and that is not the point, the meaning of the law is actually to provide healthy animals, whether pets, or pets, and I am afraid that if we insist that this goal will be avoided, thank us nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118489	In the name of the Representatives' Club, the Mosta will finally speak to the respected representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118490	Thank you very much. Here is the debate, the EU directive regulations we have included in this proposal, but I will express once again a huge dissatisfaction not only with written law, with the lack of understanding of the laws of those who object but simply with the reality, we will talk about people who live real life on the ground with these problems and obligations and responsibilities, the Pilate wash of hands from the level of the ministry, the inspectorate of veterinary inspection to all the competent and has been applied exclusively and only to local leaders is unacceptable. Yes, I'm willing to take responsibility, that the inspectorate, because I pointed out, did not punish for 20 years. No one is concerned about the cattle that are owned, who are harassed and who simply doesn't care in the centre of the town of Sinj, not in the center itself, with the very centre of the city of Sinj, no one has cared, no one has mentioned, no veterinary inspection, no Ministry of Agriculture, no one cares, we simply haven't done our homework in implementation, and there is the end and the beginning of the story. And this senseless story all day long if it stays on the story then we have a huge problem, we have a huge problem of bees, we have animal protection, pets, but if we just write it, if we still let glyphosate, we use the cidocor, if we still throw pesticides, so the bees will disappear if nobody cares about it except we're telling the story here, that's the terrain, that's the people beekeepers. If we're talking about poultry, poultry disease, well, the biggest disease is now that 5 kuna is a kilo of corn to these fins, i.e. Egg producers, so do you know that two million of us make eggs a day or so. Two million chickens we have a non-violence, you know that 600,000 this year, but a man won't make them one of the biggest producers, which is why, because it's not worth it, so we have an even bigger problem in this problem than this problem itself. However, on this very law I must say that all you wrote in the implementation is zero, nothing, there is no. I am personally due to this reaction of my own and seeking a solution where the problem has been partially solved, where these funds for shelters that the county can run for, where units of all local self-government together with the county have an obligation to have animal shelter, mainly for animals, not pets, is an obligation that local self-government has taken over and that local self-government will cost millions and millions, but we are talking about animals such as cattle, horses and other domestic animals. And if there's only one letter left on the paper... The purpose of this law, the implementation is the problem, you are aware of the State Secretary, that the Veterinary Authority is aware of and control of food mainly when we speak, here we will now follow the GMO Act, so there are 3-4 years in this mandate now in the procedure of my law on the ban on GMOs imports, so that we import through food and that animal food. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Take a look at the soybean feed that is exclusively treated with glyphosate. We import, and our pigs are going down, we're all going down, not only do we have unsettled animals on the rise, it's nowhere, we've got unsettled animals growing domestically, and we've never had less cattle and animals. That tells you everything. That in the field of all the regulations, all these directives, all these European officials, bureaucrats and all that we prescribe absolutely means nothing to the village and peasants, absolutely because the fact that we destroyed the village and now when we come to talk about this law and about animal protection, I'm talking about domestic animals now, and they're simply not going to have anything to protect them. We're free to say no to these laws because the village is extinct. He's dying for law enforcement mostly rural areas, and the Animal Protection Act will be as pointless as this one. If veterinary inspectors only punish those who warn and seek solutions, then after the meeting at the ministry I was respected by Mrs. Karacic, State Secretary, 10 times the veterinary inspection came, and I asked for a solution, me and them punishing me as mayor The responsible person, and to be silent and to be scurrying with them... [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118491	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude the debate on this point, we will vote on it when the conditions are met. and move to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Food Hygiene Act and microbiological criteria for food, second reading, P.Z.E. 255 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was submitted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Šima Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118494	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable and respected parliamentary MPs, the parliamentary representatives before you are the Final Proposal for the Food Hygiene Act and the microbiological criteria for food. In an amendment to the existing law, it was launched with the aim of harmonising its provisions with the provisions of the Law on Official Controls and other official activities carried out in accordance with the rules on food, feed for animal health and animal welfare, plant health and plant protection measures adopted in May 2021, and teaching the establishment of the State Inspectorate. Thus, in addition to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health, the State Inspectorate under this Act is a new competent authority in the area of the implementation of food hygiene policies and safety, or the competent authority in the conduct of official controls. The new law is primarily a law ensuring the implementation of European legislation through the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, by ensuring the implementation of a total of 11 regulations and transposition into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. This also ensures the implementation of European legislation that came into force after the current Food Hygiene Act and microbiological criteria were adopted in 2013. The final proposal for a law lays down the obligations of food business operators with regard to microbiological criteria which must meet the food they produce and place on the market as well as procedures in the event of a derogation from the prescribed microbiological criteria. The legal basis for the adoption of national rules in the field of food hygiene as well as the legal basis for the production and implementation of the annual monitoring plan for food of animal origin, the state plan for the monitoring of residuals in products of animal origin intended for human consumption, the programme of national monitoring for the monitoring of antimicrobial resistance in animals and in food of animal origin, the monitoring plan for the quality of the sea and shellfish on products, the areas for the re-posing of live mussels and the national programmes for salmonella control. It also unites hygiene and food safety policy in such a way that certain provisions of the Veterinary Act are included in this law, and these provisions will cease to apply in the Veterinary Law on the date of entry into force of this final proposal. In relation to first reading, fishing inspectors of the Ministry of Agriculture as persons authorised to carry out official controls have also been included in the implementation of this law with a view to strengthening the effectiveness of the performance of official controls. In addition, fines for euro infringements under the Law on the introduction of the euro as official currencies in the Republic of Croatia have been arranged. The final proposal for a law is no-technically completed or in line with the observations of the Committee on Law and according to the opinions obtained by the Authority of the State Administration. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected ladies of the parliamentary representative and the gentlemen of the parliamentary representatives before us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Food Hygiene and microbiological criteria for food through which the existing system of food safety and hygiene will be improved and the integrity of legislation in the area of food safety and hygiene will be ensured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118495	It's got a whole series of replicas, some of them have already picked up the tablet before you start talking, but let's take it in a row. The first is Honorable Representative Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118496	Thank you very much. When we talk about food, it is known that there is twice as much food in Croatia as in other EU members. The other thing about the quality of this food we can talk about, I mentioned just before the pork that is produced in other countries, we import, and the pork is fed with the GMO soybean strain that is treated exclusively with glyphosate or cidocor. And because of that, who controls it? Who controls the meat we import, which harms our cattlemen? I said example of pigs, but also all the other mainly animal food products we're just importing. Who does that? Import lobby. How is it possible that in Hungary, Austria is five times cheaper and more expensive? And whose product? Their product, through their trading chains of questionable quality, which is why we have an increase in disease, cancer, tumors, all other diseases. For what? Because we use their scissors. We sell on shelves, and nobody cares.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118497	Thank you. It doesn't have much to do with this law, but if the Secretary of State wants to say anything, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118498	Thank you, well-respected Parliamentarian Bulj. This was kind of more of a comment than a question. Of course, all food products are subject to controls and meat imported into the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118499	Representative Bulj has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118500	Dear Vice President, the knights of Jerusalem's grave, Mr. Rainer, you hurt Article 238 because you disrespected me. You said I wasn't talking about the law. Yeah, I'm talking about the law. I'm not just talking about copying your Brussels clerks who send you these directives, I'm telling you the truth. I told the naked truth. I told the truth and everyone who's telling the truth bothers you, and the truth is that an import lobby through food mainly destroys animal origin...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118501	Thank you very much. Of course it's not... Have a seat, Comrade Bull! [[You can't hear me.]] You're getting a warning. Because it has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[/Intruder Bull: What's the warning about? What are you in violation of the Rules of Procedure?]] By virtue of Article 240(1), I give you my second warning. [[What are you, a Pharaoh? You've got something in mind! You're just the same among us.]] On the basis of Article 240(2), I would like to give you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject. [[Intruder Bulj: You will not protect these import lobbys that destroy Croatian people.]] You can't yell from the scene. .../Intruder Bulj: Do not enter the word and comment. You are the chairman of every single one, and the import lobby that you favor because you do not allow the truth to be told in the Assembly has brought the village and the peasant and the health of the people.../... On the basis of Article 240(1), I give you a distance from the session Dear Representative Kirin has a replica, please. [[/Intruding Bull: You're good for GMOs, Monsantu, you're good for everyone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118502	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. The primary food producers of animal origin when using a veterinary medicinal product and other substances shall comply with the prescribed preventive measures and certain withdrawal deadlines in order to prevent the presence of residuals, of course, above the limits which are not permitted. I believe that in the Croatian market control is good for what is produced in Croatia, but please whether EU product control is adequate because it is an internal market for the EU and many products without border control are entering, and we know that all goods entering from third countries must be controlled at the border because we have information. You know that there was an accident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118503	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118504	Thank you very much. Dear Parliamentarian Kirin in the Republic of Croatia, when it comes to food control, is regularly carried out, and we are witnessing today some products are food-restricted from the shelves because they reveal a substance in quantity or illicit matter or in quantity greater than permitted. This, therefore, confirms that we care about food control on shelves, or food for human consumption, as well as food for animal nutrition.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118505	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118506	My friend Kirin, you took my replica, but we didn't get any answers. So I guess I... I didn't hear it right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I'm curious about is how to control it? You said it was controlled, but I'm interested in controlling what comes from imports and going to the market of the Republic of Croatia from other Member States. Because actually the food from the imports isn't, not only is food, it's only food from third countries. So please, I'm interested in what ways and how to control that food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118507	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118508	Thank you, well-respected Parliamentarian. So, since we are on the EU common market, we are all subject to, therefore, upholding the laws that are in certain parts of the common, which relate to the use of certain medicines used in the treatment of animals, domestic animals that go into human nutrition later on. Given that, I think you mean food for human consumption, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118509	Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118510	I thank the chairman. Dear Secretary of State I will now ask you something that is actually a decade old, but whatever it is, it's not such a long period of time that things shouldn't be clear. So, I'm talking about the aflatoxin affair where our milk producers have been canceled by the purchase of milk without any analysis. So neither was milk sampled, nor did they get the results of any official controls even for their feed or for milk alone. However, with the support of the ministry, the purchase of milk was suspended at several thousand OPGs. This is where the destruction of Croatian villages began. How could we even let that happen? Here's ten years past me. It's still not clear. We also had laws and regulations that defined how samples were taken and how the manufacturer must be informed of the results of the analysis. All of this fell into the water as if we had nothing, and the whole burden of the crisis was borne by our Croatian village, or milk producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118511	Before I give my word to the Secretary of State, the respected representative Ban Vlahek has made a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's the damage to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118512	I apologize in advance, I'm risking my warning, but only you asked the question, so I couldn't tell you. The question was not how to control food coming from EU member states, but which because import implies food coming from third countries, that was my question. So if you get a chance to answer how food is controlled. Thank you. For people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118513	As you know, unfortunately, I must give you a warning. You have two warnings, be careful. A reply to the replica of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118514	Thank you very much. Dear Parliamentarian Vukovac, I really don't know how the control of aflatoxins in milk was carried out 10 years ago, and I also find it unthinkable that someone refused to accept that milk unless there really is evidence that it contains aflatoxins. That's all I can tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118515	Dear Representative Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118516	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the HD, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The implementation of this law is not yet publicly prescribed powers between the institutions of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health and the State Inspectorate. In order to avoid the possible transfer of responsibility from one ministry to another and the situation that everyone is responsible, and in reality no one is actually responsible, how did you imagine to regulate it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118517	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118518	So thank you very much for asking. The allocation of additional responsibilities or transactions between the State Inspectorate and the Ministry of Agriculture will be further regulated by sublegal acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118519	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118520	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, the adoption of this law ensures the implementation of EU legislation with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, and the adoption of this law will allow for the adoption of national regulations and regulations. The aim of course is to ensure that safe and healthy proper food is placed on the market of the Republic of Croatia, while ensuring a smooth continuation of the turnover and trade in food of animal origin within the common market. Realising that insecure food poses a global threat, so my question to you is, do we have enough human resources to control it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118521	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118522	Thank you very much for asking. Since in the process of passing laws, the State Inspector has not declared that additional financial resources are needed, we assume that he has sufficient human capacity to implement this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118523	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118524	It is absolutely certain that food safety is very important for consumers, and this law requires it, but whether it is possible for the owners of slaughterhouses, and we know how important livestock and meat production are for us, how much they have the opportunity to transform and adapt to new conditions prescribed by this law, especially since these conditions or criteria are very high, perhaps among the highest in Europe. So those slaughterhouses are in a rather invisible position, and so are we consumers who want to spend Croatian meat.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118525	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118526	Thank you very much. Therefore, the implementation of competitions for small flexible and mobile slaughterhouses is under way, which will allow for the widespread spread of slaughterhouses and thus enable our farmers to essentially carry out slaughtering their animals in their holdings, thus making them available on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118527	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118528	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, teaching on a colleague who's actually referred to a replica and what I was thinking, so maybe you can fill in the answer. Namely, the tender prescribed for investment in small slaughterhouses is acceptable users of natural and legal persons, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises that have an approved facility registered for the processing of agricultural products. How will you actually ensure such a competition that it is really available to small and micro and medium-sized enterprises if you state that big companies are also acceptable and who will actually be identified as having priority because we know that investments in small, medium and micro-enterprises should be a priority of the ministry's action?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118529	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118530	Thank you very much. I think it's in the very competition that they're prioritized micro, small and medium relative to large so that in such a way they'll get a larger number of points and they'll be priority in that competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118531	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118532	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Food safety is definitely one of the most important topics and here are more colleagues already and debated in fact and took my replica in some way, but then I'd take advantage of it and I'd say we had a Croatian Food Agency, now we've brought it together with the Agriculture Agency. How much can we actually talk about food safety when we talk about imports from third countries because the EU should not be a problem, so control, certification, etc. are the same, but when we talk about third countries we can? And what does the ministry do specifically to minimise the import of food that is harmful or that does not meet the criteria that are otherwise in Croatia or the EU?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118533	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118534	Thank you very much. We have partly already answered this question, so we have indeed been witnessing lately to regularly control what is also the result of these numerous withdrawals of products from shelves, which I primarily think of the agricultural agency for, the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food which plays a key role in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118535	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118536	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Will the little OPGs have any problems with this law, or will they be able to respect it? Here, on a very simple example, Mrs. Poirot. Marija from Bedekovčina has a small OPG, has turkeys, has shrimps, and there is also a beautiful rural tourism. Will she have any problems, had or had no HasAP system in the sale there? Will she be able to meet all the provisions of this Law in the future and ultimately have some meaning for her commercial business? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118537	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118538	Thank you very much. This Law really relaxes the measures in some way precisely because of the examples you have set, that it is easier for these people on their OPGs to meet these criteria that are set so that they can, after all, sell products on their own doorstep.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118539	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118540	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. The hygiene of food is important to us, but we have also repeatedly stressed through the debate that it is important to relieve our farmers, to set up conditions that will be understandable, which will be acceptable and applicable, and what is a key question is whether through this Law we might correct some of the mistakes that we have made in the past because it seems that during the negotiations we are in this great desire to adopt all the rules as soon as possible may be too strict for our farmers, while, for example, in Austria, you can also have on the same estate the production of the farm and the slaughterhouse and the processing capacity, in our case, this is not the case, so here we have much more work to do to correct these mistakes. In this law, I see you're proposing some regulations that should relax the whole situation, so... What's the outcome? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118541	State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118542	Thank you very much. I agree with you that there may indeed have been some measures in the pre-accession negotiations when entering the EU that eliminated a certain part of the production, but here I hope that this Law will also have a certain part, so to speak, of the injustice that was then done, correct and that it will relax and sell on the house threshold, i.e. the management similar to the Austrian model.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118543	Honorable representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118544	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, I always wonder, when it is announced that it is being withdrawn from the shelves of a particular food product that does not meet the criteria of food safety, whether in Croatia we have consumed a product of the same type, which has not been sampled before and which has not passed the analysis to determine the malfunction of that food. Can we actually be safe in Croatia when we buy food products that do not have what is most like ethylene oxide and its previous, aluminium in the food itself, can we be sure of the safety of such food? Here, let's say Ferrero pulled himself out of the shelves for a precautionary measure of Kinder Surprise Maxi. That's probably what our kids consumed before that. Can we be sure of ourselves and our children when we consume these food products off the shelves? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118545	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118546	Thank you very much for asking. For the third time, we are already partially answering the same question, so whether we can be absolutely sure, probably something is moving, and we are eating something that is not safe, what is certain is that controls are strengthening and that more and more such non-compliant products are withdrawing from our shelves.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118547	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Marijana Petir, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118548	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Director, MPs and MPs. At its 69th session, the Committee on Agriculture discussed the Final Proposal for the Food Hygiene Act and the microbiological criteria for food as a home working body. In the debate there is a positive assessment of the complementarity of the article. 10th century 17 providing for the possibility of adopting a regulation that would allow small food business entities to reduce the frequency of sampling related to microbiological criteria. It has been warned that the deadline for its, but also the adoption of other sublaws should be shortened, it has been said that the non-acceptation of most proposals presented in the debate on the proposal for a law, on the grounds that it has not regulated the EU as well as, for example, the period of time of frozen meat or that imports do not consider food placed on the market from other Member States and are therefore not subject to national controls, not acceptable. As many slaughterhouses have been closed before EU entry due to non-compliance with the conditions for work, it has been said that construction, reconstruction or equipment of small slaughterhouses should take care of the territorial component of this support, and given that in the Republic of Croatia there are areas in which slaughterhouses are largely remote, inaccessible or excessive transport procedures. An inquiry was also asked about the possibility of financing the construction of a game slaughterhouse, to stop the export of game meat to neighbouring countries, and an indication was requested of the problem of the duration of frozen meat and asked about the human resources of the National Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia for all the tasks put into its jurisdiction by this act. The process of amending and supplementing the Regulation on the flexibility of conditions for small entities in food business is under way, and in the next two years other sublegal acts will be fully harmonised, the applicant's representative replied. It also reported that the permanent representation of the Republic of Croatia to the Member States of the Union has submitted a request for the period of frozen meat and that this question is not regulated by other Member States, according to the answers received. The Consumer Food Information Act regulates the issue of food labelling, duration deadlines, as well as mandatory and voluntary food information. The categorisation of food-based facilities began in 2008. To improve and adapt these facilities, the criteria set out were used by IPARD and SAPARD, and a transitional period until 2015 was provided for their alignment, it responded and as the main objective of the competition called for, listed the coverage of all Croatian areas by the slaughterhouse capacity. After the debate was held, the committee voted 6 votes in favour, 1 vote abstention decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Food Hygiene Act and microbiological criteria for food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118549	Thank you. I am opening the debate and the first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists will speak to the respected representative Darko Klasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118550	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. A number of affairs associated with food from aflatoxins in milk to cow's madness, bird flu, swine fever and infected horsemeat have led to a rise in consumer mistrust in the safety of food sold in Europe. Therefore, from day to day, consumer interest protection is growing and consumer demand regarding the quality and safety of the food they buy is on the other hand. Consumers want to know as much about the food they buy and consume on a daily basis for both health security and choice. In Croatia, consumer interests are protected primarily by the Food Act, which at national level determines the competent authorities and their tasks, the obligations of food business operators as well as official controls, administrative measures and infringements. However, there is a certain disturbance in our market between manufacturers and traders, in which laws are often not respected and each party sets its own rules instead of implementing them. Therefore, the future needs to focus on strict implementation and transparent application of existing legislation. It is an obligation for each EU Member State to ensure that EU law is implemented in its national field. As regards the Directives, Member States must transpose them into national legislation and inform the European Commission thereof. In particular, this law allows for the harmonisation of the implementation of ten EU regulations governing the issue of food hygiene and micro-biological criteria for food that are directly applicable in all Member States in the same way. In doing so, the national legislator has a wide discretionary authority of autonomous regulation, but necessarily establishing a control system that enables identification, assessment and establishment, control of chemical, physical and biological hazards in food that are important for food safety at all stages of food production and processing and distribution, i.e. So-called HasAP system. This system is an instrument to assist entities in food business that would achieve a higher standard of food safety and obligations at the level of all Member States. In this way, operators are allowed to produce one such document in food business on the basis of the type, the scale of their production, and the established control and critical control points. The consumer thus becomes convinced that he buys healthy food, meat, meat products that meet legal requirements, and has passed controls and are suitable for human consumption. On the other hand, despite the European Commission's best intentions, there have also been weaknesses in such a system within the EU that rely largely on the self-control of producers. Why? As food business operators depend on annual production capacity, they further reduce the sampling frequency relative to the microbiological criteria, even if the results of previous microbiological analyses are satisfactory over a given period. In this way, they are allowed to reduce the costs of their business, but this indirectly leads to a deterioration in food safety control. In order for Croatia to become more alive in this law, our fundamental priority must be to comply with existing regulations with the provisions of other regulations, taking into account that a new competent authority has been established, the State Inspectorate. This law still does not clearly provide for jurisdiction between relevant institutions, so it is necessary to avoid the possible transfer of responsibility from one to the other or third administrative body, and better cooperation and communication to improve the existing system in order to ensure that the food control system is as effective as possible for the health of citizens in that segment. Food safety is certainly one of the more demanding areas covered by chapter 12 - Food safety, veterinary, and phytosanitary policies. In any case, the proposed law further strengthens and balances food safety and hygiene policies in the Republic of Croatia, harmonizes Croatia with European legislation, ensuring that our citizens continue to consume safe and healthy food of animal and plant origin, which is why we support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118551	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club will now speak for the respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118552	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The safety of food is certainly one of the topics that gathers us a lot in public discourse, but also because of the clear fact that unfortunately we have had a lot of opportunities to read about how unhealthy we eat, how we import food that is old, which does not meet all the criteria, and unfortunately some of our citizens are also forced to buy such food of suspicious origin because of its low price, and their weak purchasing powers. However, in any case, the law that lies ahead should provide a higher standard of food safety, but at the same time try not to complicate the life of our hosts, those who are engaged in food preparation, etc. Therefore, I would say that the addition of Article 10(7) is positive. It provides for the possibility of adopting a regulation that would allow small food business entities to reduce the frequency of sampling related to microbiological criteria not to put this at risk to our health, but precisely because small entities that cannot be so competitive and who do not have such capacity to be damaged in their business, and yet to maximise food safety in this segment. Unfortunately, I have to say that between the two readings, we saw that most of the proposals tabled in the debate on the bill were not accepted with the reason that neither the EU regulated it nor any EU member states. For example, we are talking about the period of frozen meat or that imports are not considered food placed on the market from other Member States and are therefore not subject to national controls. This would not be a problem, as I said in the replica of the secretary of state, if food comes from EU member states so it should be safe, meet all the criteria it meets and food produced in Croatia. However, when it comes to imports from third countries, we already have a problem and therefore a particular problem can be opened, especially due to inconsistencies in the implementation of food safety and food hygiene standards in certain Member States. I would also point out here the problem of constructing reconstruction or equipping small slaughterhouse objects. In this regard, care should be taken of the territorial distribution of such projects to be financed by the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately taught by experience so far, we have often financed projects that did not have any significance or strategic significance as they should have. I'll give you just one example, there's a big water drain that was supposed to be used to irrigate Velishkovci-Gat from how many pumps that were supposed to draw water from Drava are currently in operation only one or two and supplying drinking water to the town of Belisce and only part of the town of Belisce, the other is supplied from another water supply site. Why am I telling you this? We entered this big project that was funded by Croatian money without having previously determined how much there is actually a need for such something in this area. We've built a mega-project that doesn't serve anything in the end. Therefore, care should now be taken about the territorial representation of small slaughterhouses, also building a slaughterhouse for game to stop the export of meat, meat of gamers to neighbouring countries, but also so that slaughterhouses are not too remote for some parts of Croatia because if they are too far away then you simply do not get paid, logistics costs become too high and do not pay to drive to those slaughterhouses. They should therefore be relatively easily accessible to all parts of Croatia where necessary. We also had the opportunity to hear that in the process were amendments and additions to the Regulation on the flexibility of conditions for small entities in food business, but we do not know what that means in the procedure is. So in the process it can be that it's already at a high stage and at the end, and it might be that we've just started initial consultations or what that means. I think that would be very important for small food business entities as I said at the beginning of the debate. Also, the argument that other Member States have not regulated something in this case, in particular, the period of freezing meat, does not prevent us from regulating something. So we need to understand one fact, which is that the EU is setting some minimum, minimum below which you can't go, but above the minimum you can always do. And unfortunately, we've had very bad experiences with frozen food, I think it was imported from Brazil and so on. and frozen meat specifically, so I think we should really or should have thought about introducing these regulations. The Food Information Act also regulates the issue of food labelling, duration deadlines, as well as mandatory and voluntary food information. But I think we should consider amending the law in question and raise those standards. Unfortunately, we often give our consumers too little information, and in the case of frozen meat, I say there are no deadlines. Unfortunately, I have to conclude that the proposer had no ear for most of the proposals and suggestions that applied to this law, too many of them to fix them with amendments so that this kind of law we don't think will be good quality in some segments, especially in raising food hygiene standards to microbiological criteria for food that I think would benefit our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118553	On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, Boška Ban Vlahek will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118554	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The final proposal of this law as much as heard and several times this fact has been challenged, I will point out once again that it is another one in a series of delays at the Ministry of Agriculture. Why do I say that? Because this law is three years late for compliance, 2019. The State Inspectorate was founded, we are now in July 2022, and only now is the law harmonized with the State Inspectorate. The SDP club last year warned of a significant delay in harmonising food safety regulations, and this was officially confirmed. And not only that, until now, there are still no clear competences between institutions. The new law states that it will replace and put off the force currently in force, and given the formation of the State Inspectorate, which is a new competent body with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health in the area of food safety and hygiene. I'd like to draw attention to the article. 5. Proposals governing the direct placing of food on the market for the purpose of implementing Article 1st century 3. Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 which provides for Member States to establish under their national law, rules governing the direct supply of small quantities of primary products to which the manufacturer supplies the final consumer or local retail facility directly supplying the final consumer. The primary product, definition of the same regulation as the primary production product, including the products of soil, livestock, fisheries and fisheries. In Croatian legislation, primary production is regulated through the Agriculture Act, where primary agricultural production is defined as production defined as the production of the product of biliary or livestock products listed in Annex 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU without further action to change the nature of these products. In the sub-legislative act, the Regulation on the Registration and Authorisation of Objects and on the Registration of Entities in Food Business, the direct supply of small quantities of primary products to which the manufacturer supplies the end-user or local retail facility directly supplying the end-user is regulated only for food of animal origin, although that Regulation, as well as for art. 5 The proposal refers to all food from primary production of plant and animal origin. Art. The 75th century 4 of the Law on official controls and other official activities carried out in accordance with the rules on food, food for animals, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection products, it is prescribed that operators in the food business that are family holdings, which sell primary products at the place of production, on stands and benches on the markets, on the stands and benches outside the markets, on the stands and benches within commercial centres and institutions and on mobile sales are not obliged to enroll themselves in the registers of the State Inspectorate and there are no prescribed provisions concerning the direct supply of small quantities of primary products provided by the producer of the final consumer or local retail facility. The conclusion is that, despite the fact that primary production is prescribed in various laws, primary food producers of animal origin in the Republic of Croatia are not adequately allowed to place on the market these foods, let alone short supply chains as such. Also, I draw attention to the article. 7 which lays the groundwork for the adoption of national measures as enabled by Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 and Regulation (EC) No 853/2004 and derogation from the requirement laid down in Article 2(2) of Regulation (EC) No 853/2004. Regulation No 7 of the European Parliament and of the Council 2074/2005 for traditional food producers. For producers of traditional meat products, no specific conditions have been allowed in the Republic of Croatia so far which do not apply to all other approved facilities with adjustment conditions and are fully authorised. I would draw attention to the absolute novelty in the food regulations as indicated in the article. 10 pages 3 and 4 of the proposals relating to the obligation to deliver analytical reports on the total number of samples and the number of samples positive for salmonella and campilbacter prints for which food business entities have independently financed sampling under their own self-control. A similar system in the EU has only Italy and Slovenia. This is likely to be about reducing the costs of official sampling in such a way as to collect data from food business entities themselves, which is good for the state to reduce costs, however, given that it is in art. 21st century 1st wheel. 6 Proposal, a prescribed criminal provision for entities which do not provide for the hygiene process of food production and placing on the market and handling it according to the food criteria set out in Annex 1 to Regulation (EC) No 2073/2005, it is doubtful whether the said provision forces the entities to report themselves. I also draw attention to the fact that food security is not at an envious level, and this shows several of the situations that we have already discussed. The withdrawal of a whole range of products due to illicit additives, in fresh meat in Croatia, has been determined to increase the amount of dangerous shiga-toxin caused by Escherichia coli, then recent chicken affair, but today we can often read that the products are withdrawn, but nobody cares. Perhaps if I say that some of these products will eat our children too, perhaps ruling to think whether they are doing well. Since this law is in the second reading, I expected at least some more specific guidelines, at least in the area of food safety. But since the text of the law is almost identical, we can conclude that food safety is still not a priority. Unfortunately for all of us, this law absolutely doesn't change anything. Medically correct food must be available to all people at all times and physically and economically. A preventive action is important because a large number of diseases, even 40% of onco-diseases can be prevented. The task of all of us is to reduce the amount of risks that affect health and those that we bring in with food, and not to preserve the health of the population. The Ministry of Agriculture, as one of the competent authorities in the field of food safety policy, has a strategic objective of ensuring that food is healthy for consumers in the Republic of Croatia. How does the Ministry do that? So it doesn't work on time. It does not pass laws that are reasonable and what it proposes, it rejects every new law and does nothing in fact to make it appear to worry, except that neither will further strengthen and unite food safety policy, nor will this Law give us confidence to eat safe and healthy food. Finally, I would like to point out once again that such a proposed legislative framework and by laying down rules that are not clearly hampered above all, investment and business of small and medium-sized family holdings and entrepreneurs due to the lack of information and inability to monitor all these legal changes. It is time to change the approach to this topic and the legislative framework to be as simple as possible and to be brought for the sake of manufacturers and consumers, not just to fulfil the form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118555	We will now return to our law, the final proposal of the Food Hygiene Act and microbiological criteria for food and, on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, will be the first to speak to the respected representative, Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118556	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, let's go back after this little break and go through this law a little bit. In the part of the law in which the concepts are defined, the entity shall be explained as any natural or legal person responsible for the animals, including for a limited period other than the pet holder and other veterinarian. It's already in the beginning that this is a very, very, very broad and inaccurate explanation, which means that it's the person responsible for the animals, among other things, in a limited period of time. We don't define responsibility, nor a period of responsibility, but that's just how it's listed. But the question that Mr. Mr. Gristle would ask if he were here, is all mentioned Mrs. Maria from Bedekovina who has an O.P.G. on which she raises ducks and turkeys of the subject in the food business. I guess so. If so, the respected lady who has an OPG in a small Zagorje place shall also be subject to an article. 1st century of this law, which states, “in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Law. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2004 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 and Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 (OJ L 298, 30.12.2004, p. 1). 1st century, find the following explanations. Food business entities are directly prescribed, established, implemented and maintained a secret procedure or procedures based on the HACCP principles. Now in St. 2., it is precisely explained that these are the principles of HACCP, so all of this would have to be implemented by Mrs. Barbara, Mary or Ankica. Determining any dangers that must be prevented, removed or reduced to an acceptable level. Again the incredible inaccuracy of identifying all dangers. What does that mean? Does Mrs. Maria have to introduce a missile shield above her O.P.G.? So the dangers from which I ask you, a very broad description. Alinea b to determine critical control points at the level or levels at which control is essential for preventing or removing hazards or for reducing it to an acceptable level. Determination of critical limits at critical control points which separate acceptable from unacceptable for the prevention, removal or reduction of identified hazards. This part of the law can be calmly rewritten in our debate Tuesday when we talked about terrorism, here's to standing like this in a provision to prevent terrorism completely without a problem. So wide, vague, inaccurate. And of course what Mr. Secretary of State told us here is easy and simple and should help the O.P.G.'s. Personally, I don't think so, so once again, of course, through the amendments, and through a series of times I have to say, we're going to address the minister with a desire to explain it a little more precisely. As for some of the following items of the law, we will also be able to pass through them. Art. 6th century 3. speaks of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health in charge of each part-round encourages the development of national guides for good hygiene practice and application of the HACCP system principle. So, in art. 3. century 6 says the guidebooks of Article 1 of this article should be regularly aligned with the rules on food and new knowledge of food or the environment risks. The expression regularly does not have any precise timing. It is not the same as regularly brushing teeth or regularly visiting a pulmologist, and it means one and the other, regularly, but we can go to a pulmologist every five years, and if we follow our teeth every five years, we will have serious problems. So, in the amendment here, we will suggest that the word be added regularly, and at least every two years, since it is necessary to set a precise timing, because the deadline for making food industry guides must be set by time. The food industry of the branch is very rapidly developing and plementating many scientific knowledge, so new guides should definitely come at a maximum of two years, preferably more often. Art. The second entity in the food business is obliged to notify the agriculture ministry by written means of any amendment relating to the site after registration within 30 days of the change occurred. And here, of course, is the article very vaguely written, which means every change? So should the ministry be tipped off that we changed the front door, should we say we put in a new chimney, I guess not? Therefore, we will propose the addition of this paragraph, so it should be noted that any change which changes the conditions and methods of dealing with food or the production of it must be submitted to the above-mentioned report. This must certainly be the case for people who will come under this law to do so to some extent more clearly. Just please there's a very, very, very lot of matter here so get through all this pretty hard... is that art. The animals intended for slaughter may only be dispatched to the slaughterhouse if there is a written guarantee from the owners that the animals have not been treated with prohibited substances and if the animals have not been treated with prohibited substances and in the event of treatment that the prescribed period of withdrawal has passed. Therefore, the basic original appearance of this item is not written in itself, but simply says that the owner or owner should have a guarantee. What kind of guarantee is that? I suppose, however, the law should specify it precisely in writing, certified, credible, or in this case, we can freely say whether it is an oral guarantee. So we asked a man if your animals were treated with banned substances. He said they weren't and now it's okay for us. So that law must be precise. So we have a pretty good set of amendments. What is the absolute fact of this law is that food quality should be carefully looked after as a man who, in his own time, had some small attempts at catering. I know how much price differences are if you try to get, say, fresh chicken grown in Croatia, how much more expensive than the catastrophic quality of frozen chicken that in this case, at least my most often comes from Brazil, and it always has to be asked a question, and we, when we used frozen chicken from Brazil exclusively in the afternoon until the place worked we went to try to prepare it to see if we could even try to serve our guests. We bought it, it's a very large one box of nearly 15 kilos. We've prepared about 300, 400 grams, and I must personally admit that the rest of us have thrown away because it's simply so low in quality that we'd be ashamed to put it on the table at our bar. I suppose that such a frozen chicken today makes quite a part of the menus of Croatian restaurants who, however, want to boost their profit margin, reach for cheaper raw materials, cheaper foods, which is certainly not good and does not represent any shift forward or in the quality of the diet or, of course, fair commercial practice. In any case, the Department of Homeland Movement Club has some amendments here, so we'll see how they'll go because it's almost nomotechnical or at least some meaningful changes in the law that I don't see any reason why none of them will be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118557	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Marijana Petir, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118558	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs. We all need food for life, and for the food we eat we want to be quality, healthy and safe at all stages of the production process from field to table. Food safety rests on timely identification of hazards and risks, and the health correctness of food has been guaranteed that food will not endanger the health of a person who consumes it, if it is consumed according to its purpose, or the health correct food does not contain infectious substances and will not cause damage, injury or disease. The key principle is that anyone working in a food business must ensure that food is treated in a hygienic and safe manner without contamination of the dangers that are transmitted by food at each stage of the production process. This is achieved by good hygiene practices and procedures based on the principles of risk analysis and the determination of critical control points. During 2020, the 27 EU Member States reported 3086 food-induced epidemics as 47% lower than the previous year and 20 017 cases of human disease, down from 61.3%, indicating the effectiveness of the food safety control system. Salmonella has remained as the most common cause of food-borne epidemics in recent years. Of course, salmonella in eggs and egg products, norovirus in cancers, shells, mollusks and products containing either fish and fish products were the most common causes of food-borne epidemics reported in 2020 in the EU. Since we were little, we've been taught to wash our hands before eating, not to eat food off the floor, to watch out for the period of some of the products we buy. Over the years, we have also learned how to read food declarations, how to store food so that it does not break down, or how, and when we recognize that food should not be eaten especially during summer and high heat. In addition to exceptional importance, the pandemic warned us about how ideal food can be for the growth of microorganisms and thus the transporter of diseases. There are a whole series of infectious diseases that are transmitted by food, or food poisoning, without even being aware of them. And these diseases are not reserved only for hygienic questionable conditions or other parts of the world. In fact, the Western world is prone to the occurrence of these diseases as a result of cultivation, production and transport procedures, as well as food handling. We know that food security is one of the EU's most important priorities, affects all citizens, is closely linked to trade policies. But we are also aware of the difference between the standards that European farmers must respect and those implemented by third country producers. This is why these trade agreements have been discussed more and more frequently. But we also know that as a Member State, we are obliged to bring our legal framework into line with the European framework, and this act ensures the implementation of a total of 10 European regulations and transposes one directive, and puts out of force the applicable law and aligns the division of competences and activities in the exercise of official controls in relation to the new law on official controls. The legal basis for the adoption of national provisions in the areas of direct supply to small quantities of primary products produced on the own holding for the supply of end-user or local retail facility supplied by small consumers is also provided. This act also removes the area of monitoring of residuals in food of animal origin from the Veterinary Act. Like I said, food hygiene is important. But it is also important to put in front of our farmers conditions that are understandable, acceptable, and applicable, allowing them to have a farm, slaughterhouse, and processing in the same yard, as other members of the Union have done. On this very trail and on the trail of our debates that we have been having for a long time thanks to the Ministry of Agriculture for supplementing the article. 10th New Article 17, which provides for the possibility of adopting a regulation that would allow small food business entities to reduce the frequency of sampling related to microbiological criteria and draw attention once again to the time limit of 2.g. is intended for the adoption of that Regulation, but other regulations as I have already pointed out, and in the first reading it is still a little too long and we hope that this job will be completed in a short time. One part of the proposal tabled during the first reading was not accepted on the grounds that certain issues did not regulate either the EU, so neither we nor what comes from other Member States is considered to be imports and is not subject to national controls. That's true, of course, but there's always the other side of the medal. If the EU hasn't regulated something, it doesn't mean that we don't need to regulate it despite the fact that the EU is our common market. If we suspect that the food placed before our consumers is potentially harmful to their health, we have the right to exercise national controls. We therefore believe that our citizens and their well-being should be priority in the adoption of laws and in the act of competent services, and the mentality that usually prevails that something cannot be replaced by mentality as well as the fact that a tender for construction, reconstruction and equipment of small slaughterhouses is being opened on July 1st, as well as the purchase of mobile slaughterhouses with a total value of 20 million kuna and a support intensity of 50% and the value of projects ranging from 15 to 200 thousand euros. I would like to congratulate the publication of this invitation to tender and I would like to draw attention to the paying agency and the Ministry of Agriculture to include, in the selection criteria, the territorial component of this support, and in particular to the fact that we have areas in the Republic of Croatia where slaughterhouses are inaccessible because of their high distance, or the transport procedure, for example, is too complicated. A survey conducted last year by the European Consumer Excellence Centre from Zagreb on 5,465 people showed the topic of food safety for consumers as the most important topic. The second topic was to protect health and family. Through their food comments, consumers in Croatia pointed out that they did not feel safe enough, not sufficiently informed, or educated when it comes to the protection of their rights as a consumer of food they use on a daily basis. In addition to these food consumers, they point out that information on the traceability of food is still low, and they particularly view the worrying problem of traders' relationship with consumers when they say a variety of so-called products. the reductions place fruit and vegetables of questionable quality, meat and meat processing with a near-term expiry date, dairy baker's products with ingredients polluted with various chemical substances and pesticides, milk and dairy products from third countries, and there they list many other examples. That this is not the case only for us is researching a similar theme called “What Is Most Important to You When You Buy Food?” during December 2020 by the European Commission. This study shows that other Europeans are thus the most important food safety factor in choosing food. Although this could sometimes not be concluded in the media, consumers are also in the EU and in Croatia are more concerned about food safety than about environmental issues, for example. This further confirms the survey by the Independent Norwegian Risk Insurance and Management Group, which, on a sample of 4,500 surveyed consumers around the world, assessed food and health safety issues more important than wider external factors such as the environment and social aspects. Given all this, it's very important that we pay more attention to food safety than we've ever seen before, and we believe that this law will help, which is why our representative club will support it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118559	In the name of the Representatives' Club for Fair Croatia will be spoken by the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118560	Thank you. The final proposal for this law provides a legal basis for the adoption of national rules in the field of food hygiene, as well as a legal basis for the production and implementation of primarily the Annual Food Monitoring Plan for Animal origin, the State plan for the monitoring of residences in products of animal origin intended for human consumption, the State Monitoring Programme for the monitoring of antimicrobial resistance in animals and animal origin, the previous years this plan has been adopted by the basis of the Law on official controls carried out in accordance with animal food regulations, animal health and animal welfare, and the monitoring plan for the quality of the sea and shellfish in the production areas and areas for the re-posing of live clams and national programmes of salmonella control. As regards the provisions of this law, I would like to point out that the HACCP system is a control system aimed at establishing critical points of production and avoiding the possibility of food contamination at these critical points. HACCP system is not a given pattern, but a guide for manufacturers to improve control. This system is preventive and it does not have to be uniform at all. Over the past years, manufacturers have paid dearly for the establishment of a system to finally see from manufacturers outside the Republic of Croatia that it can be both much simpler and much cheaper. Let's not make a big deal out of the HACCP system, because as with any prenormation, it eventually loses its meaning, and then they don't respect the basics. As regards Regulations 852 and 853 of 2004 I would like to point out that they have been the same for almost 20 years and that these regulations have allowed a number of small producers to place their place on the market without having to have large processing facilities. We need such a tailored system to bring small producers back to the markets and into the... system itself. It would be wise, for example, to allow lamb producers on the islands to use small slaughterhouses, which are all present in Austria, Germany and which consist of two rooms can freely store their lambs and place them in a local restaurant. Let's not ask for a condition no longer to do anything, but let's do it once and for all, in cooperation with the producers themselves, and not against them. I still find it unnecessary and difficult to ask a farmer who owns cattle to have spare vehicles and so on. Because he doesn't need it, and especially if the restaurant is a few kilometers away, and it's not more than 30 minutes away in the season, or if it can't, then at least give one farmer a chance to have a slaughterhouse and to slaughter the other cattle and bring them to the restaurant, but then limit the number of such gifts for a year to make that system different from the big one. I'd like to make a few thoughts about the topic of short food supply chains. I must at first clarify certain confusions that are present in public. Namely, the term short supply chains means a set of trade partnership relationships and transactions that deliver food products from manufacturer to consumer and is not related to distance, while the concept of local food includes distances from place of production to consumer. So then I welcome the opening of the Ministry of Agriculture to producers with a theme of small and local slaughterhouses and I think it's precisely now when we open these topics that, with minimal and realistic conditions, we then allow manufacturers to place their products from these same slaughterhouses in local shops and local restaurants within 100km. And I don't have to mention that there is still one part of the problem in the following regulations, I will here now deliberately single out the regulation on the registration and approval of objects and the registration of entities in the food business, which states that the facility for slaughtering small dippers on holdings has been the origin of an establishment located on its own holding, where the small dips, so pigs, goats, sheep, farmed game, or lived for at least three months. In the case of pig or lambs, up to 20kg of weight, they are born on their own holding and slaughtering up to 12 conditional throats per year intended exclusively for the preparation of food in their own tourist offer, while the definition for a poultry and lagomorph slaughter facility on the holding of origin does not require that poultry and lagomorphs from the holding of origin be used to prepare food in their own tourist offer. In particular, this means that the breeder of lambs or sheep or other small dippers must have slaughter and his own tourist offer, such as a restaurant, which very often, for example, on the Adriatic, and especially on the islands is not the case. Otherwise, the lambs must be sent to an approved slaughterhouse that they do not have on the island, and then it collects and makes the impossible concept of local food. This illogicality would be very easy to resolve by eradicating the provisions of its own tourist offer of concrete provisions, and would ultimately be more consistent with eu flexibility. Furthermore, if we get off the island and the sea and come to the northern part of rural Croatia, we face another illogicality. Namely, the same regulation defines that the establishment for slaughtering poultry and lagomorphs on the holding has originating an establishment located on an holding where poultry or lagomorphs are grown and grown in that facility is allowed to slaughter up to 5,000 units of their own animals annually. The animal unit is determined by the following calculation of the chicken, chicken, grown one beak of feathered game represents one unit, duck two, turkey, goose, lagomorph three units, resulting in someone who has an object for slaughtering poultry and lagomorph on the holding of origin being able to grow and slaughter 2,500 ducks or 1,666 turkeys, which again becomes problematic that the average size of ownership in northern Croatia is 1.62 to 2 hectares, which then includes gardens and Oranices and vineyards, so the average OPG has about 500 beaks for reasons that it does not have a larger area for diet and discharge. Furthermore, breeding ducks and turkeys lasts seven months, so that it cannot have two cycles a year at all but one cycle. It's the same important thing. And not to mention that the feather is a seasonal product and then prepares for Christmas, which means that an OPG that has one cycle per year needs in ten days how long the sale takes to cut 1,666 turkeys and 160 turkeys per day. That's completely impossible. The annual cost of this plant only for the analyses we are talking about today is about 8,000 kuna, which means that the cost of having a slaughterhouse is more than one fifth of total income, and then if we add to that labour and sales costs, provided that all 500 survived the cost goes up to three-fifths of total earnings and eventually in accordance with Article. In the 40th Regulation, he must not sell it in trade, catering and other tourist facilities or social care institutions, health care, education, etc., which means that he remains only on the doorstep and on the markets, but only on consumers, and the whole problem would be solved if, under these same conditions, he/she were allowed to slaughter poultry to other local breeders and then, of course, he/she would open the need for the employment of several people. And in conclusion, I can understand the objective that the Ministry of Agriculture advocates, which is how they state that the implementation of these plans or programmes ensure that only safe and healthy food of animal origin is placed on the market, but by following events in the Croatian village and the relationship of institutions to it can only conclude that we have clearly gone towards ensuring high criteria and quality which is fine, but absolutely at the expense of quantity unlike some EU member states, for example, Poland and thus devastated the Croatian village, and I believe that I can rightly say driven many young people out of the country, which is otherwise unacceptable to me. And lastly, I will single out examples, of the suspension of milk delivery by inspectors who, for example, would have been resident from detergents to whom milk producers had washed their milk systems, whether it was a solution to suspend the delivery and thus stop the only flow of money to cattle farmers whose obligations to the state and suppliers continued to flow, where it was expected that such a milk producer would settle their obligations, were known to destroy them, but all the boots by their torture were trampled, it was not okay, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118561	We are going to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to a respected representative of Boška Ban Vlahek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118562	Thank you very much. Medically correct food must be available to all people at all times and physically and economically. As I said, preventive action is important because a large number of diseases can even be prevented by 40% of the illnesses. The task of all of us is to reduce the amount of risks that affect health, including those that we bring in with food in order to preserve the health of the population. With a view to ensuring a high level of protection of human health and consumer interests in relation to food, the Ministry of Agriculture and the AKD in May 2020. They developed the mobile app “Food”. It is a free app that allows citizens, during 24 hours of all days of each year, information on the withdrawal of products or the recall of products from the market for which there is a risk or a risk of human and animal health or may have a harmful effect on the environment and are on the market for a period of time. It is intended for all citizens to provide simple and timely information on non-compliant products which are subject to market recalls and are placed on the market for a period of time. The application offers two menus, a fast alarm system for food and food for animals in which the menu is informed at EU level and the Ministry of Agriculture in which the menu contains information relating only to the Croatian market. The application also contains educational information such as what it means to increase the amount of lead in fish and how it affects human health, what to do if meat is infected with salmonella, and similar information that interests citizens. What I noticed, a very small number of citizens know about the app "Food". The latest information in the rapid alarm system for food and feed at EU level dates back to 1 July 2022. while the last information in the October 2021 menu of the Ministry of Agriculture is. What I'm curious about has there been no information from the Croatian market since October last year on the withdrawal of products or the recall of products from the market? About a million people in developed countries are estimated to experience food - transmitted disease every year, food becomes insecure when contaminated with bacteria, viruses, parasites, or chemicals that cause disease. Ensuring food safety and hygiene is extremely important because it helps to protect consumer health from food and food poisoning diseases. And in conclusion, only healthy food is a prerequisite for a healthy diet, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118563	There are several replicas, a respected representative of Dretar, first of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118564	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Representatives Ban Vlahek, here is when you mentioned this app, which is, of course, available through mobile devices to all citizens, have you seen how much it costs to develop, maintain and upgrade this application during this research? In a few hours we'll be talking about another app here, so I'm just curious because I don't have any data, do you have any information on how much it actually costs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118565	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118566	Dear fellow Dretar, I have no information, and I was interested in them, given that in the last few days and several previous discussions we had and when we talked about various applications that were zero in, at the Ministry and Agriculture and other ministries, but what I can assume didn't cost a bit. What worries me about this case about that app when I've been through the last few days in some kind of conversation with citizens no one's heard of the app. I have to honestly admit even I who, who should be dealing with this except when this point came to the agenda and when I studied this law so that I don't know whose fault it is, whether it's our failure, whether we haven't heard enough and haven't read enough, but here's none of the ones I asked haven't heard about that app, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118567	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118568	Dear MPs talk about the importance and safety of food for consumers, it is important to introduce and apply if it is useful and will not cost so much, but what is also important is what is responsible for allowing small producers to keep meat in slaughterhouses safe and that we have enough slaughterhouses to allow the consumption of Croatian meat. Do you think that 20 million dollars in funding can satisfy the needs of all those who are going to apply, satisfy us that we will have the opportunity to buy Croatian meat in Croatian slaughterhouses because we cannot get to the meat unless this 20 million for which we can apply both large and small, and with that 20 million we will protect those small and The small ones in Zagorje, etc. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Is that possible? It's magic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118569	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118570	20 million as much as you mention if they're transparently assigned, maybe it could be enough. What is important is that these funds really come to small producers, that small producers place their products, that they are not all products from imports. What I asked the Secretary of State today was whether to control that food from imports because the food from imports is essentially food that was brought in, imported from third countries, I'm sorry and I didn't get the right answer. So it is essential that small producers in the Republic of Croatia have opportunities to buy their products and cook at fair prices, not to lower their prices and that they do not have any cost-effectiveness regarding their products.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118571	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118572	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, here we have soon the same law that applies to food and means to the presence of GMOs which we do not allow, it is important that you mentioned this app and the fact that all of us together, especially our citizens and those who are not used by both the web and the apps actually do not know enough about how to recognize health food, how to react to it, so just here is my question to you how could we all be more informed as a society together? How much can this law contribute and how much can only the ministry contribute to informing the public more and in time about these applications and how to identify the wrong food? So, what can we all do together? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118573	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118574	What I said in my debate is that it is time for the Ministry of Agriculture to unite all the laws in the area of food safety into one roof law and thus avoid these chaotic situations. I welcome this app so I don't get it wrong, I think it's great and I've looked really much at it, but what I'm interested in means that since October 2021, in the Ministry of Agriculture, there's been no information about the withdrawal of products or recalls products from the market. Does that mean we really didn't have to pull out of the market? But I'm not sure because as much as I read in the media, products are often withdrawn from the market. Consumers expect to be protected from the dangers that occur throughout the food chain from the manufacturer to the consumer himself, so I welcome this application and hope that it will benefit all citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118575	Now she will speak to the esteemed representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118576	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. State Secretary, Director, Representatives and Representatives. It is absolutely certain when we talk about food that this is a topic concerning each of us, all of our citizens and this law is extremely important because, in addition to its aim to simplify the procedure, to align our legislation with that of the EU, it has the aim of really controlling market conditions when it comes to microbiological conditions and food hygiene. Of course, it would be most desirable and that's what I always recommend, and I try to hold it myself, buy locally produced food from famous manufacturers because it would actually somehow guarantee ourselves that we don't buy a cat in a bag. Of course, this does not challenge the control system and everything that is placed on the market, but we should work more on promoting short food chains and show it by example, it would be good for us, too, because they say what you eat, so we should watch what food we eat. And locally produced food certainly has its own quality, and this would also help agricultural producers because European Commission research has shown that those producers participating in short food supply chains earn more than 8,000 euros from those producers that are in long food supply chains. So here's the beginning of this debate of mine is somehow encouraging all of us to buy local, domestic, Croatian. We have also seen through different research carried out by consumer associations, but also by the competent authorities at European level that food safety is very important to consumers and that they are quite often untrustworthy or suspicious whether the competent authorities are taking all the necessary activities in controlling what is being placed on our market. I agree with the ministry when it gossips about our enquiries that Croatia is part of the common market and that it is not imports, but I would also like to say that we have had situations in the not so long ago when it was known exactly which EU country, for example, comes from chicken that then caused us certain problems because it was infected with salmonella. And my personal opinion that we should reach out to the mechanisms at our disposal, other than the system of trust that has been established, we have the right to doubt that any shipment of food that comes to our market from other EU countries could be dangerous for the health of our consumers to stop, control and when we see that it does not meet the standards it is then to return. I believe that a few of those moves that may sound radical, but they are allowed by European directives, in some ways, would draw more attention to those suppliers who are seriously doubted that more mechanics than they are serious about their food business and meeting standards. Also, last time I spoke in an individual debate about the importance of establishing a time limit for frozen food, it was only one example, so the answer came but there is no other Member State and the EU does not ask us to do so. All right, let's not ask, but they don't forbid it. For us, it would be good because in this segment, especially when we talk about meat, we actually record a series of inappropriate situations that I would say on the edge of the law where we reported our Food Agency found meat that had been frozen for several years. It is not in the interest of the consumer and whatever the Ministry suggests that this issue may be for discussion under another law, but if we have meat that has been frozen for 7 years, we always have to ask ourselves what kind of microbiological conditions are. Is that where the food hygiene is satisfied? Could it have been defrosted, then frozen? So in that sense, I think that a lot of dilemmas would solve, the EU doesn't regulate it, it doesn't prohibit us from doing that. Why don't we ourselves take some initiatives and make some moves both in terms of legislation and in terms of control that I think would put more order into the market and give our consumers more security and trust that we are really doing everything in our power to protect their interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118577	Thank you. And we have more replicas. The first is the respected representative Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118578	Thank you. Dear fellow Petyr, here is the beginning of this year we have brought strategy in agriculture since 2030, which includes that plan from field to table. Well, this final bill today is related to our Agriculture Strategy and short supply chains. Healthy, quality, domestic, local, our Croatian food with our own, produced on our family farms, so can you comment on that a little bit?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118579	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118580	Thank you, Comrade Dragon on the line. So that is why this law aims, as well as all procedures dealing with food hygiene control and microbiological conditions in which food is produced, to truly cover the whole traceability from field to table, and that should be our interest because we don't care what our citizens eat, what is put before them, and whether everything that comes to the market from other EU countries but also from third countries meets all the prescribed conditions. What we wouldn't want our children to eat, if they can simplify it so completely is not good for other people's children either. In that sense, I would advocate that the controls be more frequent, that they be stricter and that our consciousness is directed towards buying locally, to buy domestically from famous producers, because they certainly won't fool us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118581	Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118582	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I read in the media today that two food products originating in Thailand were withdrawn from the market because they were harmful to health. We in Split-Dalmatia County before, not long ago were uncomfortablely surprised when our School of Public Health did one analysis and showed that the highest percentage of colon cancer has exactly in the area of Dalmatia for a miracle because they should be turned towards the Mediterranean way of eating. But it's not really like that. I think people are aware enough that the domestic food and food produced by our OPGs is healthier, better quality but simply dumping import food prices is difficult for them to mate in particular people who are not able to financially track it. So here I'm interested in these short-food chains whether they'll further potentiate, even through our educational institutions like schools, high school. and elementary, colleges, etc. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118583	Thank you. Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118584	Thank you, colleague Brcic. You mentioned this well, because this alarm system is really well established at European level. And whenever it happens to be discovered somewhere that a particular product does not meet the standards, all the Member States that then withdraw these products are alarmed. Short food supply chains are extremely important, because this is part of the answer to your concern about the health you mentioned, and this has been warned by the European Commission in its report and recommendations for the National Strategic Plan where Croatia has a very high risk of food-related improvement. So in this segment we need to do more work, and just if we turn to short food supply chains, we're going to consume better food. And what we are as a Committee on Agriculture, these days and through official recommendations, we would like the short food supply chains to be implemented in connecting green and blue agriculture and tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118585	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118586	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Petir, I absolutely support what you say to the short supply chain, let's buy Croatian from our producers etc. Unfortunately, however, many regulations have made our producers uncompetitive and the two of us can afford it. However, a lot of our citizens may not be able to say in price. Here's the last thing we've imposed on our producers is the Seed Act, the seed work, for small producers, it's unattainable. We have released them in part and freed them, but this makes our production uncompetitive and rightly questions colleagues and colleagues why some things in Germany or France cost much cheaper than in Croatia, and the product is which, by some logic, should be cheaper in Croatia if it is a Croatian product.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118587	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118588	Thank you, colleague Hajdukovic. With the seed law, we exempt small producers from the obligation to process seeds, so I think it was on the trail of all our common thinking that this is good especially when it comes to personal production and personal needs. And the problem you say is multi-layered, because we are here recently in which the fifth or sixth round of tax reforms again reduced VAT to food, but if you noticed not all the trade chains followed this reduction, however, some unfortunately raised their margins to the expense of consumers. It is something that is inadmissible, which I would like here once again to apostrophe and invite consumer associations to make blacklists of those trade chains and publish them publicly which actually raise margins instead of reducing the price of food when the state comes out to meet them and make it easier and lower VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118589	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118590	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Parliamentarians. We have that saying to buy Croatian, so we produce healthy food and it should end up on the Croatian table, but it is expensive, still expensive to consume for most of our citizens. What should we do to produce more and make this food more available? Because now we want to admit or not, our paying power is such that we still reach out to the trade chains where we buy food of suspicious quality, and you said yourself we have to see that we don't buy cat in a bag. So what can the Croatian State, what can an individual do to feed us healthier and then live better and more pleasantly?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118591	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118592	Thank you, fellow Shimičević. In that sense, certainly some of the measures already started to take are ongoing because, for example, to build enough distribution centres and storage facilities and not sell our fruit when everyone else has it because at that point, we have no place to store it or we have it too expensive. For example, the competition opened on July 1st to help build small slaughterhouses or moving slaughterhouses, which is extremely important, let's say my first encounter after there was an earthquake in Banovina with farmers resulted in information that I wasn't aware at that time that their biggest problem was that they didn't have close to the slaughterhouse and then they pointed out the problem as a need to get a moving slaughterhouse, to reduce their transport costs and to ensure them all these hygienic and The microbiological conditions I'm talking about. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118593	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118594	Dear MPs, I wonder if the number of serious food producers is growing since HACCP is expensive and that manufacturers pay dearly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118595	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118596	Thank you, colleague Ban Vlahek. So I'd like to view all the manufacturers as serious manufacturers, of course from our perspective it's always easier to say something, and it's harder to assess, but that's why there are inspection services to control whether all those producers who put food on the market stick to the rules. What we have also been through this debate, as well as some previous discussions, has concluded that it may be too much of a requirement and too much of a condition for our agricultural producers to meet all the conditions as soon as possible, without seeing far-reaching consequences. So here's the most part of the debate that our producers had to close, and today we're designing instruments to reopen them. The slaughterhouses and simplify the conditions. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118597	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118598	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues, you spoke about the short food supply chains we had a recent thematic session about and we have actually found that the short food supply chains in Croatia do not exist. It is the impression that no one in particular is engaged and that everything depends in fact on the local initiative or perhaps regional level, and one of the ways of rounding up production agricultural products is through cooperatives or other organisational forms, it is the impression that the ministry is not taking this enough action to encourage even rounding and placeing together certain agricultural products. How do you comment, or how do you think this should encourage it to become actually a national goal, and not that it is a consummated goal that we are all aware of at local level?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118599	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118600	Thank you, colleague Vlasic Iljkić, for this replica. Yes, and we also realized that we have certain problems in mentality other than all that you've listed, which is that there is this one unwillingness of our producers to join together. It is true that the procedures for the formation of producer organisations are still quite complicated, so it is in one hand discouraging, and on the other hand we have seen only by our intervention as a committee on the Agricultural Land Act when we put certain additional criteria on the basis of which we can get points for advantage in the lease of agricultural land that it has also encouraged certain producers to join, but also some other activities. In this sense, it is absolutely institutional to approach the problem because local initiatives are good, but they depend quite on enthusiasm. and the question of how it ends in the end. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118601	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118602	Dear MPs, do you think that given the slaughterhouses you mentioned yourself, given that this law is indeed with a very strict one of the strictest criteria it will actually accumulate, given that, on the other hand, you say yourself, there are insufficient means to stimulate and re-use the conditions of the slaughterhouse. Without slaughterhouses, there is no Croatian meat, in what way to ensure that this meat is available and that it is affordable with all criteria established traceability of food with HACCP, so I repeat, HACCP does not have to be expensive, so it is only necessary to determine the traceability of food, but these criteria, especially for slaughterhouses, so we impose something and that is good, but the compensations are too small.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118603	Thank you. Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118604	Thank you, colleague Antoliæ Vupra. Well, I wouldn't say that only slaughterhouses are a prerequisite that we have Croatian meat on the Croatian table. We have intervened as a committee, and I will repeat now to the Agricultural Land Act where we have conditioned the applicants that at least 30% must have domestic livestock, domestic farming, because someone can explain to me what kind of Croatian meat imported from a neighbouring country is not to name it, was drowned in Croatia and exported to another neighbouring or further country. So we have to go through the legal instruments of the so-called. The carrot and batin model has been simplified to insist on increasing domestic production, but then I agree with ensuring complete infrastructure that must be monitored including slaughterhouses, which is now called for the Croatian meat to really be on the Croatian table.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118605	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118606	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and here is the greeting of the esteemed lady. Minister, thank you for joining us. Dear Representative Petir, we have heard that the public does not know, I confess that she said, the respected representative Ban Vlahek, I have heard about the app "Food" for the first time. Here's an example I personally experienced, a friend works as a technologist in one of the largest Croatian connectors and says they have to consciously reduce the quality of their products, reduce the proportion of cocoa powder, increase the share of sugar in order to level with quality, actually lower in quality and adapt the dominant quality in this case of chocolate products on the market. So we don't know about the app, on this side people consciously want to buy something weaker and something more unquality. Once again, I would like to stress together the need for education to raise awareness of consumers that they need and must and deserve to eat quality food products.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118607	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118608	Comrade Dretar, I agree that we need to work more on education, and that's not just an individual's task or an association or a ministry, I think it's on all of us. This is why in some previous discussions, especially when we talked about the introduction of the euro and the reduction of VAT and the complete package of tax reform, I talked about the need to increase the funds for consumer associations, because they are our main ally and partner. I am pleased that the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development has appreciated and increased this amount because together with them we can actually carry out those educations. I have to admit the wonders of what you said that the manufacturer himself is going to reduce certain conditions because that's what the market is looking for, it's really completely illogical, especially in the segment that someone wants to eat more sugar when we know which diseases can be caused afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118609	Honorable representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118610	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Petir, I agree with you that we should buy from local producers is that food is better quality, but in a situation where in Croatia 75% of pensioners are below the official poverty line it is not actually possible. And for example, I once bought ducks, a frozen duck from Hungary, it's something scary, and now, I'm curious about what it's really like to allow such bad meat to actually be placed on the market, or is it just on our shelves, whether we respect just such bad meat or otherwise allowed in eu, I'm interested.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118611	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118612	Thank you, colleague Nadj, for the replica. So just because you said you're confirming my thesis that it's very important to buy from famous producers, especially locals, and what I can tell you, I think that the government is one big delusion that these products are significantly more expensive. I buy, for example, cheese and cream from an OPG that's near me and they're nothing more expensive than cheese and cream that would be bought at the store, and they're far above what can be bought in the store. I also buy meat, what we can't do at home alone, of course, because we can't do everything, I buy from famous producers. It is true that this is probably in line with European standards, but that's what I'm warning you about, if we prescribe our own quality criteria and put some restrictions on us then we'll just push these ducks or pork away from our market.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118613	Thank you. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative Barbara Antolic Vupra, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118614	The present, this bill ensures that as many as 10 regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council or of the European Commission are implemented, and a directive is transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. A legal basis has been provided for the adoption of national provisions in the areas of direct supply of small quantities of agricultural products produced on their own holding, additional requirements for the labelling of food of animal origin, rules on the hygiene of food of animal origin, the development of an annual monitoring plan for animal origin, the state plan for the monitoring of residuals in the production of animal origin intended for human consumption, the programme of state monitoring for the monitoring of antimicrobial resistance in animals and animal origin and the monitoring plan for the quality of the sea and shellfish. So, I've just listed it to see why the area is covered and it's quite wide-ranging, but what would have been problematic is that you can't find any objection in the law itself except that implementation for producers, for small producers, is going to be the one that costs and what's most problematic is that there's not enough resources to even up the odds and large and small, and that ultimately, and that the production of super food that can really be the product of small producers, that super food has to be particularly stimulated, and for that, it has to be provided with larger funds. I know it's often been the problem of the slaughterhouse until now, but I'm going to do it again, so you can't get meat if you don't slaughter an animal, you need that segment and you need it for HACCP's sake, because then you're going to get the traceability of food, so you're going to get that meat through that slaughterhouse. And now it's good, I repeat again, that we have such strict criteria as to condition the slaughterhouses, but the problem is that no means are provided to reopen those slaughterhouses. So, I'm extracting a pretty amazing piece of information, the Varazdin County from which I come has not had any of the pubs' slaughterhouses, of which 102 approved in Croatia. This is the statistical data from the register of approved facilities in the animal-origin food business of September 2001. on the total number of approved butcher slaughterhouses per county and the share of slaughterhouses approved with the adjustment measures to the total number of approved papkar slaughterhouses. It is somewhat encouraging that last week, more specifically on 1 July, the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development has opened a fifth tender for the implementation of sub-measure 4.2. support for investment in the processing, marketing or development of agricultural products, implementation of operation 4.2.1. increase in additional value to agricultural products, therefore small slaughterhouses. The purpose of this tender as explained by the Agency is to increase the value of products from primary agricultural production investments in the construction and reconstruction of small slaughterhouses with or without equipment to purchase mobile slaughterhouses. The total amount of aid available is EUR 20 million. The level of support under the project ranged from 15 to 200,000 euros and the support intensity was up to 50%. So, I think it is my estimated estimate and assessment that it is too small, so livestock farming is a branch that is not positioned enough for us anyway, especially pork, is not sufficiently represented in the Croatian economy in Croatian agriculture, and the intensity and desire and our intention is and we need to improve it in order to simply improve the supply of our citizens. So, the fact is that we make good regulations, but we don't allow manufacturers to produce competitively.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118615	We have three replicas, the first respected representative of Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118616	Dear colleagues, we keep mentioning food safety, encouraging a small producer. Recently, there was a case that we read in the media about the noise of oil sold on the market under a fake label. Citizens come to town markets, hang out in town markets, believe that when they come to that city market that they'll buy the right product and then some kind of affair happens. How can citizens be sure that they buy real noise oil, healthy proper food and what is the most important quality food compared to the price they pay? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118617	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118618	So, by being discovered, I think we're on a good track. So, I think we have a market inspection and our inspectorate well-formed, what's missing and what's really and always stressing is the number of inspectors, and also the education of inspectors in terms of new technologies and always some new things that appear in fraud. Therefore, it is an old pain, but sufficient number and investment in continued traceability, so the HACCP system will simply reduce these frauds to the least possible measure. I can claim that really around HACCP we've made a lot of progress as a country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118619	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118620	My fellow Members, you spoke about how important it is to actually flexibilize requests for small producers so that they can do business and be more competitive, and on this trail is this supplement. The 10th century 17th century, where the Regulation will be adopted and where smaller, I would say, more flexible requirements will be placed before the manufacturers. I agree with you that the slaughterhouses are important and it is good that the ministry has called this contest. It's hard for me to estimate, but I'm guessing they had some math when they found that 20 million kunas is the amount they're going to finance the operation with. What I'm interested in, do you think it would be good for the project assessment to also be guided by a territorial criterion so that perhaps funded projects from one region or one county, while the other parts remain neglected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118621	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118622	I mentioned before, so in Varazdin County, we don't have any slaughterhouses, so it's the opposite of the concept of a field to a table, so the opposite is about food that should be as close as possible and the concept of even producing super food that should be food for our future, because I think we have a country where it really is easy to achieve such a goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118623	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118624	Thank you. Dear colleagues, here we all are, as far as I can see, a generation that lived in a pig's age, domestic cabins, domestic pigs that were farmed in the household, and I'm sure we all suffer less from allergies than today's generations are suffering from the sophisticated food from the import centres of strict EU norms that are certainly not as good as they say there on those norms because the health situation and that health picture of the Croatian population shows it. The slaughterhouses, we had slaughterhouses, both large and small, but Croatia destroyed them with prenormized laws, we also had mills, so we no longer have, so now we use flour and semi-certain products from Europe because Europe's goal is to sell them in Croatia, regardless of what we think the market is small, sell its products. Teller for, we don't have enough bodies and we'll never have enough to slaughter in those slaughterhouses again? Foreign cattle?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118625	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118626	I totally agree with you, so even in the application of HASAP, so from the beginning when we started introducing it, everyone should have had no idea what kind of plates, so no one thought to serve on boards, as you have a chance today. So what you're saying, so when we're on, at the little OPG, when that pig's been allowed today to be as a traditional part of the heritage, then those parts of us as a state have to be protected. These ways, we must protect traditional ways. We must also finally protect, what you said, for the sake of our children's health, that they may have the option of domestic animals, so be present in one part of that rural peasant way of life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118627	Now, finally, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Ban Vlahek, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118628	In the food safety management system there are many responsible entities, not only food business operators but also end-users who need information and knowledge on how to use the product, which are dangerous to it and how to prevent them, to which various conferences and educations certainly contribute. Food is one of the elements that significantly affects the preservation of human health. And yet Hippocrates long ago said that food is our medicine, that it builds our organism and does what we really are. WHO points out that in the world, one out of 10 people is affected by food - transmitted diseases and stresses the need to transform food systems in order to ensure better health in a sustainable way and to prevent food - transmitted diseases. Food-borne diseases create a burden on public health, even the economy, because they are often underestimated due to insufficient reporting and difficulties in establishing a direct relationship between polluted food and resulting diseases and deaths. About a million people in developed countries are estimated to experience food - transmitted disease every year. Food becomes insecure when contaminated with bacteria, viruses, parasites, or chemicals that cause disease. According to WHO data, nearly 600 million people get sick every year, and 420 thousand people die as a result of poor food consumption. Of which, as many as 150,000 children under the age of 5. The most common causes of food poisoning are salmonella bacteria, Campylobacter, Escherichia coli and many others. Why is food safety important? Ensuring food safety and hygiene is extremely important to help protect consumer health from food and food poisoning. Food poisoning occurs, as I have already stated, when food is contaminated by bacteria, viruses, and other microbes that make those who consume contaminated food sick. Generally, food poisoning can be managed at home, but sometimes it can be serious and requires urgent medical attention, so consumers must be careful against food poisoning. Trust in food security and integrity is an important demand for consumers. Food epidemics caused by food causes such as Escherichie coli, salmonella and chemical pollutants, highlight food safety issues and cause public concern that modern agricultural systems, food processing and marketing do not provide adequate protection of public health. Consumers expect to be protected from risks occurring throughout the food chain from the primary producer to the consumer. So it's time, I repeat again, that the Ministry of Agriculture unites all the food safety laws into one roof law and avoids the chaotic situations that we have talked about several times today, and it concerns the withdrawal of a whole series of products due to illicit additives and incorrect quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118629	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative, Ankica Zmaic, will speak finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118630	Oh, thank you. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here, today we conclude the debate on the final proposal of the Food Hygiene Act and the microbiological criteria for food. Meanwhile, from the proposal for a law from first reading to this final proposal, the Ministry of Agriculture accepted the comments made by the Legislative Committee, which were mostly nomotechnical finishing. In the proposal for a law in the first reading for the implementation of official controls, veterinary veterinary veterinary and agricultural inspectors of the State Inspectorate were designated, and this final proposal for the law on the implementation of official controls also included fishing inspectors at the Ministry of Agriculture. A provision has then been added for the costs of laboratory tests to monitor the quality of the sea and shellfish in the production areas, for which the funds are provided or to be provided in the state budget. It is also pointed out that it was added to the provision that, with the agreement of the Chief State Inspector, the Minister of Agriculture, lays down a regulation that would allow small operators in the food business to reduce the frequency caused by microbiological criteria. Furthermore, compared to the draft law, the final proposal for a fine law is also set in euro. And these are some of the new provisions that are included in this final bill. We can only remind ourselves that this law is in line with the 10 regulations of the Council and of the EU Parliament and with one directive. I stress that all of us have the same goal, and this is healthy food whether animal or plant origin. It is important to improve food business and food control in the field. We're all aware and we all advocate to consume healthy and proper food. Therefore, we need to make it easier for our family farms to operate in order to produce healthy and quality food. We have brought a 2030 Agriculture Strategy by defining and favouring domestic and local agricultural products and rounding or connecting green and blue Croatia. Today, there have also been a lot of words about what I would like to emphasize in particular, and this is a simpler opening of mini or small slaughterhouses, sirens and fish farms because this is exactly the future of our family farms that produce primarily healthy, quality, local and Croatian food. Now is the time of summer, of vacations, and soon will come the time of traditional Slavonian pigs, so here I am also asking the Minister to avoid possible problems with the treatment of pigs in due time. It's our Slavonic anniversary. And finally, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports this final proposal for food hygiene laws, microbiological criteria for food that provides for all of us consumers to consume healthy proper food, which is ultimately our goal for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118631	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, the respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will finally speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118632	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Minister, Secretary of State. At the end of the debate, I would just like to express my regret that we have failed to put a lot of positive measures into the new law. So we could do a lot more and go a step further than Europe requires of us. Europe, as you know, prescribes a minimum, but nothing prevents us from ever more and more than a dog minimum. I must also say that I am disappointed that no comment expressed in the debate during the first reading has finally found its way into the law. Well, it's impossible that all the remarks were bad, the more some of them came from the ruling ones. But I guess this is an indicator of how the government treats the Croatian Parliament, how our remarks are easily understood, and how we will ultimately not necessarily produce a good legislative proposal, but we will change it again, supplement it within a very short period, which means again further complications, especially for those to whom the law applies. Here with these reserves, the Social Democrats Club will still consider whether and in what form they will support such a law. Unfortunately I say I think we missed a very good opportunity to do more and go one step further.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118633	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front will speak the esteemed representative Željko Lenart, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118634	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. The Republic of Croatia has been implementing its 30-year policy, including agricultural and food safety policies, on the safety of the population, on the health of the nation. And after 30 years, when we look at the results we've got, they're devastating to me. Food safety, look around you where you have a little butcher's shop? Do you have a local butcher? You don't. Today they are industry Fiolić, Ravlic. Once every town had one, two butchers, one slaughterhouse, two slaughterhouses. In addition to being a pig that had not been abolished by the law, people simply stopped doing it because there was a problem through other regulations and laws where people were simply impossible to get that pig, buying from someone because all these living records led to people leaving both pig and cradles and supplying themselves in centres where we mostly have meat of questionable quality that we cannot verify. I have to admit, I don't even believe in inspection services when it comes to meat imports. As for this Croatian meat, there are no calves, no Croatian pigs, but not enough. There's not half enough of what we need. We import with here a million tons of wheat we import abnormal quantities of bakery semi-products that only bake with us. The imports of flour are certainly not from the best quality wheat. I bet it goes from the worst wheat flour in Croatia. Ask people who deal with bakery products where they get the flour and whether they can make from this flour that is in the centers to do what they produce. I can't, because it's unquality. Obsolescence of Croatian laws, high strictness of conditions have just contributed to everything I've said that the little ones who used locally disappear, placed locally on domestic products, and therefore the state, the state of the nation's health earlier was far better than today. A variety of allergies, an increase in tumour disease. It's not all pollution! In the Republic of Croatia, the industry is gone. Well, it's not the pollution that caused the increase in tumor diseases, it's just this big import of suspicious food from Europe that's coming here because they have to get rid of their surpluses. They entered the Republic of Croatia through what? Through the malls, through the malls where we spread the door because we all wanted to go to Lidl, Kaufland, Bill or I don't know where. What kind of hot dogs are these for 15 kuna pounds of hot dogs? What kind of hot dogs are these? What's in them? Of 15 kuna, 20%, 3 kuna is VAT, 12 kuna. The cost of transport, the cost of cooling, storage. How much does that hot dog cost in production? Five pounds? What do Croatian children eat? Look on the nets when some people put people under a raise so everything inside can be seen. I can't say now that it's 100% true because I didn't do it, but I believe it's not good because simply, when you calculate it, it can't be good. It can't be good. We're trying to introduce some short supply chains, we're talking about domestic food, and every day our production is dropping, and there's less domestic food. We are talking about large exports of Croatian food. What are we exporting? War products, war products. We're exporting raw materials. We export quality raw materials, we produce soybeans that are not GMOs, and we import from Brazil, Argentina, America, GMOs that are then put into various products, maybe feed some cattle with it, and what comes to the market? Every day worse and worse goods, and we are fighting the EU, with EU regulations and we do not have the guts to create our own laws and say, my people, this is our population, we have to worry about their health, we will make our own law, whether you are right or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118635	Thank you. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118636	We're going to make a statement about the amendments now. First, on the final proposal of the Food Hygiene Act and microbiological criteria. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. You want to be obvious? Here you go. Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118637	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, by Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the hygiene of food, Art. 7 A way to make, distribute and use a guide is defined. Since that Regulation, in the framework of Articles 8 and 9, which provides a framework for the production of national guides and community guides, did not set the period of validity of the abovementioned guides, we believe that if the Republic of Croatia decided to prescribe the same, it would lead the food industry to a more unfavourable position than that sector in other Member States, imposing such an obligation on them. Furthermore, with insight into community guides available on the EC's official pages, most of them were found to be expressed a number of years ago, which in most cases exceeds the two-year deadline.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118638	Thank you very much. I see there's no one from the Homeland Movement, and then that amendment will be voted on. Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118639	The amendment is not accepted. Also, the Regulation on the registration and approval of objects and on the registration of entities in the food business where the article is located is currently in force. 9 defined the way in which the registered entity in the food business submitted a request with a change of data, as well as the types of changes in business that need to be reported to the competent authority, the Ministry as the competent authority for agriculture, when they occur, and the technical data required from the entity, for example, relate to the request for a change in the location of the facility. Also, since the adoption of the new Food Hygiene Act and the microbiological criteria for food are planned to produce a whole series of regulations stemming from that Law, it is planned to draw up a new Regulation on the registration and approval of objects which will make it easier for the entity to operate in the food business, the lack of technical character to be further elaborated and clarified, all in order to facilitate its business for registered operators in the food business.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118640	There's no one from the Homeland Movement, so this amendment will be voted on. Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118641	The amendment is not accepted. It is currently in force to register the approval of the facility and to register food business entities where it is art. 35. and 36. define the way in which authorised entities in the food business submits a request for a change of data as well as the types of changes in business that have been confirmed to re-apply to the competent authority, which is the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118642	Thank you very much. And there's someone from the Homeland Movement who wants to be obvious. ... All right, the important thing is that you're here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. Do you know what the amendment is about? It's about the third amendment. [[/Intruder: Three.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118643	You're going to have to give me the esteemed chairman a little introduction we have a large group of amendments. P.Z.?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118644	Food hygiene and microbiological...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118645	This is the final proposal of the Food Hygiene Act and the microbiological criteria on food, Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118646	Amendment No. 3 The food business operator is obliged to inform the agriculture ministry by written means of any change relating to the facility. [[Intruder Radin: Yes.]] That's where I asked, let's say, in principle, a simple question, any change relating to an object doesn't necessarily have to be a change that is subject to the provisions of this law. They would therefore propose an amendment to add only after the words of each amendment, which changes the conditions and manner of the food business to clearly separate the fact that someone changes the conditions and the way they deal with food, and not every change is absolutely safe if they change the windows at a restaurant, workshop or something else doesn't have to report it. There you go, very simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118647	Are you asking for a vote? Are you asking for a vote? Yeah, okay. Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118648	The amendment is not accepted, since the obligation that animals intended for slaughter may be sent to the slaughterhouse only if there is a special guarantee that the animals have not been treated with prohibited substances and in the event of treatment that the prescribed period of withdrawal has passed. This is the result of Regulation No 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 853/2004 of the EU Parliament and of the Council laying down certain hygiene rules for food of animal origin and that the same process of collecting food chain data is described. We believe that the same should not be further described by the text of the law in question. In addition, provisions on the manner in which the owner confirms the required guarantees as well as the form of an instrument that must accompany the animal in the event of its reference to the slaughterhouse are detailed and prescribed by sublaw.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118649	Thank you very much. You want to be obvious? ... Okay, nothing, you're asking for a vote? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He can do fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118651	We are going to the next point, which is: - Final proposal for a law amending the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1830/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2003 on the traceability and labelling of genetically modified organisms and the traceability of food and feed produced from genetically modified organisms amending and supplementing Directive 2001/18/EC, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 257; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health Silvio Basic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118652	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the honourable parliamentary deputies and parliamentary representatives. This legislative proposal, in addition to harmonising the current law with the latest EU legislation, ensures transparency, continuous and inclusive risk notification throughout the food risk assessment process, and thus genetically modified food, i.e. food for animals involving persons assessing the risk and persons managing risks at Union and national level. In addition, the name of the existing law is changed because of compliance with the unique methodological and technical rules for the production of acts adopted by HS. It is also amended to specify the inspection of the competent authorities for the performance of official controls on the implementation of Regulation No. 1829/2003, Regulation No 1830/2003 and this Act, in accordance with the rules governing the work of the State Inspectorate and the regulations governing the handling of GMOs and the rules governing the handling of food. They shall also amend the amount of fines in part of the infringement provisions in relation to the legal person, the person responsible in the legal person, the craftsman and the person carrying out the second independent activity for the conduct of the provisions of this Act. The objective of this legislative proposal is to adopt the amended provisions of the existing transposed Regulation No. 1829/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2003 on genetically modified food and feed in a part relating exclusively to public access to confidential information, whereby the competent authorities of the EU will need to impose relevant public rights on transparency in the risk assessment process in relation to the rights of the applicant or the applicant of a notification of genetically modified food or feed. In all the public in the EU, and therefore our country, there is a particular concern about the fact that the assessment of food safety of the European Food Safety Authority in the area of the authorisation process for genetically modified food is based primarily on the studies commissioned by industry. Therefore, in order to provide consumers with additional level of guarantees and to ensure access to all relevant scientific data and studies on the request in question, it is appropriate to provide for consultations with third parties with a view to establishing the availability of other relevant scientific data. It is also necessary to establish an additional instrument for checking the data or ordering additional studies, given that the industry itself has a burden of proving compliance with the requirements of the Union, including in the segment of approval of genetically modified food and feed for animals. Due to the different rules on transparency of risk assessment and confidentiality of data set out in the food legislation, as well as other sectors, Union sectoral acts, Regulation 2019/1381 has been adopted to unify the provisions of EU-wide food legislation relating to transparency and sustainability of risk assessment with a view to the provisions relating to food risk notification with a particular emphasis on genetically modified food and feed. Compared to the text of the Law Proposal which passed the first reading in HS, the Proposer additionally nomotechnically completed the Final Bill proposal in a way to be in Article. Paragraphs 5 and 6 states that the payment of fines at the scene of the offence is not binding. In the debate on the draft law, the work bodies of HS, as well as the discussion at the HS session, there were no comments and proposals which could be particularly evident. Dear MPs and MPs, in accordance with this proposal, adopt this final draft of the law because, in addition to the above, citizens' trust will be strengthened, not only in terms of food health regularity, but it is likely that the scientific data delivered and the study of applicants, i.e. industry, will be credible. Decision of the competent authorities and of all institutions, key stakeholders for the establishment of an opinion on food safety or in the whole process of new approvals or extensions of existing GMO and feed for animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118653	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118654	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I assume you've heard of Greenpeac's red list, Greenpeace has put in a list of products that contain or are very likely to contain GMOs for the US, Canada, Australia that have weak regulations. On that list were the tea Lipton, MMS candy, Twiks, Milky Way, Ferrero Rocher, Nestle Chocolate, Coca-Cola, Sprite, Fanta, Seven Up, Knorr sauces and many others what interests me how is it possible that these products sold in our country were found on the list of red Greenpeace or banned sales to those three in America, Canada, Australia, and in our country are allowed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118655	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118656	Everything that is allowed to be sold in our country is allowed in the EU, so nothing that is not, nothing that is allowed in our country is not prohibited in the EU. As it was on that list, I really don't know, I need to check that list, so just seeing that something was on the list doesn't mean that it really is the fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118657	Dear Representative Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118658	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. When GMO food is mentioned then there are always some negative views, but that's just because science didn't say its last word and that we're not many and we're misinformed through the media. Generally, GMO food has an advantage even over conventional food as regards the cost of production, duration, nutritional value, but we also know that the product is more protected from imposers. My question is, would you prefer to eat GMOs genetically that have been tested, good or that are full of herbicides?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118659	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118660	I have to admit that this is a very awkward question, and I'm going to answer you so you don't eat either. I'd rather eat natural food that's organic and has absolutely no herbicides. I also have to admit that I would be happy to wait a while longer for science to give its final opinion on GMOs. Of course, right now, things are about science that should be healthy and safe food and that it went into the production of this food precisely because of the great word in the world, but I am also very glad that our country, or this assembly in March, brought the Declaration on Croatia as a country without GMOs, and I am very happy to eat all of our food that we have on the market for this very reason. I have to admit that this is a very awkward question, and I'm going to answer you so you don't eat either. I'd rather eat natural food that's organic and has absolutely no herbicides. I also have to admit that I would be happy to wait a while longer for science to give its final opinion on GMOs. Of course, right now, things are about science that should be healthy and safe food and that it went into the production of this food precisely because of the great word in the world, but I am also very glad that our country, or this assembly in March, brought the Declaration on Croatia as a country without GMOs, and I am very happy to eat all of our food that we have on the market for this very reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118661	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118662	The most important thing in monitoring controls, so control needs money and needs enough to educate our inspectors, so educate them and supply them with enough lab equipment to prove it. Is that what the account is about and that the State Inspectorate has been able to control it in this way?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118663	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118664	As far as I'm aware at this point are satisfied absolutely all the conditions for the State Inspectorate to meet all its needs. Of course, education is necessary, but permanent education, continuous education in all professions, and especially in this profession, at this point we have two authorized laboratories that have absolutely responded to all needs of the current analysis, so at this point, of course, we are taking care of it, but at this point we are meeting all needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118665	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118666	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. The fact is that in Croatia we do not allow the cultivation of GMO products, but that still those who are held arbitrarily agreed up to 0.9% of the GMO share come to our market, and in this all have actually certified laboratories to control the presence of GM and GMOs. How many of us actually have authorized labs? I've come across the last piece of information that there are two, I don't know if we have any other data and how many times a year it's been controlled? Sanitary inspection takes about 200 controls every year, according to what I found. Do you have any other information and how much of that product has this arbitrarily agreed percentage of GMOs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118667	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118668	There are only two certified laboratories in Croatia at the moment, one in Zagreb, the other in Osijek, but there are a number of other laboratories that can apply to it only have to meet the conditions prescribed by the ministry clearly no need so far they have not applied for any other reason. But these two we have, I repeat, fully meet all our needs, regularly carry out controls. In 2021. A little more than 200 controls were carried out and no GMO trace was found in any sample or... traces, except in a few where there were indeed very, very small percentages significantly below this allowed 0.9, and this is considered technological contamination. However, when such a sample is found then the manufacturer either withdraws the product from the market or must prove that it is indeed technological contamination, not GMOs or origin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118669	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118670	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Bašić, yes, we are all as well aware as the respected representative Kirin said the transition to eco- and biological production and I myself have an extraordinary friend from Slavonia who has organic production, does not use pesticides, herbicides of course even his farm surface processes horses in order to reduce the natural entry and agricultural mechanisms among agricultural cultures and this should certainly be a road that we need to develop, but still realize that the yields are smaller and that the goods themselves are ultimately more expensive when it comes to the market. You mentioned this Croatian GMO free initiative, so do you have any information when about and will one day Croatia be a GMO zone and if it will be when it might happen? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118671	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118672	Well, the declaration was made in March this year, but before that, about 4-5. Before that it started and de facto all the counties have so far declared that GMOs are sites without GMOs, therefore at this point it is already now, and of course we should all together propagate organic production, but we are all aware, you are well aware that this is a great risk and less yield and less profit, but the incentives offered by our country and the EU allow the possibility to move freely into it, so here I can praise myself, I have this, I have organic olive production, so I will give you some of my oil, but very little.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118673	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118674	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, here at the initiative of the Committee on Agriculture HS, HS adopted a declaration that, in fact, Alpe-Adria-Dunav area is declared free of GMOs and we call on other countries to join us because, as you said 10 years ago, all the counties in Croatia have decided to be GMOs free, and we are forbidden to sow such seeds, even for experimental purposes. We know that those foods that are imported, and there are remarks that are greater than 0.9% must be marked. What we can possibly still do to strengthen our status as leader, the country leader who promotes GMO free access, is to mark our food as GMOs free food, of course there is a need for regulation. I have information that the Ministry of Agriculture has set out to produce such an act, so I'm interested in the position of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118675	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118676	So I can tell you freely that our position in this respect is particularly positive and transportable because, apart from this, a lot of concerns about the health of our citizens, we care about the economy of the entire country, given that we are a tourist country then I think it is a very good argument to attract as many tourists as possible to our country with the beauty of landscapes healthy and quality nutrition.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118677	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118678	Thank you. Since we are GMOs freed in all counties, however GMOs are easily stolen and in the Republic of Croatia, it is an extremely strong lobby. As for the soy I mentioned earlier, mostly soy in cattle diet is used by GMO soy that comes from Brazil, from Argentina, and Sano himself from Popovače himself who works moves writes on his bag to use GMO soy, means that she is here trying to push herself through a small door. There is also a combination of soy and surrender to silos that occurs to occur on silos that are being examined at the entrance to happen sample that shows the GMO strain, whether the seed came not as certified, whether it came through the small door, but certainly trying to infect the RH with that. I wonder how many samples were discovered in the livestock food that wasn't declared without the discovery of the GMO sample? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118679	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118680	I'm trying to find the information you asked me, but unfortunately I don't have it here. What my data is, in none of the 2021s, in any sample, is not found GMOs, GMOs, neither this DNA residue nor... in any other way, but the correct answer to your question cannot be answered at this time. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118681	Honorable representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118682	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, therefore Bayer's takeover of Monsant and the appearance of the coronary virus has actually lost its media focus with GMOs and it is possible that activities from sectors that care deeply about the fact that GMOs are not being banned as much in Croatia as so far. You said that we had two certified labs and that last year we actually made 200 checks, and I don't think that's enough. How exactly are you going to strengthen these controls? [[Clip intrusion: Over 200]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118683	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118684	The health ministry is, this is, this is in the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate and if there is a need, there are certain plans that are done every year and I can't comment whether it's too little or, or this one too, it's not too sure. I would personally like to have as much control as possible, but I guess those who deal with this problem have concluded that's enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118685	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Let's go, then open the debate, first, first, on behalf of the Club of Representatives Mosta, the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic will speak, has no, loses the right to speak, and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, the respected representative Darko Klasic will speak, has no, loses his right to speak, and then, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, will speak to the respected representative Vesna Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118686	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. This final draft of the law, not to repeat its name, harmonizes the existing law in question with the latest EU legislation. The transposition of the provisions of Regulation of 2019/1381 should ensure a transparent, continuous, credible and inclusive risk notification throughout the process of assessing food risk at national and Union level in order to protect human, animal, plant, environmental and consumer interests. According to current regulation, all products with 0.9% and more GMOs must have a declaration while less than 0.9% are considered technological, technological contamination and therefore do not have to be marked. Infringement provisions shall also be regulated, in accordance with the type of infringements relating to the placing on the market of GMOs intended for the use of food or feed for animals. This final proposal for a law stipulates that official controls on the implementation of the EU regulation are carried out by sanitary inspectors, veterinary inspectors and agricultural inspectors of the State Inspectorate in accordance with the regulations governing the work of the State Inspectorate and the rules governing the handling of GMOs, as well as regulations governing the handling of food. With 19 other EU members, Croatia has declared itself a country where it is prohibited to grow genetically modified plants and all counties as we have heard they have been declared GMO free of counties. However, we must not relax Airbayer's takeover of Monsant and the occurrence of Coronal Virus has slowed down the media focus with GMOs and has slowed down development activities in the agrochemical industry. A team of more media radar can go through activities from sectors that are very concerned about not being banned, however, as it has been regulated in the Republic of Croatia so far. When we talk about GMOs, we have a mostly negative view especially when we talk about such food, although in the debate in the first reading of this bill we have heard that all persons suffer from insulin-dependent diabetes use genetically modified insulin. This insulin is produced from Escherich Coli bacteria that has been implanted in the human insulin gene. Our children were vaccinated with a Hepatitis B vaccine produced by a genetic engineering procedure. The possibility of using genetic engineering in medicine has great potential, for example by technology we could replace genes related to some serious diseases which I believe would have a positive impact on citizens. Genetically modified food at first sight has its advantage over conventional organic food. First of all, these are lower prices, longer product duration or higher nutritional value. However, the main reason for the genetically modified food to be produced was the increased capacity of resistance from pests and various plant diseases, thus reducing the use of pesticides. A total of 16 genetically modified crops of corn, soybeans, cotton, rape oil, tomatoes, potatoes, sugar beet etc. are known. In addition to crossing and only mixing genetically modified food and conventional food in the fields may have consequences for food safety. This risk is realistic, because in the United States, it has been proven that there has been a mixing of corn that has been authorised only for human feed animals with corn. Possible real hazards that worry are the ability to escape modified genes in nature, to survive modified genes after sowing, the sensitivity of useful insects to gene products, and to reduce biodiversity. Therefore, any genetically modified food should be assessed separately. The genetically modified food currently placed on the market in the world has passed a risk assessment and is unlikely to pose a risk to human health. However, in a situation where, due to the corona crisis and war in Ukraine, some supply chains of food in the world are interrupted, the lower price of a particular food product could be crucial in buying food in our country and GMOs are currently at a lower price than so-called. organic, organic food. What can be done in Croatia? We must have our own food policy that will be based on organic production and not allow us to respect food of plant and animal origin that has more than 0.9% of GMOs. Such high food quality standards must also include comprehensive strategic documents that must finally be drawn up and then implemented in action plans and normative acts. When we hear commercials about cheap chicken or pork we need to ask ourselves what they fed them, we need to take a good look at the declaration, and from that declaration it must be visible whether these are GMOs free products, or what these chickens and pigs are fed to. We do not want to be a country that will be a market for cheap chicken with the taste of fish and tomatoes with the taste of Styrofoam, while rich importers of these foods would certainly not let their children eat. If we are a poor country, we do not have to be a food container of poor quality or food that contains GMOs above allowed values just because it is cheap. Currently, there are two authorised laboratories in the Republic of Croatia, as we have said, but we believe that they should be financially strengthened in the technological and humane sense, and must be found for this budgetary means. It is important to find citizens in the consumption of meat and milk products from animals fed to GMO crops from the declaration know the traceability of meat, milk and meat products they eat. Because more than 50% of the world’s livestock food is produced from genetically modified seeds and therefore it is not consistent that the final products on the shelves are not so marked. If cattle are fed to GMOs that we as final consumers should know that and should be clearly declared at packaging. The competent resolution ministries of agriculture and health should approach the development of normative acts, which would make it clear how and who may be a GMO free label and only for animal feeding with GMO feed for animals. I think it will give one additional value to our agricultural products, additional value to our tourist offer because tourists would be willing to pay a higher price for quality organic food. And even if this trip was cut short from field to table it would improve our tourist offer and not only on the coast but also on the continent. And this great role must also be played by HRT as a public service to propagate such organic production as black Slavonic pigs and poultry that walk freely as well as organic vegetables and fruits. So it is already pointed out that Croatia is a GMO free country and it is good that the State Inspectorate has confirmed for 2020-2021 that in all samples of seeds that have sampled that there is no GMO above the allowed amount. However, in the context of the corona crisis and recession that is announced because of the war in Ukraine, it is a very real danger that food prices will go wild and that some GMO advocates will try to hunt in a dim way for their own breakthrough. I think that in a situation where 440 tonnes of food is thrown in Croatia, the country must find a way to solve this problem through campaigns and education by correct product declaration of their lifetime. We should enable all citizens to buy quality organic products that our farmers will produce in their fields without being lost and there should be more engagements and strategic and normative agriculture ministry that is our weakest link. The Social Democrats' club will still support this final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118687	In the name of the House Movement Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative, Davor Dretar, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118688	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Yes, of course, any law or any law which in any way ensures better quality of food and people and animals here in Croatia should undoubtedly be supported. What we can discuss is, of course, the situation. I mentioned many farmers who have opted for organic production and we know for ourselves that this should actually be some kind of production that we can freely say we are going back to some old times until modern technologies as well as those related to the mechanization of seeds, the land treatment has not yet existed. So one is the eco production in any case brings us a table of healthy food, quality food, food that we should eat, but before us our children, but here we are exposed to certain risks. Of course, this type of production is susceptible and time-constraint, it is subject of course to diseases, it is much less resistant to certain types of soil where it can be used mainly in the end it has less and is also due to the cost of production, and also because of the fact that it has less expensive. Then of course we must always answer that so-called. The devil's dilemma, if we're gonna get together healthy and expensive or we're gonna buy cheap enough to eat something, and tomorrow we're gonna see how we're gonna move on. We should not be particularly wise that in a country where we cannot really say that we live a comfortable life with regard to finance, we have some major moral problems about making such a decision. Of course, we're going to go to the mall, most of them are foreign property, and we're going to buy how it's mentioned here from several sides, and in fact we're thinking the same thing, we're going to buy frozen bakery products that they made at the same center, and we imported them, we're going to buy more cheap oranges, cheaper apples, we're going to buy a lot of things that are significantly cheaper. We've been discussing here all day, in principle we can speak freely about food, and food is among other things one of the very, very, very important elements of the way we live, the way we feed a lot of talk about us, and we're currently eating obviously badly. Without a doubt, such a law, a law that will give us enhanced wider and more intense, stricter control over the introduction of GMOs and food for animals in Croatia should absolutely be supported and we have no dispute about it. But what is the fact and we heard here, I will not be particularly original when I say that GMO food, GMO preparations still slowly drill the Croatian market and find their place. The answer yes, it will be clearly marked, all products that will contain GMOs will be clearly marked, without a doubt that it is completely and entirely fine. But will we use them more strongly, will they start to make a greater percentage in the Croatian market in the coming months, years, or decades? Maybe it's hard for now and it's impossible to estimate. What are the long-term results of using GMOs in animal food, so, of course, through these mentioned and resident here today, I'm pretty under-explained, sorry if I hit something on human health over a long period of time? There are numerous studies, so we will look for some future truth in them. In any case, I would not quite agree with the proposal that there is a particular concern, it is certain that among Croatian citizens, among people who buy daily food products there is great concern. No doubt, each of us cares about what he eats and reminds me again, what our children will eat. We will support this law of course and hope that in the future Croatia as a GMO free zone will be able to take advantage of this comparative advantage, also introduce itself to our tourists, not only throughout the summer but throughout the year. Working on the strategy for the development of Krapina-Zagorje County, we have simply proposed that this road be reduced from field to table, even looking for certain decisions and units of local self-government and the entire state or competent ministries to help us do so. Here's an interesting example, if you've ever gone to Slovenia to one of their famous Atomic spas, then you've eaten very nicely there, I've talked to the restaurant owner, and then he's said, of course, that's because what they might call a county or what we call a county here in Croatia has made an interesting decision, she's told all the catering entities that hotels and restaurants, as well as rural tourism that agricultural products are those vegetables, food that can only be bought from producers in their area. And they did one wonderful thing, they cut that chain from field to table, they provided, of course, and placed it on all these small agricultural producers, a good placement, regular and safe charge, and the hotels and restaurants at the same time with great joy on all their tables pointed out beautiful little panels on which guests, visitors could read you eat food that was grown 600m, 800m, a kilometer 200 of this restaurant and each day freshly delivered to our kitchen and then to your tables. I think it's a good, healthy and reasonable way for Croatia in the future. In any case, this final bill will certainly be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118689	On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, a respected representative, Andreja Maric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118690	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. The law itself of this Final Proposal of the Law is not a matter of scope, with which we are actually in line with EU legislation, this aims to ensure transparency, continuous and credible risk notification throughout the entire risk analysis among all stakeholders, in the process of approving genetically modified food and feed for animals. In addition, the inspection tasks are defined. The principle of opportunity in the case of certain violations, i.e. misdetermination provisions, the amount of fines, and as such the law is, in fact, not complicated and here, we will support it. However, we still need to look back at the problem of genetically modified food, which is, in fact, that our public and all of us together know why we're even making some law. So here's a little bit of a reminder, which is genetically modified food or organisms. So, organisms whose genetic material has been changed in a way that doesn't happen in nature, it's also called genetic engineering, genetic technology, or recombinant DNA technology. We wonder why GM food is made in the first place. Of course, it has its advantages in relation to conventional food in the first place because of the lower price, the longer life of the product, the nutritional value, greater resistance than the pests and plant diseases. Today, a total of 16 genetically modified cultures are being raised, and here, a colleague has already mentioned them, but we are always wondering what are the potential risks to human health and what could be a danger to human health. From allergenicity, gene transfer, outcrossing, or crossings, which are possible environmental consequences and whether GM food is so safe at all. So that food has passed a risk assessment on the world market. So far, research probably doesn't pose a risk to human health, but three dots, right? What is the legal basis for the use and production of GM food in the Republic of Croatia? So we are harmonizing with the EU. In the EU, legislation is far more stringent than it is in America. We have laboratories for the control of GMOs, so here it is confirmed that two authorised laboratories in HZZ are in Zagreb and a seed testing laboratory at the Department of Seeding and Dispersion in Osijek. Here, the secretary of state said that was enough, and we hope to carry out as much control as possible that really respects the legislation in Croatia. So other than GM food, it should certainly be mentioned that GMOs are also used in medicine, for example in insulin production. We vaccinate our children with hepatitis B vaccine produced by the genetic engineering process, there is glucagon, thyrotropin, and then in experiments we use genetically modified mice as models for research into cancer, heart diseases, blood vessels, thickness, and here, science says that the use of genetic engineering in medicine still has great potential because it could replace genes associated with some serious diseases. If we go back to GMO food, which are so little more detailedly explained advantages, what does the literature say? So crops are more resistant to diseases, less exposure of agricultural workers to insecticides, can be grown on the same surface of a larger amount of crops, the crops obtained have an improved appearance or taste, the loss of thorns and prunes on crops, the rapid passing of seeds, and this is all justified by our human population that is really rapidly growing and in some ways we need to be fed together. Of course, however, there are shortages of GMO food. So reduced biodiversity, the escape of modified gene in nature, the sensitivity of insects, say bees to products for which synthesis information is carried by a modified gene, the appearance of allergies in humans, the occurrence of possible tumours in humans, the transfer of genes from modified plants to humans, the transfer of resistance to individual antibiotics from GM food to humans, the adverse impact on the environment. Of course, we are particularly concerned about the problem of allergies, the occurrence of chronic diseases and tumors. Now, so far there has been no evidence that there really is a long-term impact of GMOs on human health, but that doesn't mean that these evidence will never exist, so in any case, we support that research continues. If the possibility of modified genes being transferred from GM crops to other crops in the environment, for example, as regards GM soybeans, the profession advises that the distance should be about 5 to 10 meters in order to prevent pollination of other plants. Then there's a lot of talk about the adverse impact of glyphosate on the environment, but then, like those who do, propagate GM soy say that GM soybean has no adverse environmental impact but is actually the biggest problem with the use of glyphosate. The WHO itself has generally taken the view that there is no evidence that GM food is more dangerous to human health than conventional food. I came across the data that here, more than 150 to 170 Nobel Prize winners are pushing for further research and production of GM food because of the many benefits we have already mentioned that such food can bring, but of course as much independent research as possible to see long-term effects. We have been in the Republic of Croatia since 2003 already with the laws adopted on the regulation of GMOs, we said that if food contains a smaller proportion of 0.9% of GMOs, it is considered pollutions and then it is not necessary to indicate that it is genetically modified, however, if the proportion is greater than 0.9% on the product should be indicated that it contains GMOs. This number of 0.9% was actually adopted arbitrarily, we would say, as a compromise between the manufacturer and the regulatory authorities, and there is no strictly scientific foothold, but here it is practically agreed. The public is quite skeptical, especially in the EU where I said it was stricter regulation than in America, because of all the negative stories in the media, we had here, many years ago and the problem of cow madness where the animals fed on that bone flour, is it, so it's still a big skeptic and afraid of GMO products. However, scientific research has shown that genetically modified plants, i.e. plants, or cultivators that have met the rigorous testing criteria, have no less impact on human health than conventional plant varieties. So what I'm saying here is everything science says, research so far, but I'm saying, we always have to keep in mind that as much testing as possible, the fact is that GMO food is the most tested food in human history, so that's at least 2,000 scientific research done on the security issue of GMOs. Most of the research, 58.3%, is independently funded, according to the data. They were conducted by researchers who had nothing to do with the companies involved in the development of GMOs. The EU Commission has concluded whether or not GMO food is safe, but still needs to work on research. We have committed ourselves by entering the EU to comply with European directives, and in this regard we are being carried out and controlled. So far it has been observed, or has not actually been found, since the presence of GMOs has been monitored since 2007, not a single case of adverse impact of GMOs on health, at least not in our country. But in any case, controls and inspections must really be as regular as possible. Monitoring was carried out quite detailing in 2015, especially for children's food producers, with respect to the products of the conditioning industry, meat and baker's additives, and some 200 controls annually, you said in 2021 over 200 controls and some 10% to 20% of those products containing up to 0.9% of the presence of GMOs and as such must be specifically marked and singled out. Our public must indeed know that we prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified plants, but imports and sales of products that have less than 0.9% of GMOs, as well as the import of GM feed. However, we are very concerned with the traceability of food, so products must be declared and the problem is the use of those foods they have I'll still look back on the individual, I've got a few more things to say. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118691	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the honourable representative Ivan Kirin will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118692	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This final draft of the law aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. GMOs are any organism whose genetic material has been altered using genetic engineering techniques. The precise definition of genetic engineering varies, but most often it is thought of the intentional change of organisms in a way that does not occur by reproduction or spontaneous recombination in nature. The man genetically modified a large number of species, from bacteria and viruses to plants and animals. Genetically modified plants produced today are mostly 16 soybeans, cotton, corn and rape oil. In Croatia it is prohibited to grow GMOs, but it is allowed to import and sell products that have less than 0.9% of GMOs, as well as imports of livestock. In Croatia and the EU, about 35 million tonnes of GM soybean are imported annually, however, meat and milk products from animals fed to GM crops do not have to be declared and therefore we do not know the traceability of meat, milk and meat products we eat. This is about the necessity of the traceability of the product from farm to table, i.e. it will show us whether something is GMO free or not. We may place on the market products containing, consisting of or produced from GM oilseed rape, soybeans, corn and cotton, which shall not indicate that they contain GMOs if its share in the product is not greater and does not exceed 0.9%. This limit of 0.9% is set by rules in force in the EU. That figure doesn't have a foothold in scientific research. It is fictional and a kind of compromise between GMOs and regulatory bodies. Sanitary inspection in Croatia determines 10-20% of products with GMOs annually, but below 0.9%. This Act implementing the EU Regulation on traceability and labelling of genetically modified food and feed for animals. The proposed Law revises so far the provisions of the laws governing the implementation of certain provisions of the 2003 Regulation. In the meantime, a new Regulation of 1831 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on transparency and sustainability of the risk assessment in the food chain was adopted. The principle of opportunity has been introduced in the case of certain infringements, which relate to the labelling and traceability of GM food and GM feed for animals not intended simply for the end consumer for which an even fine of 30 to 50 thousand kuna is prescribed. Violent provisions are also defined, and the levels of fines are adjusted to the severity of the offence committed taking into account the possible impact on health and consumer protection. Where a specific genetically modified food and feed is produced by GMOs, which even fulfils the requirements laid down in the 2003 provisions. It poses a risk to human, environmental or animal health, where inspectors are authorised to temporarily prohibit the placing on the market and food in the area of the Republic of Croatia, order its withdrawal from the market of the Republic of Croatia and limit its availability to consumers on the market of the Republic of Croatia. Official controls of the implementing law shall be carried out by the sanitary and veterinary and agricultural inspectors of the State Inspectorate, of course, in accordance with the rules governing the work of the State Inspectorate and the regulations governing the handling of GMOs and the rules governing the area of food. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the budget. In relation to the text of the draft law which passed the first reading in HS, an additional nomotechnically completed article is added. 5th and 5th and 6th of the final draft of the law in such a way that it is prescribed that the payment of fines at the place of the offence is not formal. Thank you for your attention and may the dear God protect you and, of course, HDZ will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118693	We're going to an individual debate and the first one will speak to a respected representative, Mariana Petir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118694	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, a representative and a representative. Croatia is a small country with a relatively well-preserved environment, but we are polluters in regional and global terms, about 50% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is protected in different categories of the Nature Protection Act, the Adriatic is the cleanest sea in the Mediterranean, our peasant still produces food in a traditional way, all of which are advantages that we need to take into account, which are our good starting position which strengthens our competitiveness against others and therefore it is important that we keep Croatia this beautiful, natural and sovereign, and sovereignty and part of sovereignty is both a form and a biological sovereignty. That's why this activity we've been doing is important, so I would say in the last 20 years, which we have achieved for all the counties in Croatia to declare GMOs free by the decisions of their representative bodies. In all counties, a decision has been made to prohibit the seeds of genetically modified seeds, even for experimental purposes, and we can rightly say that Croatia is a country where such seeds are not sown, nor is GMO food produced. Since we want it to stay that way in the future, and we are aware that they do not know the bees, the wind or the waters that cross the state's borders, which is GMO, which is not. The aim is for our neighbours to take the same approach, and for this reason, the Agriculture Committee has proposed, and HS adopted a unanimous Declaration on the Alpe-Adria-Dunav area free of GMOs which we have confirmed our role as leader in the initiative that this entire region, the whole environment, is free of charge, but we have also called for a greater promotion of organic production, to strengthen control laboratories, their equipment and capacitation, and we have also suggested that we make legislation that we prescribe how a particular product produced in Croatia can get a GMO free label. Since practices vary in different Member States, the EU does not have a single regulation, we have the freedom to create such a legal framework ourselves. We have received positive feedback from the Ministry of Agriculture that they support this initiative and that they will go in the right direction, and today I am pleased that the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health has also shown themselves positively about this proposal and I think it will go in a good direction because it is really important for us to position Croatia as a GMO free country so that it is not only at the level of message and marketing that is important and which can certainly mean a lot to tourists because they are looking more and more for a gastro-experience, looking for insight into our cultural traditional heritage, our identity, what we are proud of, therefore, is no longer focused on just the sun and the sea and food in this offer, and especially if this food is going to be marked as GMO free, it will certainly achieve a better success in the market. In that sense, we have launched initiatives towards countries located in the Alps-Adria-Dunav area, addressed our ambition, invited them to cooperate, and I am glad that positive feedback is coming, so I have no doubt about the success of this activity. Of course, no matter what we've done, the work itself is still not done, and I would agree with those who said it was important to be on guard, that it is important to strengthen inspection services, to carry out controls in that sense, and I am glad that the data available to us by the state inspectorate shows at least from what I have that we have no cause for concern because, especially when it comes to seeds, no sample has been found that would be polluted with genetically modified observations, and so is food for human use and cattle. And in that sense, I encourage competent services to make these controls more or more frequent and firmer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118695	Thank you very much. You have replicas. Mr. Brcic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118696	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, as surely as in many topics and here there are reluctant thinking primarily from the profession when it comes to GMOs, some are radically asking GMOs or hunger. On the other hand, there are those so-called. The middle path that they occupy, which is that genetic engineering could be allowed between, for example, the same species of plant-based plant, and in no case of plant-type genetic engineering to penetrate the animal world and vice versa, here's why I'm interested in your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118697	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118698	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Brcic. Well, I'd say like this, I don't think the matter of hunger is a matter of food, it's a matter of politics. So if we want to have a fair distribution then we have to make different political decisions than the ones we've made, I don't mean us as Croatia, but I think globally on a global scale because we know that there are unfortunately parts of the world where children die from hunger, while in some other parts of the world, there are enormous amounts of food being thrown away. So with some normal balance and redistribution, I'm sure things could be different. So I don't think that GMOs can help solve hunger at all, GMOs can help destroy biodiversity, although we have heard some arguments that there's not enough data on the impact on human health yet. I had the opportunity to see the research of esteemed scientists who were doing experiments with GMO potatoes on mice and you could see to cause cancer. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118699	Mrs. Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118700	Dear MPs, the fact to be pointed out when it comes to GMO technology is that the human population is growing inexorably. In the 20th century alone, the number of people rose from 1.5 billion to 6.1 billion while the current number increased to about 7.7 billion and continued to grow. So my question is how do you feed such a population that is rapidly growing while the surface of the earth is growing, and especially the surface of arable land does not increase? If it is to judge by current indicators the area of arable land is increasingly reduced due to pollution and wear-out. Solutions like GM crops, it says, make a better contribution in the same big field, and they're more durable and they had to show up. We therefore see that GM food technology is constantly progressing, which could lead to a reduction of unwanted consequences. Please comment on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118701	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118702	Thank you colleagues Ban Vlahek, so I think that GMOs are not a solution and that mainly those studies that are quoted are circulating are funded by multinational companies and are aimed at better positioning GMO seeds, but then the terminator of the market, which is devastating for domestic food production and generally for agriculture because it creates a complete dependence on you buying seeds, so you buy on this basis you can no longer shine your seed, but you have to re-purchase new and new, that such seeds are exclusively related to certain herbicides and pesticides, you can no longer use any other product of this same multinational company. When you spray those crops, you've destroyed all the other plant and animal world, so you've destroyed the entire biodiversity, not to mention contamination that can happen. I would advocate, as I said in my previous response, that political decisions are made so that those hungry and poor are not further destituted from being taken away from them. countries, so that their forests are not destroyed and that they are not exploited as it seems now. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118703	Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118704	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I think it is important or should be important that we eat and take care of the traceability of food, but the fact is that meat and dairy products produced from animals that have been fed to GM crops do not have to be declared GM products, so this is actually inconsistencies, right? In addition, dietary additives obtained with the help of GMOs are also used and must not be marked and declared G, so that we do not actually know the traceability of meat, milk and meat products that we eat. Is that unfair? I trust you'll agree that and how does that change? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118705	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118706	Thank you, colleague Maric. So we buy homework because we don't generally use GMO food or use such substances in production. If we buy what Croatian origins are, then we can be sure that we eat GMOs free food. With this law we are working on, I believe that we will certainly be able to prove this traceability, or any product that will have a GMO free label will have to prove it. The fact that practices in Member States that have introduced GMOs are different and it is really difficult to find unique examples at all where you have the possibility of using GMOs up to a certain age or number of months of animal life, and then before placing on the market is a certain number of days or months to not feed. Of course, these are all topics for discussion, but this topic should move us to realize what kind of natural wealth we have, what we have, what our responsibility is, and how in this sense we should behave in the future. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118707	Mrs. Vukemilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118708	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Petir, you have touched an important topic, which is that Croatia is definitely not an island, it is part of the EU, but it is also a border state and we in the neighborhood have countries that have different legislation and here is praise worth your initiative that we have what we have here, and related to GMOs also expand somehow to this environment. I will just remind everyone of what our beekeepers face every year, it is a bee killing and where inspections on the ground have proved that they are used on certain pesticides and certain protection products that are not allowed in the EU, and are imported by individuals from neighbouring countries and it is well caused by this killing of bees that we have often talked about in this high house, so that we can make GMO free not only Croatia and the EU but also... Thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118709	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118710	Thank you, colleague Vucilović, for your support, so I have been working really long on it, not alone but with the scientific bioethical community of the professional community and the problem is multiple, but I am glad that it is recognized from different sides and that we are all in agreement that we are unique and that we want to preserve it, that it is important to encourage not only our neighbours but also much wider. I think that the EU or Member States react quite well despite the strong pressures and the pressures we felt when I was in the European Parliament by the European Commission who has continued to re-register and re-register new GMOs, which the European Parliament has regularly refused, so that, apart from Spain and Portugal, there is no area, on European soil, in fact, sowing such seeds, but there are constant attempts and pressures that are both fact and in that sense, we also need to develop our own defence mechanism.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118711	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Antholic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118712	... GMO free countries in the area of tourism, so also when you drive towards the sea which is the most important destination of our tourists for the time being, we hope that continental tourism will flourish, as well as because of this healthy food, because what you think is enough is to support small producers to remain profitable, to survive especially when we now know the situation in both dairy and other livestock branches where it is truly impossible to survive without strong support from the state. [[Last-on speaker]] All prohibitions, all norms, any norms will lead to less and less food and more pressure pressures to introduce GMOs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118713	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118714	Thank you, colleague Antoliæ Vupra, so I think the chance for small producers is precisely this GMO free approach that we have taken and the chance for them to produce as much as they can, and these are mostly small quantities, but quality products. I haven't met one more person, and I've met a lot of people in my political work and in general in a life that would remain indifferent to Croatian food, our food tastes good, you know, when you taste that food, you're full of mouth and you're going to talk and that's the best propaganda. So in that sense, small producers are key to us. What we must support them in is that they have better infrastructure, that they manage to increase their quantities a little bit. Here we talked recently, was interested in buying two thousand tons of cuisine that was a winning tower, and man had only one more tower for the next tower he also wanted to win, so here we have to work on, on production.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118715	Thank you. Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118716	Thank you very much. My colleagues agree with you that GMOs should preferably be not only Croatia but the whole of Europe, and then perhaps the whole world, but in any case I think it is an advantage to our tourism, but also to the health of citizens. Here at the last point we talked about exactly and about food safety, we can somehow link it and now, so we try to throw out as much GMOs as possible and actually offer our tourists, but also to our citizens healthy food and become a healthy tourist gastro-destination. As you said our kitchen is very good and very characteristic and recognizable and this is just an additional incentive why tourists and what tourists should be looking for in our region, especially here I am talking about continental tourism and those short supply chains where the OPGs are also engaged in tourism and therefore with, literally, you have situations from field to table.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118717	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118718	Thank you. A colleague of Hajdukovic, rural tourism really has a great perspective in the Republic of Croatia and we record both growth and crown as much damage as it has done in various segments of our lives has actually made this wealth of the continent aware, a variety that is truly special from the end to the end and made that important offer of local food. In this sense, it is certainly necessary to work to support the formation of short chains. As far as I know, here are the tourist communities and the LAGs have some of their attempts to record products, local products in some area and tie them to the caterers, but it must be stronger and more productive. In this regard, we, as a committee, have also advocated that additional support measures or incentives or tax reliefs or additional starry, extra sunflowers, be introduced for those offering hospitality and hotelization of local domestic Croatian products to support them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118719	Thank you. Mr. Ivanovic, and I'm sorry Mr. Ivanovic has, you don't have this replica anymore, I apologize. Mr. Ivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118720	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Here today the whole day discussion in HS is basically about agriculture, about food, about everything that goes along with it, so here I'm going to start my exhibition in a slightly different way. At school, the kids were either, and now the teacher asked Joza what they were eating in general, so Joza says when we have money, then she says we eat parizer, pizza, pasta and stuff, and she says when you don't have it, then we eat ham, bacon, cooken and stuff like that, so there we have it, comes up with these reverse thesis. Here in some discussions, it was clearly defined. The world has 8 billion inhabitants, maybe a million to 8 billion, and food is already a problem and it will be a terrible problem in the future and we all agree that we need to eat healthy, that GMOs of course do not need to discuss it at all. Croatia has a clear view there, even local, regional self-government has brought to it that GMOs are free zones as far as this is concerned. But in order for us to really be two components are very important. The first one's a seed. So we must have our seeds that will not be modified, which will be pure, indigenous seeds of Croatian species. We have two great institutes. Right? One is in Zagreb, one is in Osijek, which has been doing seeds for centuries not only for Croatia, but also for export. And what else is more important is production. So we have to raise production if we want Croats to eat healthy food, so they can buy it we have to produce such food. We now produce healthy food. At a worldwide food festival in America last year or before 100 products, Croats took 98 first places in various categories, 98 out of 100. But that food goes for export. In our trade chains, we buy something completely different, something that will sooner or later interfere with what we're talking about. Therefore, I think that Croatia has an extraordinary opportunity, and it is slowly opening and creating in the geostrategic environment where we are also on geostrategic occasions that have hit this part of Europe, I think it is important to open the eyes and the Ministry of Agriculture, so here it is sitting here and the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture where we are really trying to find this kind of, this initial drop that will start Croatian agriculture. I come from the village, here's most of us from rural areas. I live in a village that has 500 households, 1300 inhabitants, and practically every household has a small plot. However, 80% of these parcels are unprocessed. So we can actually produce for our household the healthiest food you can't buy in any store. However, capitalism as a system that simply does not know these indigenous traditional things, it simply tramples everything in front of it and wants to impose what is fast food, what food is full of additives, substances that are absolutely not healthy and what counterpart Brcic said comes from Dalmatia. There people get diseases they've never been sick of. Why? In part, it is because of food, and even Slavons do not suffer from the food they ate 20 or 30 years ago when they produced it themselves on their own properties, but we suffer from food that now naturally comes half-frozen or permanently frozen for several years. Of course, the price is dumped, and so is people, of course, because of their paid power, they can't afford anything else. Therefore, I absolutely welcome this, but I also see a great opportunity for Croatian agriculture. A million and 300,000 ha of arable surface can feed Croats with healthy, clean, organic food that can make us much healthier, more potent, more efficient and therefore stick to it. Let's take our stand and let everyone else do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118721	Mr. Brcic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118722	... A respected colleague, so here's for sure one part of us goes back to the period when we remember that we were able to save our own products for a part for the seed. [[Specially enabled.]] Unfortunately, this is certainly the time that has passed now, and it is necessary if we want to produce, it is necessary to have, buy or seed and it is good here that you emphasized that in your Osijek we have as much as I am directed by more than 20 and some kinds of seeds. Surely this is a good situation, that we can produce quality products. I wonder if these existing names are called seed banks have a future or are under this monopoly globally condemned to a short period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118723	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118724	The fight will certainly be difficult and there is no speech. But let's just remember the debate a few months ago when we were discussing the Seed Act and there was the Ministry of Agriculture, in particular the Agriculture Committee showed and proved that between the first and second readings, in particular Article 16 which did not exactly go hand in hand to small seed producers managed to preserve and allow indigenous seed species to still be available so that I think there lies the key to success, and this battle of course will be very, very difficult. It's hard to fight big manufacturers if we assume that Ukraine was one of the larger seed producers. There will be major market disturbances, but we keep what we have, and these are the two institutes that have proven themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118725	Thank you. Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118726	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. With this opening example, you brought me back to childhood when we had money, and then we ate white bread, and otherwise we ate black bread. Yeah? However, the fact that we are still evolving over time, and then we know that what is unhealthy is to avoid a type of white food, white bread, etc. and eat what is healthier and more domestic, and in this sense I believe that you will agree that we should work on the education of our population and stimulate them to eat domestic organically produced as well as healthy. The second thing, we would also like to be a tourist country, but also that country that strives to preserve and improve our producers and our agriculture should also stimulate as many acquisitions as possible, here, specifically, GMOs free certificates. I've come across only a few here. So the first was Cekin's fresh chicken, Vindy's cattle food factory Blagodar, so I came across a Vindon holiday GMO free turkey and a vinkovary Agro-claster for GMO free eggs So it's still very small, how to stimulate them and manufacturers to obtain GMOs free certificates? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118727	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118728	It's always the best way to talk about it. I think we're still not talking about it, maybe too little and we're educating children from their earliest age. Food isn't cheap and food can't be cheap. The manufacturer must earn, not the trader, the one who resells rather than the manufacturer, especially if it comes to healthy food and I agree with all those who want to introduce a tax on all those products that contain huge amounts of sugar, everything that makes this nation, and all others, unhealthy. I'll just say one thing, back in the '70s, a kilo of bread cost, like five dinars, and a kilo of sugar cost 20 dinars. Now we have a reverse situation that a kilo of sugar costs 4,5 or 5 kuna, and a kilo of bread, not a kilo of bread, but 500 grams of bread you pay for 10, 11 or 12 kuna. It's certainly not good and it needs to be changed. [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118729	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118730	Your Honor, we agreed that healthy food should be eaten, as much as possible to produce healthy food. But in times where people don't have the money to live with dignity, let alone pay for healthy food which, as you said, is reasonable to be even higher, tell me, how will they afford it? The only thing I can do is work at home, like you said at the beginning and do your own crops and produce my own food, but because of the nature of the job and we all see, because of the fast way of life, a lot of young families and a lot of the older ones don't have time to produce their own food, and the next question, if we're buying healthy food in the markets, we said we should eat fresh fruit and vegetables, how will these people recognize GMO products? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118731	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118732	Thank you very much for asking. Once upon a time, the village fed the city. It's got to come back. The rural Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem, Lika, Zagora cannot survive if healthy food is not produced there and sold on markets in Split, Zagreb, Varazdin, Osijek or... So our parents lived for 30 years, they weren't free textbooks or transportation, nothing, nothing was free. Therefore, we must return the village to where it belongs. And this second part of the question is also related to, as the distinguished representative Maric said, we need to work on that education, people need to know how to recognize, read, monitor and see what products they are dealing with. Of course, products that are not what they should be, avoid, avoid buying, even moreover, wouldn't be bad enough to publish some black lists of manufacturers who want to sell a candle under a horn or horn under a candle anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118733	Thank you. Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118734	Thank you very much, dear colleague. In fact, I'm going to start where you're done, and I'm proposing blacklists, maybe even in unfair commercial practices, at the introduction of the euro, but I don't see why we shouldn't have them here. But my question may be a little rhetorical, but I'd like to hear your opinion as well. How do you actually encourage manufacturers to use as few GMOs as possible? Because GMOs mean cheaper production, faster, higher yields, etc., etc., so that the producers themselves are highly motivated to use GMO seeds and so on in their production because their yields are higher, and thus profits. What kind of product is that, in the end, we can talk about it, so we have tomatoes that don't taste like anything. But the fact is that today, in today's world and free market, everything is a bill, a balance, a profit and a loss, not exactly what kind of food we eat. In what way and tools might we encourage manufacturers to think more about what kind of food products?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118735	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118736	Thank you very much. Well, I'd say by the principle of carrots and beatings. There is no other method, to stimulate those who really do it in the way they should, and those who do not, of course, punish and this law has provided for just that and good laws, if we make them can contribute to it. Although I say, it won't be, it's not an easy fight. Unfair trading practices, cartels, so these are practically mob organizations that legally exist. That's what we've got here. Today we're harvesting. The harvest's coming to an end. The defined price of wheat is not equivalent to what we see on the European market. Croatia has somehow remained slightly below that level, but we have as many buyers as we have, they offer as much as they offer, take or leave, if you have nowhere to store, you have a big problem. But I think you can use those tools that you've been talking about in blacklists and all of what you've been talking about. It's in favor of that, you can put an end to it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] In a year's time, but in front of us, I'm sure. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118737	- Mrs. Crescent. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118738	Thank you, Vice President, colleague Ivanovic. When I was still a little girl, then my parents taught me that only a peasant could live in harmony with man, God and nature, because only a peasant knows that God forgives everyone, a man for someone, and nature for no one. So we have to take care of nature because if we run processes like the release of living genetically modified organisms into the environment, these processes will be irrevocable and the impact we give nature will bring nature back to us. So GMOs and nature can't live in co-existence, there's no co-existence, that's clear, but nature and organic agriculture can live in co-existence, so I'm curious, do you think Croatia has a good chance of developing organic production? Will the action plan for the development of organic production now in public debate help? And do you think maybe it should be calculated with those negative examples that you mention when you travel and see them, which actually spoils that one image and throws The shadow of organic production? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118739	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118740	Thank you very much. So, unfortunately, because of one bad example that went under the radar, they all suffer, and then it's thought that organic production is some production where you can take a good incentive, you don't practically have to surrender. Nothing like that. I'm for it we can't make 20 tons of grain on a hectare, it's not working. It can be modified with a modified seed, but it has its own lifetime and irrevocable consequences that we will never return. What you said, nature doesn't forgive those things. America has been through some other countries. Therefore, Croatia has an extraordinary opportunity, has a geostrategic position, has water, has forests, has a farmland. Now, all we need is this mechanism that will restore the rural part of Croatia to where it was, which is that it produces exactly that food that will then be large. or less big cities consume and be sure of what they bought. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118741	Mrs. Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118742	Dear Representative, we are witnessing a time when paper starches that kept our grandmother's homemade seeds were replaced by colorful packets with beautiful icons, giant tomatoes and similar beautiful decorations, which, unfortunately, later on in the office proved to be none of it. But I'm just going to use that icon from our past, so maybe now and the future to question you, so that's what you've touched, and that's the issue of seminary. So the seed is something that we simply encourage and that we have to conclude it all together and conclude by keeping and encouraging these old varieties of ours so that future species and varieties actually survive. and actually brought this new and good super food to Croatia. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118743	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118744	Thank you very much. Yes, the challenges of time are something that no one can resist, our grandparents, our grandfathers kept the seeds of course when the season ended, the seeds were kept for spring seed and that was something that was somehow a tradition. When you leave the tradition in any form, then you face this. Of course, when you come to the store and that coloring over there and you really see that bag with some giant tomatoes and you think why these are too small for me to have. But once you change genetics then it's over then there's no going back to the old ones then there's no more old seeds, is there what's carved up with this seed that you buy this way and there's a problem. Therefore, the return to and Europe through its common agricultural policy is about to return, which is where Croatia has the advantage of not being as polluted as the rest of the EU. Therefore, if this comparative Let's take advantage of it. I think we're much closer to the goal we're trying to achieve. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118745	Mrs. Vukemilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118746	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Ivanovic, you have opened a number of topics, the time of harvest is the ransom price of 2.20 for wheat is the lowest compared to all countries in the environment. We left the warlords at the mercy of the redeemers, the buyers, all those who have silos. We have cattle growing on our knees at four times the price of artificial fertiliser with a blue diesel of 9.5 kuna they ask why all this. We are now talking about being a GMO free country, etc. And it's all great, it's all wonderful, but our warlords, our peasants, every day, wonder if they're packing bags, going to Germany, or still working the country. I hope that all of us here are aware of that because these are facts, you come from the same neighborhood as me and people are showing us what's happening to the warriors today it's really outrageous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118747	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118748	Yes, harvest is the time of year when every food producer, especially warlords should be charged for what they spent in the crops and earn something they will need for the autumn seed that will come very soon. I absolutely agree that this is unfair, says that even some of these buyers are taking a 70-pound margin, now imagine that without a shred of invested work, they take 70 limes per kilogram of grain just because they have money to pay for it and they have a place to store it or that grain is going somewhere further and not at a price of 2.20, but at a price of maybe 2.90, and even up to three kunas. These are things that we have to deal with seriously, and I think the Ministry of Agriculture, too, and here are the meetings of the Committee on Agriculture, and there is a debate on this. We need to strengthen that, but the market is ruthless. And the stock reserves don't buy extras anymore, and that might be one of the solutions. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118749	Thank you. And finally Mrs. Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118750	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague Ivanovic, food additives are not considered food because they do not have nutritious values but only improve some of the properties of food such as color, texture and volume. The laws are not strict on these derived products, so it is very easy to introduce with some intruders GMOs even though they should not be. Here, for example. One of the biggest buns is the most beautiful, that red tomato is a beautiful especially sour food, sour meat, canned, sausages and I'm not saying it. Now the question is they look very nice, but is that healthy, so I'm interested in your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118751	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118752	Yeah, well, when you take the fruit juice, and then you read on it that the share of the fruit in it is 5% or 7%, of course you understand what it's all about. Today, even the food industry is going to write that there are no additives, no taste enhancers, there's nothing to it with all of them being used and they've been using it very intensively. This has brought terrible problems I would say that even part of these health problems that we have are the cause of the very things that have appeared to people and all of this seemed beautiful to them, they haven't read the declarations, I haven't read them either, but these data are astounding, they can amaze everyone, so so are I and you, but here's the opportunity for us, we just need to know how to use it and I think it can be much better, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118753	Thank you, you have no more replicas, and now it's Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118754	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, so I think it's important for the Croatian public to say what GMOs really are and our institutes are dealing with the production of genetically modified seeds, for example, because genetic modification is your choice of better seed, not your choice of worse seed, germination, etc., so we can characterize all this as genetic, genetic modification. But the genetic modification we're talking about today has far more far-reaching consequences and is much more invasive and different than I just mentioned. In any case, I think it is important to bring Croatia's legislation into line with this directive precisely because we have the ambition to be a GMO free country or if we do not need to have for more reasons first of all the health of our citizens, and then a whole series of other advantages that we can achieve, some of them have been mentioned before. Here's a colleague Petir was talking about a gastro offer, let's say a tourist that would certainly contribute to the promotion of Croatia, especially continental Croatia as an attractive, attractive destination. When we talk about GMOs, first of all, what we need to talk about is labelling, means consistent strict labelling of food or food products that, in which GMOs, GMOs or agricultural products are used, which are grown by means of the mentioned food, should therefore be ruthless and clearly told to citizens, or should be informed about what food they eat. Another thing is the certification of GMOs free of charge whether it is agricultural producers or others, so also strict and consistent certification, which is, like that stamp, “Bought Croatia”, so GMOs should also become something that attracts attention to consumers, which is why consumers, consumers, pardons, should choose to buy a particular product. Public education is also very important through our school system, but also generally through the media and in every way that we can reach our citizens, we need to repeat how important this is and how much we should pay attention to what they eat. And last and that may be the most important thing to do is to raise our citizens' standards because if they don't have the power to pay, then they won't think about what they're buying but how much they're buying for. When they have paid power then they will think and what they buy, so if they have enough money to decide on products that are GMOs free, which are quality, which are domestic, which are from short supply chains then we actually have our main goal and achieved because I believe that if they have the money to think in any way about what they eat and watch as healthy as possible, literally from the field on the table and GMOs free food, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118755	It's a break or it's over?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118756	Yeah, it's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118757	And well, all right, I never know because I've made many mistakes, I've been in breaks. - Mrs. Crescent. Mirjana, Mariana Petir, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118758	Thank you very much. Comrade Hajdukovic, I think it is very important to clarify the difference between plant processing and genetic modification. Plant fertilization is a process that we want to gain better properties within the same species, and genetic modification is when we transfer the gene of one species to another, for example when we transfer the fish gene into the tomatoes, when we transfer the bacteria or virus gene into the corn, so we then cross these natural barriers, mix the genes of different species, we don't know what we will ultimately get, and how it will further affect, although research shows very negatively on biodiversity, and we already have some research that shows that there is this negative impact on human health. Does it seem to you that perhaps because very often the concepts are being puzzled and it is a very sharp and well-funded propaganda of multinational companies would be much clearer and stronger to educate the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118759	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118760	Thank you very much. Absolutely, because, as I like to say in my past life or in my life before politics and I was a pedagogical or educator, I think that in education there is a key and the public should be educated, which means genetic modification and which means bringing GMOs through food, which are long-term consequences and what that means for them, and then I'm sure they'll be more motivated to ask for, let's say, a GMO certificate free. But at the same time, I would take advantage of the time I have left, you have presented a great idea of certification also of catering facilities serving GMOs free food or food with, from the Croatian fields of local producers etc., they want to be stars, sunflowers about it now we can talk about it, it's less important, but I think it would also contribute to raising the quality of our gastro-proposal both on the continent and on the coast.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118761	Mr. Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118762	Thank you. A respected colleague, when you mention GMOs, when you say GMOs usually cause negative connotations, people usually think it's a bad thing, that it's something unhealthy, something very harmful and so on. But genetic engineering as a method and genetic modification actually had its own positive meaning and actually wanted to make something better, something more quality, something that was healthier, something that was more resistant, to change some genes that were damaged in the organism, to make it less likely to develop further diseases, so here it is in food. Now, I'm usually wondering if you might know how far this has gone in production and agriculture since I'm not in agriculture, have these effects of modification genetically brought more useful or harmful than this media that actually makes any marketing sense? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118763	Here's the answer you're dealing with agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118764	I who do agriculture, yes, thank you. Thank you, colleague, and this is actually a question that takes longer. So it would be very ambitious to try to answer that in a minute. Surely there are those who will tell you that the effects of GM food production are good, positive, to produce more, to invest less, etc., etc. They have those who will tell you that it's not healthy, that long-term consequences are very harmful, as always, the truth is probably somewhere in the middle, but until we have clear evidence, or until the evidence, at least the ones I'm familiar with, for now, weighs more on the side of the long-term bad, I'd be very careful here and represent this, let's just say, cautious policy. In any case, the clear labelling of GMO food and GMO products may be the first step.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118765	- Mrs. Crescent. Vucijlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118766	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Hajdukovic. Now, let's go to any chain of commerce, and they're screaming domestically, originally, environmentally, and all the monets without cover. Nothing to do with anything, it is enough to repack apples from Poland to get a label produced in Croatia. Just because it's put in some nylon foil, we have the beads made of pork from Germany in plastic pots from Serbia, and it's beautifully written originally Croatian on them. So that marking is one forest of lies, the lies and the deception of our consumers in which order should be made, and I'm glad you touched that in your presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118767	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118768	Thank you, colleague Vucilović. Yeah, that's why I said, you need to be consistent and strict in marking and treating such marked products because, I agree with you, you can find things on the shelves of our malls and you'll see that it's often done, let's say about tomatoes, or how I like to say, in our neighborhood, tomatoes, which are beautiful-looking, but when you eat it doesn't taste at all, while the one you've grown yourself in your own garden, often doesn't look so representative, but it tastes, and it tastes sweet, like, it's sweet to eat it. It's on one side. On the other hand, you have some sales chains that are a little stricter and a little more consistent, but that's their policy, and I don't want to advertise anyone here now, so I'm not going to single out any of them, but here, let's say, I often buy in one that can really boast about the high quality of the product. I can't say it's from Croatia, although they say so, but the fact is that it's much better, let's say tomatoes, but which you'll buy at other malls.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118769	Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118770	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. Here, I'm gonna try a little bit of a saw to turn this one upside down. Uh, we're talking here with a certain set, nostalgia, about the time behind us from 30, 50 and more years ago as if it was really all so great, wonderful, I'm talking about old seed varieties, old fruit varieties, vegetables, etc., is it? At the same time, we forget that the offerings were half smaller then, not to say more than half smaller and that simply, if we stayed on those offerings, we wouldn't have enough food today, practically for half the population in the world. We also forget that simply the need for food is growing more and more and more and that, without any artificial fertilisers, protective means, it is difficult for them to achieve such yields and meet simply our needs. Well, people's lives have grown, that's a fact. It's extended, it's significantly extended, so it's not all so black and we should [[Thank you very much.]] be as realistic as possible in all these processes that are inevitable and we should [[/Intruder: Time. Time.]] in a way... [[We, we'll...]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118771	...to take advantage of what you've extended that century. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118772	Well, I agree with you, pal. That's why even when I was answering my colleague Karlic, I also said that the truth is probably somewhere in the middle, and that's where I should be careful, at least that's how I see it. But as for the past, here, ask any of us, no matter how young or older. Is it better now or sooner, everyone will tell you it was better before. I guess that's because we're willing to remember only good things, and we forget the bad things often. We should try to protect our indigenous species, away from it, and because of some of our heritage and history, and also because of the facts are often, that it is about quality varieties. But yes, I agree with you. There are serious problems that will cause the population to grow exponentially, especially in Africa. But also the war in Ukraine affects supply chains, Ukraine and Russia are still the largest producers of cereals, so there will be major disturbances that will not feel Europe so much, perhaps through purchases. But Africa, for example, will.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118773	Answer, here you go. Here you go. [[Intruder: He replied.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118774	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague. I'm going to move on a little bit to what the esteemed representative Shashin said. Yeah, we're still here for generations that are slightly older, something that remembers those tastes, smells that were, tastes and smells of our childhood when life was completely different. We now have one problem that is not closely related to GMOs. Chuck, let's put it out of context, share 0.9%, we don't have to discuss it at all. But we have a problem with others, which our children learned from those other eyes, doesn't taste or smell and they don't smell anything that tastes and smells actually isn't and doesn't feel like us anymore. What to do and what to do besides, of course, introduce into kindergartens, elementary schools and all that we have in the project in Osijek-Baranja County that we are simply dealing with these tastes, smells, And to realize that it's healthy. [[Thank you. Time. Time.]] Otherwise we'll have a big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118775	I'm sorry, Mr. Hajdukovic, Mr. Ivanovic, I have to tell you, you have every right, they have more taste and more smell, but I'm an older generation than you are, but what was on the outside was better. Remember? Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118776	Thank you. They say it's always what's other people's sweeter. But that I might agree in some way with you. But I don't know you're probably right. But if you ask me the carrot we ate before and the carrot we eat now, what we eat now is clean water and some hard stuff. Here, I feel like I'm chewing nothing. I think when our kids try that real carrot, they'll still be surprised in a positive way. Yes, but I agree with you, we should have more of these projects and what is done in Osijek-Baranja County is a really good project "From Field to Table" on the school table. We're talking about vegetables, we're talking about fruit first. So products that come directly and fresh to schools which have a double advantage. First of all, our children eat healthy, and on the other hand we expose them to some good things, and these are really quality products.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118777	Thank you, Mr. Hajdukovic, you have no more replicas and now it is final on behalf of HDZ Mr. Mladen Karlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118778	Thank you, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here, as we have been talking about ourselves a little while ago, we are actually saying that as soon as we mention GMOs usually this kind of causes reaction either negative, whether positive, but most often not neutral especially when it comes to food, of course, that every mention of genetic modification in humans is causing some fear or doubt, and that is why it is very important that one of these laws is passed. Maybe just a few examples where you use genetically modified parts or products or medicines, vaccines, for example, here are people who are suffering from diabetes that use, which are insulin-dependent, it's genetically modified, some vaccines like this that we used in the corona of MRNA, so the carnister RNA, so where the genetic message actually sends the organism that we've entered into ourselves. Nothing bad happened to us, at least to most of us. The possibility of using genetic engineering in medicine is an extremely high potential because this technology can replace genes that are related to some serious diseases. And in fact, that way we can prevent, reduce, or especially those that are genetically transmitted in some way neutralize and improve the health of our citizens. The main and basic reason why food actually started to be genetically modified was to increase the resilience of especially plant food from pests, meaning plant diseases, and by creating some quality and better production, a greater quantity, so that would be healthier. But, of course, there are some dangers to the human organism, and that's why it needs to be cautious, and that's why it's important that everything is well declared, well marked when such genetic modification is used. It primarily means allergies, allergic reactions in some people who can cause such food, then... in human cells or bowel bacteria so that they can cause certain changes and diseases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The third problem is crossing especially in plants, meaning mixing these genetically modified and those indigenous in fields, and thus in some way polluting the healthy, organic production if it is not controlled. What is, of course, a public problem, there is a particular concern about the fact that the assessment of food safety, the European Food Safety Authority, in the area of the authorisation process of genetically modified food is based primarily on studies commissioned by industry to provide consumers with additional guarantees and to ensure access to all available, relevant scientific data and studies in the case of applications, it is appropriate to provide for and consult third parties with a view to establishing the availability of other relevant scientific data. In line with the above, it is proposed to adopt this law, where the legislative proposal in question will ensure that what is most important in the applicable legislation of the Republic of Croatia is brought into line with EU legislation and thus ensure that the amended provisions are applied directly in accordance with the said regulation. Unified treatment will be allowed for all stakeholders in the process of authorisation of GM food and feed for animals, with particular emphasis on the notification segment in the risk analysis process, the transparency of the data when approving food. Public, proactive and easily accessible access to all scientific data, information supporting requests for authorisation under EU law as well as other requirements for providing scientific results and at the earliest stage of risk assessment relating to the application or notification procedure, etc. applications in the procedure of authorisation of GM food and feed, extension of the authorisation of genetically modified food for the already selected genetically modified food. It will then strengthen the trust of the branches not only on food health regularity but also on the credibility of scientific data and studies that now applicants were, in the most part, industry, then competent authorities and all institutions in charge of forming an opinion on food safety or decisions taken in connection with granting approval or new authorisations and genetically modified food and as such same food and for animals. The Croatian Democratic Community club will, of course, support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118779	You, too. Mrs. Andreja Maric, the SDP representative club, is also final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118780	Thank you very much. Here's a few final thoughts I didn't get to say in the opening debate on behalf of the club. So 35 million tonnes of GM soybeans are imported into the EU every year, including in Croatia. However, meat and milk products produced from animals feeding GM crops under current legislation do not have to be declared, so we do not know the traceability of meat, milk and meat products we eat. Food additives obtained with the help of GMOs are also used in the diet and as such do not have to be declared GM products. This is actually inconsistencies because the final product on the shelf should also be marked if the livestock is fed to GMOs. So it's about the necessity and traceability of the farm-to-table product. We are, Croatia is a tourist country. There should be a clear indication of GMO free food and this is strongly linked to consumer safety. In any case, it is recommended for all consumers to read certificates carefully and, of course, eat food that is domestic and which is grown in an environmentally acceptable way, so already at the start of GMOs free. Food, therefore, would have the right to know what they buy, would have the right of choice, clear declarations and full information. In preparation, I came across an interesting, interesting statement by a professor who says that at a personal level choice of food without GMOs is a matter of literacy, style, identity and aesthetics, and at a national level is a free policy expression of sovereignty and agricultural independence. Also, the toxicology of GMO food and crops is not and should not be the only argument in the public debate, here is professor. Valery Vrček I liked that very much. In 2015, with 19 other EU members, we declared ourselves to be a country prohibiting the cultivation of genetically modified plants in all counties, so they declared themselves as early as possible for GMOs and we, as mentioned, should seek to have as many GMOs free certificates as possible. What is the procedure in order to obtain permission to use GMOs or certificates in Croatia should be requested from competent health institutions such as the Ministry of Health, and the European Food and Medicinal Products Agency is the competent institution in Europe. How to recognize GMO food, in any case I said already read the declarations, I guess we're all used to buying cosmetics and watching where paraben is free, bisphenols A, avoiding aluminum salts, etc., but we should encourage our citizens to read the declaration and food. In any event, there should be a clearer regulation which would make all products clearly marked, and among other things, in order to respect the traceability of food, so that both meat and meat products are further marked. I mentioned already that I was actually on a little GMO free certificate of products found, Cekin fresh chicken, Vindon holiday GMO free turkey and Vinkovac Agro-claster got a certificate for GMO free eggs, so it's still little and should actually educate the producers themselves in how to actually adapt to production, stimulate them to get GMO free certificates. We have already all more and more stated that there are major differences in regulations between the EU and America, there are a lot of major obstacles and, in fact, the pressure of industry and large producers, which is seeds such as Monsanto, which is a pesticide part, this especially such as Sigentag where the pressures are actually on to allow as many GMOs as possible, but in the EU as I said there is a different situation, there was also a big protest against Monsant in large cities, we hope that such pressures will not be made to the industry in Croatia. And at the end of what we need to do, what we need to do, so as much control as possible, as much inspection as possible for us not to have GMO products or food, I'm not talking about medicine, stimulation to be as many GMOs, incentives for domestic, organic production, so this is also an opportunity for our Croatian agriculture and for our production and, in any case, education and manufacturers and the population to feed as healthyly as possible and to stimulate our domestic production, thank you very much, we will support the law, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118781	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. The next item of the agenda is: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Plant Health, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 262. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. Provisions relating to second reading apply, and amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. The Minister of Agriculture is with us. Maria Vukkovic, would you like to take the opening word? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118784	Dear Vice President HS, MPs and MPs. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Plant Health is proposed. In the existing system governing this area, the experience of law enforcement authorities, as well as any work experience, and on the basis of the information collected from specialised entities, have identified certain needs of improvement related to the existing law, which is mainly evident in the regulation of the entry of plants, plant products and other objects in the border areas of the Republic of Croatia, the regulation of the approval of quarantine cells and space for isolation, the introduction of information systems in the field of plant health and the regulation of fines for infringements shown in euro. Amendments and additions to this law create a legal basis for the adoption of a sub-legislative regulation which will regulate the introduction of plants from the border area of neighbouring third countries into the border area of the Republic of Croatia and in accordance with the relevant EU regulation. The conditions and methods of approval of the operation of quarantine cells and the space for isolation or withdrawal of quarantine cells and the space for isolation are also defined. In order to collect and monitor, and exchanges of data mapping, maps of demarked areas for certain quarantine harmful organisms, an information system in plant health shall be established. In relation to first reading, the final proposal for a law has been no-technically completed or in line with the comments of the HS Legislative Committee and the opinions obtained by the body of the state administration. The final draft law is also in line with the Law on the introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia and the direction of the Ministry of Finance. The financial resources are planned amounting to €675,000 in the State budget for 2022 also in the 2023 and 2024 projections, but will be planned when drawing up the budget plan for the new three-year period. That amount shall be considered necessary in view of the need to monitor harmful organisms in the Republic of Croatia and for the purpose of implementing the competent administration. Finally, the adoption of this Act amending and supplementing the Law on Plant Health allows for the smooth introduction of plants, plant products and other objects into the border areas of the Republic of Croatia produced in the nearby border area of a third country. The conditions and methods of approval and recalling the work of quarantine cells and isolation space are defined, contributing to reducing the risk of spreading harmful organisms used for official research or conducting tests by setting up and information systems, allowing a part of the data to be publicly available, and thus, the interested public will at any time have data on uninfected, infected and endangered regions in the case of quarantine harmful organisms, and align fines in euro in accordance with the law establishing the euro as the official currency of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118785	Thank you very much. You have several replicas. Mr. Dretar, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118786	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. Allow in the final draft of the law we are discussing here there is also a provision on maintenance and upgrade of the application MOBI the Pest. In my research committee process, I found an explanation for the contract. In fact, this contract is awarded to one company and it stands there without a previous publication of the call for competition in the official EU vote, for which reason I state the precise works of goods or services can only be provided by a certain economic operator because of the absence of competition for technical reasons. Since we know that it is time for very strong Croatian information companies to ask you what are the technical reasons why only one company can maintain and upgrade the application MOBI the Pest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118787	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118788	Therefore, the Ministry of Agriculture fully respects the Public Procurement Act, all procedures which are not according to specific procedures are published by even those which are part of the simple procurement according to the instructions we made two years ago on the website and of the procedures possible exclusions from the conduct of the procedure are only provided by law. I have to admit, I have to check out what you asked me. The application is in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food, so I'll check it out. But I can say in the principles that everything is fully respected and even simple procurement to be published on the web.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118789	Thank you. Mrs. Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118790	The citizens are under-informed about this application and I must say that I come from the border area and I am interested in what is the possibility, i.e. what is the current practice of exchanging data on plant diseases with other countries not only Slovenia but in general on the border area, and in what way will you actually improve this part?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118791	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118792	All fitness information systems are improved every year, the exchange of data is also improved not only because of the system's improvement but through the order of regulation that requires us to do so. I can confirm that we have a very good data exchange with all EU countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118793	Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118794	Thank you, Vice President, the Honorable Minister for Plant Protection and Disease Control is always more rewarding than later to resolve the consequences, and the consequences at global level are quite large and in terms of yield, as well in financial terms. Do you have any information on how much Croatia spends on plant protection on plant health? And do we know in the financial indicators how much the consequences of the attacks on certain plant pests cost us, I don't just mean in agriculture, because we know that they've been appearing unfortunately in forestry lately. FURIO RADIN: Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118795	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118796	I can't, of course, confirm how accurate the consequences are. I can confirm that we are increasing from year to year the funds needed to protect against the intruders, and we are also increasing funds for the preventive system. As far as fitness is concerned, we spend several million kunas a year, and Croatian forests spend significantly more protection than intruders.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118797	Mrs. Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118798	I wonder if it's legally strictly regulated where with the trees attacking some disease, so they have to be removed. Is it all going into compost, and whether there is a possibility, is it already done to donate that tree to poor citizens for heating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118799	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118800	I can't confirm that a tree is donated to poor citizens for heating. I can examine whether it's possible, and the tree is taken care of in accordance with the law provided for in the procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118801	And in the end, Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118802	Your Honor, Madam Minister, Mr. Vice President. Surely one of the most important objectives of these amendments to the law is the protection of the territory of the Republic of Croatia against the introduction of new harmful organisms and harmful infectious diseases, because we know how difficult it is for us when new infectious diseases such as gold jaundice appear in the wine vine, etc., how long it takes, effort and effort to prevent its spread later on, etc. How much is the Ministry, or competent service, that is, how much are they in some way ready for such challenges that unfortunately await us more and more this time ahead of us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118803	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118804	It is certainly necessary to make additional efforts, especially with regard to the prevention of the spread of golden jaundice because unfortunately too much of Croatian vineyards are infected, the particular problem is private vineyards and debossed plots. This Ministry of Agriculture, of course, is also taking action plans and orders to prescribe the shops, and we also carried out the special first such project in the Istrian County area of removal, decommissioning and removal of vineyards infected with gold yellow on agricultural land owned by the state. We will continue to do so, but I must also say that it is easier to do so on land where ownership relations are arranged.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118805	Thank you very much. You don't have any more, so far you don't have any more replicas. Thank you. Would the committee's reporters like to take their words? Yeah. - Mrs. Crescent. Petir, chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118806	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honors Minister, Secretary of State, Director. At its 67th session, the HS Agriculture Committee discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Plant Health as a home working body. The debate highlights that the establishment of an information system and the upgrade of the MOBI Pest application to monitor 10 new harmful organisms should help combat harmful organisms, which is important because of the prevention of attacks on harmful organisms, their eradication and the impact on the sustainability of agricultural production and forestry. A positive assessment of preparedness to facilitate the introduction of plants into the border areas of the Republic of Croatia for border crossing users residing in the border area of the Republic of Croatia, and land owners in the border area of a third country. Following the discussion, the HS Agriculture Committee unanimously decided to propose to HS the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Plant Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118807	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. First, the clubs, in front of the Bridge Representatives Club, Maria Selak Rasudic, I don't see her. He's losing his right. Now it's Mr. Niksha Vukas, the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118808	Dear Vice President of the HS, the minister with his associates. As the minister said in the introduction, the draft law on changes to plant health supplements, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, we supported this in the first reading, and I think it is the right thing to do through the whole, these new changes, practically 3 things are the information system, the provisions relating to the introduction of certain plants and plant products into the border areas are more detailed and procedures for the approval of quarantine cells are prescribed. I think all three things matter. What we wouldn't want to get into Croatia, certainly that it's not good for us to take it out, and I think that as hard as we have to be on imports, we need to be so much under the supposed signs and strict and educational towards our producers, because it will ultimately be good for them. I would like this, as I said in my first reading, to have this information system be, I don't care who does it, these are public tenders, to be simple, to be in real time, to have these data updated in the shortest time that it takes, because we all know that, especially in agriculture, weeds and diseases, and everything that drags behind it is rapidly spreading. That's one thing. The other thing is that the control system has to work, and the third thing is that these quarantine stations have to be adequately equipped, that they have to meet all the conditions and that people are educated, and I think now that we're talking about this law, there's not much to say, it's practically a European directive, and I think that this law, that anyone says against it doesn't like Croatian agriculture, doesn't like our producers, because we know, when we get to these diseases, which are those for both producers and for the state and therefore, I don't think there are any dilemmas. But I think that, especially the Ministry of Agriculture, through some brochures, through some education, through some round tables, we should do one action, I think there's a means to do that. And maybe you already have, but as far as the Social Democrats Club is concerned, you'll have full support because that's all we do for the benefit of our producers. We know the conditions under which Croatian agriculture is located. We know ourselves in what conditions Europe is concerned about working in Ukraine, and we certainly cannot allow ourselves to be at risk of the crops of wheat, corn, barley, whatever agricultural products, and I think, as far as we are concerned, we support it in the first reading, we will support it in the second reading, but what we really need is control, control, control, education, education, education, education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118809	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Ban Vlahek and Mrs. Antoliæ Vupra will share the time of the SDP on this, this, dedicated to the views of this Law, to be more precise. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118810	.../ The speaker was subsequently turned on. the financial resources paid for that purpose at the annual level. With almost every new law, the number of information systems is growing as mushrooms after the rain, I asked for information on the planned number of new information systems in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, which I also did not get an answer in any year to upgrade the MOBI the Past application to one of the information systems in plant health or how much it will cost to maintain it. I appeal to the ministry to finally provide information to get the citizens of the Republic of Croatia's insight into this. Furthermore, during the debate in the first reading, I stated that this proposal to amend and supplement the law makes the procedures for approving the work of quarantine cells and the space for isolation that we welcome. The justification of the request and the fulfilment of the conditions shall be determined by the expert commission and a solution shall be adopted on the basis of a proposal from the Commission. What is not good against the solution cannot be filed, but only to initiate an administrative dispute before the competent administrative court. There is still a whole series of situations in the law where it is not possible to appeal that we find unacceptable. The agriculture ministry has increasingly abolished the possibility of appeal and replaced it by the launch of a administrative dispute. Therefore, I am again looking for an explanation why some provisions make it impossible to file a complaint and it seems to me that this is an increasingly frequent scratch of the Ministry of Agriculture, the launch of a administrative dispute, instead of filing an appeal, costs and a long time, so it insists on conducting the proceedings, taking into account the insecure financial situation and the speed of resolving certain cases. We have heard that a new proposal to amend and supplement the law will regulate in more detail certain areas of plant health such as phytosanitary supervision, the introduction of certain plants and other objects into the border areas of the Republic of Croatia, the recall of quarantine cells and the space for isolation, the management of the information system for the monitoring of harmful organisms, the establishment of an expert committee for approval as well as other issues which I hope will have a positive impact on the implementation of the Law on Plant Health. I believe that the first review of the law has already identified potential problems with complaints, problems with the implementation of digitisation and information, problems with competences and the like that which needed to be corrected in order to make the law useful to the state and its citizens and to achieve a long-term positive effect, not just an act that we are bringing about a reform under the cover of compliance with European legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118811	You, too. Mrs. Antoliæ Vupra, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118812	Good evening. Your Honor, the President, the Honorable Attending. As stated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, the Minister of Agriculture is present here as the main objective of the law and the protection of plants, plant products and other objects from harmful organisms, the identification of the presence and identification of harmful organisms, the prevention of the introduction and spread of harmful organisms and their eradication of the application of phytosanitary measures, the prevention of the export of plants, plant products and other objects infected with harmful organisms and the protection of the environment from the effects of harmful organisms. The main objective of this final draft law is to establish an information system in the field of plant health which will be used for the collection, storage and storage and processing of information on the spread of Union quarantine harmful organisms and harmful organisms that temporarily meet the conditions for inclusion in the Union quarantine harmful organisms. Detailed provisions relating to the introduction of certain plants, plant products and other objects into the border areas of the Republic of Croatia are also laid down for the approval of the operation of quarantine cells and the space for isolation. The application MOBI the Past for the monitoring of new harmful organisms will be further upgraded and fines in euro will be introduced. I believe that this law is very necessary and that its amendments and additions are justified, but I think that we can all agree there were previous laws have also given the debate to conclude that there is not enough education of citizens. First of all, I think of actually a weak lack of education for using an application to identify harmful organisms. I know that an explanation has been given that in a simple way it will get closer to the citizens, but often it remains on the promise that it will be done, but the question is when, where, and quite certainly, the means and time are needed, but it is not visible in which way and where and how and with which money could be executed. People are under-informed and I think that this law for the vast majority of our citizens will be a dead letter on paper and another one in a series of incomprehensible regulations that only some can actually apply and thus will not be used to the extent to which it was actually imagined and set up. Furthermore, we don't know what the experiences are, and if there is, there is anything at all about the exchange of information with us and neighbouring countries. From the minister's reply, she says that, that there is co-operation, but it should be somehow evidenceable, visible, we should know how to read and check it somewhere. I come from the far northwest of Croatia, from the border area with Slovenia. In practice harmful organisms can pass from one country to another in a very short time because some fields and vineyards are physically connected although they are formally located in the territories of two countries. We have no answer to that question. Logically, there is also a question of why and permitting the introduction of quarantine-related pests in the area of a particular country, which is the purpose, research or something else? You see, there are plenty of strangers here, and for us members of the highest legislative body in the country that we are passing laws, let alone an average citizen who should benefit from that law, and I must conclude that the only thing I can expect citizens to be very confused. Here's so much for the club, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118813	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Stipan Sashlin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118814	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ma'am. Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal amends and complements the Law on Plant Health regulates and harmonizes our legislation with EU legislation. In fact, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to take over in its legislation of European legislation, i.e. to create a legal basis for the adoption of sublegislative acts stemming from EU provisions. Therefore, the adoption of amendments to the law will allow for further implementation of Regulation 2016/2031 of the European Parliament and of the Council and the implementation of Commission Regulation 2017/23013, which is practically plant health, which we are talking about in this, in these amendments to the law. The health correctness of plants is of exceptional importance for plant production, for forests, for nature, for natural eco-systems and for biodiversity, and the very production of plants is the basis of a food chain without which there would be no food for humans or for animal food. A huge range of harmful organisms and plant diseases endangers food production at global level, affects productivity and biodiversity of forests and natural environments. Most often, the main cause of biological and numerous changes in nature is human itself, and it should also be noted that the global trade of plants carries the risk of spreading harmful organisms. The new proposal for amending and supplementing the law regulates certain areas of plant health, such as the introduction of an information system, the monitoring of harmful organisms, the introduction of certain plants and other objects in the border areas of the Republic of Croatia, phytosanitary supervision, the establishment of an expert committee to approve and recall quarantine cells and isolation areas and other issues which will positively affect the implementation of the Law on Plant Health. The basic mission of the competent plant health authorities should be to protect its territory or our territory from the introduction and spread of organisms harmful to plants, to create basic preconditions for the efficient production of healthy plant reproductive material in agriculture and forestry, to ensure sufficient quantities of healthy and high-quality food within its jurisdiction. Furthermore, the tasks of the competent plant health authorities are to train and raise the awareness of agricultural producers and other stakeholders in the implementation of plant health and public health on the need to preserve the environment in which they live. The protection of plants against harmful organisms and plant diseases is always more cost-effective than restraint, eradication or in the worst case of the resolution of the consequences of the uncontrolled influence of harmful organisms. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Plant Health aims to protect the territory of the Republic of Croatia against harmful organisms which should certainly contribute to safer agricultural production, to ensure better protection of the environment, forests, public and private property, and consequently reduce the use of plant protection funds. Defining the conditions and methods of approval and recalling the work of quarantine cells and isolation space will help reduce the risk of the spread of harmful organisms, and the establishment of information systems on plant health will allow the interested public to have information at all times on uninfected, infected and endangered regions in the case of quarantine harmful organisms. In addition to harmonising with European legislation, the aim of this proposal is to strengthen the sustainability and productivity of Croatian agricultural production and this is a topic that should be very current today. In some ways, I think it may be crucial to put in place the full drive of all Croatian agricultural areas in today's global situation. In this situation, we need to think about increasing the productivity of Croatian agriculture and thus meet the needs of our citizens for food. In addition to the situation, given the situation and the situation in Eastern Europe, we must be prepared to produce sufficient quantities of food or cereals and olives, which are the basis of most of the basic food products, including livestock. It may now be an opportunity to reassemble ourselves in some way and try to improve or help our agricultural producers. And finally, what I also believe is that it is not irrelevant to this bill that fines are prescribed in euro. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118815	Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic begins with individual debates. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118816	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's finally something I can say hello to this address book from the Ministry of Agriculture. I think this is a quality law that will contribute to the safety of our plants, i.e. the eradication of pests and thus improve agricultural production. Just a few words about how important that is. Therefore, since it is the same thing as European legislation that we are transposing in Croatian legislation, i.e. to the European acquis, just a few words as to how important it is. Namely, he mentioned fellow Shashina if I am not mistaken and the war in Ukraine, the disturbance in supply chains, the fact that Ukraine and the Russian Federation are still the largest producers of cereals. That is why it is necessary to raise our maximum production, to make it more efficient, to reduce the damage or to maximise the yields in order to make up for this vacuum created due to the war in Ukraine. I don't think there's going to be any shortages, I don't really think there's going to be a shortage in Europe. We'll probably feel it through inflation, but in some other parts of the world and disorders we'll be more important. I would also single out that the establishment of an information system for upgrading the already existing MOBI Pest system for monitoring 10 new harmful organisms should help fight harmful organisms, which is important for preventing attacks, eradicating them and affecting the sustainability of agricultural production and forestry. I also think that it is positive that the ministry has expressed its readiness to facilitate the introduction of plants into the border area of the Republic of Croatia for users of the border pass that they have, therefore, in the border area of the Republic of Croatia and the owners are pardoned land in the border area of third countries. It will make life much easier for people living in border areas, but it should also be a general policy when it comes to our citizens living in the border areas of Croatia. In any case, I think this law will mark qualitative progress, and that's why I'm going to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118817	Thank you. Mrs. Petir's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118818	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Hajdukovic, most of our citizens, had not been too close to the idea of quarantine until the occurrence of the Coronal virus, but it was a concept used in plant health for a very long time. For now, we are following 47 quarantine pests with the adoption of this law we will follow 10 more, and that is extremely important and that an important reaction in time is also a fact on one example that is well known to all of us, because a lot of people in Croatia but also in the wider area suffers from ambrosia and its impact on human health, so the real question is that ambrosia contained 70 years ago how much less damage it would do to agriculture and how much less problems it would have with allergies or some other harmful impact of ambrosia. You yourself said that this legal framework is well engaged in your opinion. Do you think that, possibly through stronger education, we can also improve the implementation of the law itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118819	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118820	Thank you. Well, sure. And I'm one of the people who feels that ambrosia, so really, if we had more effective measures then, if we had managed to contain ambrosia, it would have been easier because of agriculture, and also because of people who have allergic reactions, including me. I agree with you that keeping our biocenosis is extremely important from invasive actions and organisms that can have devastating effects. You have another example of one of the pests, as much as we can talk about it. It's called stinky Martin who came from Brazil if I'm not wrong in a shipment of wires and corn just as long ago in the former state. And here's how many there are now, how widespread it is, and how much care it can give to our citizens. So in any case, I would consider this legislative proposal to be quality and, of course, we should try to protect our biodiversity as much as possible from saying such invasive species that can do potentially very much damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118821	Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Mariana Petyr's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118822	Thank you, Vice President, Minister, Secretary of State, Director, MPs and MPs. I will join all those who have supported this law because I believe that the health correctness of plants is of paramount importance for plant production, for forests, for our nature, for our natural ecological systems, for biodiversity, and we know that the very production of plants is the basis of a food chain without whose production would be no food for humans, for no food for animals. According to my global data, up to 40% of crops are lost today due to harmful organisms and plant diseases. In terms of economic value, only plant diseases cost the global economy about 220 billion dollars a year and invasive species about 70 billion dollars. A vast range of harmful organisms and plant diseases endangers food production at global level, affects productivity and biodiversity of forests and wild flora of the natural environment. Most of course, the main cause is the man himself. In addition, it should be noted that the global trade of plants carries the risk of the spread of harmful organisms. Given that the Republic of Croatia is a medium European and Mediterranean state is a diverse climate conditions, relief and fertile soil enable us to produce different kinds of cultures from wartime industrial crops to vineyards, olive groves, continental and Mediterranean fruits and vegetables. The basic mission is therefore to protect national territory from the introduction and spread of plant harmful organisms, to create basic conditions for the efficient production of healthy plant reproductive material in agriculture and forestry, to ensure sufficient quantities of healthy and high-quality food within its jurisdiction. Of course, the mission of the competent plant health authorities is to preserve and take the awareness of agricultural producers and other stakeholders in the implementation of plant health and public awareness of the need to preserve the environment in which they live. In this sense, when we talk about the education of farmers, we should once again point out what we have repeated several times in the debate today, but also through our meetings on the Committee on Agriculture that we call for strengthening the advisory service because a large set of legislative regulations but also new knowledge that our farmers need to adopt and apply depends on the work of an advisory service which is unfortunately insufficiently numerous, which should be strengthened because one consultant comes to 585 agricultural economies which is too little and in this sense and we support the decision to finance the advisory service except public expansion and private. In conclusion, I would say that the protection of plants from harmful organisms and plant diseases is always, always more cost-effective than restraint and eradication, or in the worst case, the consequences of the uncontrolled impact of harmful organisms, and in this activity one of the important tools is also this Law on Plant Health, so I will support it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118823	Thank you very much. Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118824	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ma'am. Minister, ma'am. Petyr. In our people there is this saying, they say every evil for some good is, unfortunately, this aggression of Russia to Ukraine does something and maybe good is produced by us if it can be called, maybe in some way we encourage our farmers to some new products, to some new production, to more productivity, in some way to turn to ourselves more and thus to strengthen the overall sustainability of agricultural production in the Republic and teach it to be competitive in a global, global environment. I think that this situation that has somehow found us can somehow, if we're prepared enough and ready enough to respond to it all together, get over it, and we can get out of it even stronger and more sustainable in some way. Here, I'd like to hear your little comment on that, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118825	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118826	Thank you, colleague Shaslin, for the replica, so first of all, the Coronavirus, and now the war in Ukraine has cut off its supply routes, and this certainly causes major disturbances and unplanned expenditure at European level, but also for the national budget. It is certain that no war is good and can ever bring any good, but on the other hand it is important to know that Croatia has potential and resources that it does not use in its fullness and given all the circumstances that occur and the unpredictability of the situation in any case we should put those resources in full function. In this sense, I believe that the ministry is also considering in a similar way how and through the strategic specifics that we have given ourselves in the Agriculture Strategy to increase productivity and competitiveness, to increase domestic production and place Croatian peasant product on our market and in tourism, but to keep the Croatian product on the Croatian table.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118827	Thank you very much. Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118828	I would have just continued where you left off, perhaps, because of the new situation in the world, we should make our production more efficient, therefore also through the suppression of the pests of invasive species, but also put all our resources into operation, means all the agricultural land, all the production resources we have because it is obvious that in some foreseeable period, and no one can predict how long the war will last and the disturbances in supply chains, when we will eventually have to rely as much on our resources as possible and on our production. I only wish that ransom prices would reflect this new situation that our producers can get more money because the food has been collected, it is obvious, I am sorry that they are at the mercy of our buyers, but I would also like to remind you that even though the logistics costs are slightly higher that we are on the big market for the Union and that they can sell their products further if not in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118829	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118830	Thank you, colleague Hajdukovic. Yes, the question of buyouts and ransom prices is especially due to the fact that the wheat harvest is in full swing and somehow gets the impression, at least I have the impression, and I don't know how you see it, that the buyers here have joined themselves although they are not formally in the cartel, but perhaps the Agency for the Protection of the Competition could check that they have formed some cartel that is actually unfairly pressured by the agricultural producers because it is a little unusual that last week the prices of the purchase of wheat vary from the buyer to the buyer, and that this week they all offered the same price. In this regard, I expect both the ministry and the government to engage in political dialogue with the redeemers because I think it is necessary at this point in view of all the circumstances that we have already mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118831	Thank you. Now it's final on behalf of Mrs. SDP. Ban Vlahek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118832	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, few of us remained in the assembly until the end of the debate on agriculture, but today, with full law, both we and Croatian citizens could ask what purpose it makes all day to discuss agricultural laws when HDZ's policy direction is visible in the fact that one minister, former Minister of Agriculture and Vice-President of the Government today is arrested, that an active civil servant, an employee of the field office of the Agricultural Payments Agency, and that USKOK is still combing and by the ministry, which we will probably read about in the coming days, and when real hardworking farmers, Croatian citizens, because of such HDZ's relationship with agriculture leave Croatia because they see only those with a party card profiting in it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you why to discuss here when European money and money from Croatian citizens builds barbecues and wineries, when Croatian citizens pay hobby of spent ministers, is stolen from the eye so that similar individuals can fertilize money. Trust me, dear colleagues and colleagues, this doesn't make any sense, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118833	... but it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, here you go. [[Last-on speaker]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118834	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I had to react. 238, insulting the few of us here, but unfortunately this, this is looking at, looking at the Croatian public, and being deceived by the public. What is being detained today by the former Minister of Agriculture is only proof that this government is not protecting anyone and that the same status is shared by all and former ministers and current ministers and ordinary people, etc., it may scare you, it may not suit you, but it is indeed so. HDZ has no difference between [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118835	All I can say is that it was a replica, so it goes for the difolt's warning. Let's move on, I've given a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118836	All right, can I? Art. 238, dear colleague, since you are not ashamed, criminal organization, I would be ashamed to say at all why I call you, I do not call you personally, but how are you not ashamed to say this to the Croatian public today in this HS?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118837	Yes, you do. That's your third warning, unfortunately. ... I have to give you my word. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Ivanovic, there's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118838	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, of course. 238, I'm really amazed by the words you said here, calling us some kind of criminals, thieves, under every level, in order to say it, you have to have proof. Stipan Sashlin explained nicely, there are no protected ones, the one who has done something must prove his innocence in court and I think that there is quite clear everything, but talking about HDZ members that they are criminals, it is below the level of this high house.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118839	Thank you very much, notice, it was a replica. - Mrs. Crescent. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118840	Thank you, Vice President. Art. In 238, the demeaning of parliamentary deputies, a colleague, unfortunately, called all HDZ representatives a criminal organisation that neither fits the truth nor respects the Rules of Procedure, I don't think we should address each other here. You have rightly said a warning, and I must say that the first weed from your own grain should be cleaned, so I will only remind you of all the malversions and illegal activities of Minister Jakovina which you yourself are aware of, which until today has not been processed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118841	Thank you. There's a note for the difolt. I'd ask you if you can pull, you can pull it now, I mean there's no, there's no reason, there's no reason anymore, I think that, let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118842	Yeah?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118843	No, you have to. ... You won't take it back? [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118844	I won't take it back, but he's hurt. 238, insult of parliamentary deputies. I am not that I am, not that I should be ashamed today, I am, I am honored, I am glad that this is like this, I am truly honored and glad, and you should be ashamed of yourself and wonder where your minister, who has turned back, did not reverse the destruction of Croatian agriculture and the Croatian village of Mr. Jakovina, what he is doing now, whether someone has brought him in maybe or might bring him in, should I, I should like to hear you, your opinion, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118845	Thank you very much, she was, there was a replica, another reminder on the same subject. - Mrs. Crescent. Ban Vlahek, Mrs. You want to insist on the resistance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118846	He's been injured. 238, so Mrs. McNally. Ban Vlahek wrongly called out for something she didn't say, so she said that the criminal organisation so HDZ was a convicted organisation, did not insult other representatives individually and since today the topic of agriculture is I think that, that it is good to make ourselves aware that agriculture is too important to do so [[/Intruder: Thank you very much, thank you very much, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118847	She was, I mean, she was a replica, by definition of the reminders, and finally, the club of representatives of HDZ, finally Mr. Sinisha Jankač.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118848	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Director.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118849	Yankee, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118850	It's all right. My colleagues and fellow MPs, so I've been thinking about the Law on Plant Health, but this one would now say there are no dolls in every grain, and since this one is talking about plant health, but I would like to warn you colleagues and colleagues on the left, that you should not accuse and judge before Croatian courts do so, and also this one, as the old saying goes, is first of all important to clean up in front of your yard, and then clean up in front of someone else's yard, and I agree with Mr. Shaschlin when he said, so here's evidence in any case that there are no protecteds because the more or less current former ministers from the current government are being brought in, and the good question is when he's going to start to be brought in. some former ministers [[I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] Especially agriculture. [[I have to, I have to.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118851	Mr. Yankee, I need to intervene. We're talking about the Law on Plant Health, please, please. Yeah, but, let's not talk about the Law on Plant Health, I won't make any warnings. [[You have to give me some to talk about.]] but we're talking about the Law on Plants.../incomprehensible/... you didn't even mention it. [[Intruder: Deputys.]] Yeah, yeah, you just said... [[I did, I did.]] The speakers speak at the same time. Please, please. [[/Intruder: A here.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118852	A lot of times from this high house is the subject of one, there's something quite different being said, so here, I've allowed myself to start a little bit of introduction, if nothing else [[- Okay. - Okay.]] Well, well, I know that you're always fighting to speak, but here you are, teaching other fellow vice presidents to warn speakers when talking about the topic is one thing, and they're saying quite a tenth, but I need to look back. [[But now let's get on with the law.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118853	But I didn't, I didn't warn you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118854	It means the Law on Plant Health which ensures the implementation of the EP Regulation on protective measures against organisms of plant pests. The main objective is the protection of plants, plant products from harmful organisms, as well as the establishment of certain harmful organisms, prevention, spread and introduction of harmful organisms and eradication by means of phytosanitary measures. The competent authority responsible for the application of the Law is, of course, the Ministry of Agriculture and other competent authorities, the State Inspectorate, the Croatian Forest Institute, the Agency for Agriculture and Food. This Law improves the legal framework of national legislation which has not been prescribed so far. Also, we heard, an information system is being established to monitor and implement the protection, but also to carry out the infection and ultimately, we will also get common information that we will be able to use in further protection and eradication of harmful organisms. It is also very important that, for the implementation of this Act, financial resources amounting to 675 thousand kuna are provided which will be provided and through which financial resources will then be able to be actively implemented by the Law on Plant Health itself. Here, since I've talked a little bit about protection and about plant health itself, I'm going to have to look around and finish the thought that I was talking about at the beginning. So, distinguished colleagues, as mentioned above, the respected former minister, well, I hope that someone once asked him how he had influences on agriculture, but also I call on the distinguished colleagues to look at their own ranks, in their own ranks there are fellow MPs who are accused, not convicted, and we don't use the opportunity to potentiate it, but in these cases when we're withdrawn by language, then we just remind ourselves, and I'm going to end up having everyone first clean up at their doorstep, and then let the finger point to others, and it's very, very unfortunate when, here's a fellow representative of this, in this dictionary, calling all the fellow MPs and MPs, No matter which political options come. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-07-0.u118855	Thank you. Well, we're closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
