ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u102851	Here's my theme, Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, and the MPs, my subject is not, it's not going to cause as much of this anxiety as these last two, but I have to do one sentence before I start talking about the subject I just wanted to talk about. It would really be good on this day to respect the victim's piety, the victim has neither nationality nor nationality, nor gender, the victim is a victim. And it's not good to share sacrifices on good victims and bad victims. Therefore, I think that what colleague Peovic is here and the way and tone she spoke was not actually worthy of this day. I would refer to the second day we are marking today, which is the day, the International Day of Planet Earth 22.4. which has been officially marked since 1992 when a programme for promoting sustainable development was adopted during the UN Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janerio. In 2009, it became the International Day of Planet Earth, so it was declared by the UN General Assembly. This year, planet Earth Day is dedicated to climate change and the consequences of climate change, and it is carried out under the slogan “invest in our planet”. In this context, he would mention a document, a strategy that was adopted in June last year by the European Parliament called the EU Strategy for Biodiversity by 2030 and which is actually under one title to bring nature back to our lives. In fact, the document sets clear EU biodiversity targets among other things is to protect at least 30% of the EU's sea and land areas. In this context, it is also good to recall that in the Republic of Croatia protected areas now account for 8.6% of the total area and 12.3% of land territory and almost 2% of the territorial sea. Of the 4.9% mentioned, it refers to nature parks, and at this point, so it's 12, at this point we have 8 national parks. I actually wanted to take this opportunity and this topic to mention the initiative of almost a year ago when I launched an initiative to declare Ivančica, Strahinjčica and Maceljsko Gora and Ravna Gora Nature Park. Namely, as early as December 2013 A document of the then National Institute for Nature Protection was created, the professional basis for the protection of the regional park of Hrvatska Zagorje and was therefore covered by part of the Croatian Zagorje and this area of Ravna Gora, and the Maceljsko gora and Strahinjčica and Ivančica and Bednja region. It's been nine years since then. Unfortunately, on this point, I would say perhaps because of a certain conflict between the two counties there has been no near progress. So I say it myself two years ago. launched this initiative to declare this area a park of nature. Given the richness and diversity of the Strahinjca area and the need for its preservation, which is mostly covered by forest vegetation and also respecting the fact that in its area a recently found alpine Alpine eel is one of the locations of rare and endemic Croatian featherery, and the habitat of at least 40 types of orchids of opinion I definitely this area should also be covered by nature park. The declaration of nature parks for the Ivančica, Strahinjčica, Ravna Gora and Maceljsko Gora would contribute not only to the preservation of biodiversity of that area but to further ensure the sustainability of the unique landscape elements and of the nature of the cultural heritage of that area. This area is of exceptional tourist and educational potential which, of course, could ultimately result in the possibility of improving the living standard of the local population through the development of organic production, branding of local products, providing tourism services and, of course, easier absorption of EU funds. In view of the facts mentioned in the professional basis mentioned in 2013 Since it certainly exists, this and the profession says the conditions from, prescribed by the Nature Protection Act above all on... The reaction of the local population, so in one survey we conducted last year, 87% of the local population think that, therefore, the declaration of this nature park would be good for the local community. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've just suggested that we launch a revision of this expert background. What the minister himself said and in a conversation with the director of the agency, Mr Duplic, somewhere in September of this year, is expected to review the basis, and somewhere in May we will know the results of the professional basis itself, although of course the profession shows that the conditions are met, and I expect that by the end of this term we will have a legal proposal to declare the park. I will also take advantage of the opportunity that the Day of Planet Earth is all those who can and who are able to do one cleanup action tomorrow, so the mountain, and the week after that 29.4. of the organization association SRD 315 Northwest for all those who want to climb 24 hours on Ivancic are welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u102852	Thank you very much. We are done with today's session, and we will continue the session on Wednesday 27 April at 9:30. ... You'll get an electronic route. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Rest, actively, rest actively and have a pleasant weekend. SECURE Interrupted at 11.53 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u103107	The Honorable Vice President of HS, Mr. Radin, Mr. Bukaric, dear colleagues and colleagues. Prime Minister Plenkovic announced the departure of Minister Aladrovic, Minister Coric, Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic, or, at least, that is how it is said, to make myself more clear. However, allow me to say that a great injustice is done if Minister Beros does not leave, and this way I call on Prime Minister Plenkovic to correct the great injustice and that in the next 30 days, Minister Berosa will be replaced. If he does not, then we will cut behind the legitimate ways here in the Croatian Parliament and we will indicate that it is only right. The health care system is in great difficulty, people are being cancelled for a year, so treatment, surgery, and some medications are still missing in hospitals. At the same time, Minister Beros is setting up millions of jobs for his friends. The American health system gave up on Ronapreve pharmaceutical company Rosche, I asked him a representative question. So the American health system said that this drug is completely ineffective. A month later, Minister Beros buys the drug with our money and pays it 30 million kuna. 30 million kuna. Imagine that you are in a company and spend 3,000 kunas wrongly, 30,000 kunas, 300,000 kunas, 3 million kunas, and Minister Beros spends 30 million kunas on that medicine he knows is not effective. Pfezer under the pressure of the court declares that they knew that the nature of immunity protects them so well that they got over, not to mention the overslept should not receive the vaccine. I've spoken clearly and publicly about this. These are the official documents that came out. Did the minister know that? Was he hiding this information? Did he hit any interesting lobbys? I'm talking about this Pfizer who was convicted of fraud, for fraud, for bribery of a doctor, and for these dishonest actions he had to pay $2.3 billion to my people. We, however, amassedly order a vaccine of 18 million, no more or less, and then we throw 275,000 vaccines, and on the lager we have over 2 million vaccines, and it will probably go into the trash worth 29 million 500 thousand euros. So who's to blame? Can anyone in Croatia be responsible for their actions that do not lead well, if they do nothing mathematics and do numbers. The FDA asked 55 first, and now a 75-year-old period to publish documents on the basis of which they approved this vaccine in 108 days. As for wearing masks, I talked to experts who participated in foreign countries mask testing and fitting for the original SARS. People tell me the mask doesn't protect as much as anyone says, thinks, argues, investigates. The mask protects exactly as much as the mask manufacturer stated in its declaration, provided it is the same under the certificate and used in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions, and then includes the disposal of the mask. We wash the masks in the washing machine, dry them on a strip and prepare us for the fall, so much for dangerous waste. Absurd, absurd. This is where I asked the prime minister, so what about the health union? The World Health Organization at the last meeting of the European Council has therefore said that the legal frameworks for the health union are planned and that in the autumn it will be ready for all new pandemics. We were listening to a health minister who must be above his crystal ball a dead cold man saying that in the fall, a virus is waiting to kill us from Delta and will spread stronger than Omicron. Well, what drugs are these people on, or they're in direct relationships and communication channels with some people who are then preparing something they're preparing. So, terrtium non date or you're a prophetic son, so you're in a vision, you know exactly what's waiting for you, now let me tell my colleague Work and Davor Stier here's Peter here either, or a general or a colleague, in the next year in February, brother will be that to you. How? Either I'm crazy or I'm in direct contact with Jesus Christ or someone told me what would happen. So there's no fourth option for my people. So in Croatia, the voice comes from the people and belongs to the people and whatever the team is preparing and whatever you dream you'll break your teeth about the Croatian people. I'm telling you from this honorable place. Here are our defenders, General Sacic, here are the defenders on the ruling site and in the opposition who defended this country, and our fathers fought to free us. Whoever wants to be vaccinated every Monday, Friday, Saturday, I have absolutely nothing against it, but nobody's gonna make us do anything. We're free people. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u103393	She's gone. The second Mr. Davor Dretar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u103394	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues and the Croatian public. It's Friday as well as Friday's turn to look back a little bit. For the beginning of the week, he started us with another fight, which is the best way to remind us of the one where Barica and Štefica argue over whose chicken came out of one yard to another. This time, instead of coke, we were installed by the comforters of Perkovic and Mustac and, of course, it all went off very quickly, it all exploded quickly, it came to the front pages of all the TV shows, newspapers, portals, everyone started to discuss it, a lot of teeth had to be brushed here in HS whether they should be pardoned, who invented it at all, who is and why and how they instrumentized this topic and we have to admit once again they have succeeded. Without further ado this week, we are talking not only in the portals, not only in the assembly, but also in the government, and throughout Croatia about it from Monday till today, we have hardly seen what matters most in the world, but in terms of how much food we have accumulated, do you know that a liter of oil is approaching the amount of 20 kunas of ladies and gentlemen, our meat prices are growing, our basic food prices are growing, everything is growing as if we have given Viagra to our prices except, of course, our salaries which are seriously suffering from erectile dysfunction, they are not growing, they are standing, and they are less and less and less, more and less, we can buy for them. The rise in prices of mineral fertilisers, the rise in prices of protective products and seeds leads us to the most expensive crop in Croatia's history. These are stories that we have to worry about, and stories about whether someone will pardon someone and what they will pardon should really leave them to some others, let us sincerely hope for the past few times. This week, we all witnessed together another topical hour at the beginning of the HS session, to an open letter from our representative Mlinaric, who once again called on Prime Minister Plenkovic in front of the entire Croatian public to urgently launch interstate war damage lawsuits by the aggressors of the Republic of Serbia in the Homeland War, Mr. Prime Minister said I will read, so I will show myself. Not a single word of answer, but don't worry, we won't let it float in the air. I will remind you once again of one part of our representative Mlinarić's open letter, 30 years old. After the war, our dead civilians and our dead defenders are still being removed from the dumps like those from Bobota and Petrovac Valley, but we still don't have an adequate international verdict that will undoubtedly define in history textbooks once and for all to seal who was the aggressor and who was the victim in the Homeland War. Then on Thursday, we dedicated ourselves to the debate on the new Agricultural Land Act, which, if anything, proves the violent tenacity and endurance of all the governments that have led this country since it came into existence. I don't even know how to list the way we've passed the new Agricultural Land Act and how we've discussed the fact that this law is wrong again, that it's inconclusive and absolutely nothing new, let alone good for a Croatian farmer. Each farmer manages his land better than the Croatian government manages the Croatian state. Let's not forget, until we put a man, a farmer, a warlord, a peasant, a cattleman in the first place, and we can adapt the law to him or her and their needs here by making a variety of legal provisions and making changes absolutely nothing. The farmer's man comes first and then Croatia and its agriculture will be first. In the last 30 seconds, I will remind once again of the situation in the town of Slatini where our former colleagues in power have accused us of not acting transparently and transparently with city funds, but I will remind them of the request and the proposal by our representative Spijic and Mayor Ostrosic, Slatina has made her budget 100% visible to everyone who wants to see the state of the city's register, so you who were in power for not doing so while you were in power? Thank you very much and have a nice weekend.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u103607	Statement of the position of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and of the Workers' Front
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u103608	Good afternoon, everyone. Today it's 77 years since camper Logora Jasenovac's breakthrough of a huge Ustasha crime in a concentration camp for extermination in NDH. This is due to genocide policy towards Serbs, Jews, Roma and communists. Today, the Workers' Front has not decided to be in Jasenovac with the official protocol in part and in order not to put ourselves for the purpose of government and Plenkovic's policies and thus legitimise a policy that allows in Split to be declared in the Ustasha NDH party by the NDH country as the real origin of this country, but also so that we do not participate in this spectacle which is indeed how much I follow the focus on everyone except the victims and except antifascism that is responsible for defence against such criminal regime. But the real question where do we even talk about antifascism today? In this assembly, in which the president brings together Jandrokovic on the Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims, forgets to mention Jasenovac, means forget to mention our victims, meaning victims of Jews, Serbs, Roma and communists, or in our assembly where the Committee on War Veterans is talking about Partisan crimes against the Croatian people, where they speak of partisans as proven war criminals and lies that a red star in Europe is forbidden. Of course, in the end, there's a colleague here from the War Veterans Committee who always used to be a criminal, right? Where would we even talk about anti-fascism today? In Dotrusk, it may mean that there was also an RF proposal to rebuild the Dotrisk in Zagreb, the site of the shooting of the people of Zagreb who resisted the occupation of the Quislin NDH, but really today is a good question where to even talk about this antifascism. That's why I asked the chairman if he was in Jasenovac or just leaving. The commission means to explore, edit and maintain military cemetery, for example, is the same question in which we have a member of the association that, according to the Croatian Domobra Association, destroyed anti-fascist monuments. And it's not just about banning "for a home ready", although this way I call on all anti-fascist associations and those who are anti-fascist organizations to join in this matter, but it's really not just about the ban "for a home ready" means a greeting that is somehow legitimate to the government's representative, means that the envoy of this government, or one Minister of the Bear in Split, is really about the revission of historicalism that is with us, but also in Europe the tendency for victims and criminals to identify themselves. With us, the Partisans are also getting up, so they are declaring themselves the same, what the RF is always some distance from that civil anti-fascism is to highlight and highlight the economic dimension of the whole problem. So why today, in this historic period of history, talk about Ustashas and Partisans of the Nazis on the one hand and the communists on the other, why these battles today will be fought by many historians and anti-fascists to warn themselves of the economic aspect or the need for those who attack anti-fascism, those who attack communism, those who attack the real existing socialist experiments in us to actually oppose any idea of a better, fairer society, solidarity society, society, society of equality. And that's what anti-fascists are supposed to defend today, it's worth fighting for today, it's the idea and vision of society that had and these people that got killed by that NDHazi because they were fighting for a more righteous society. So I call on all anti-fascist associations once again and all anti-fascists to unite but against the historical revisionism that we consider dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u103609	Thank you very much. Before I give you my word to Mr. Sacic, let me just answer to Mrs. Sachich. Peović, Mr. Radin is going to Jasenovac on Thursday with the Jewish community, and this one, and today he is here to give you his word, but with spirit he is in Jasenovac today, please welcome Mr. Sacic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u103610	Thus, the Honorable Chairman, I am investing in the violation of the Rules of Procedure's speech, the scandalous speech of our colleague Peovic on behalf of the Croatian people, heirs and political and legal, biological ones, who were killed in hundreds of thousands by the partisan army under the leadership of Tito, and Mrs. Peovic is also in conflict with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Declaration of this Parliament, on the condemnation of the crimes of communism and most important [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]] European resolution equating [[Intruder: Mr. Sacic, thank you.]] Crimes of Naziism [[Intruder: You have a warning because it is...]] Communism and totalitarianism. [[Intruder:...was, because it was...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u103611	No, no, don't thank me for the warning, the warning is a violation. Don't thank me for the offense. ... Yeah, it's a warning because it's a replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I don't go into reason, content, it was a replica, right? - Mrs. Crescent. Peovic. Who, huh? Mr. Miletic, here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u103612	Thank you, Madam Vice President of HS, 238, I believe that even in the Croatian Parliament in the future, despite the legitimacy, democracy, that those MPs elected by the Croatian people will still be all who will judge clearly according to all European resolutions of communist crimes, as we should condemn both Nazi and fascist. Every one of those... Every ominous ideology, and say thank you and glory to Croatian defenders and created state in '91. g [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] because that's where the Croatian state was created. [[Thank you very much, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u103613	She was, thank you, you said yours. It was a replica, you have a warning. Wait, wait a minute. [[Intruder: Yes, 238,...]] - Mrs. Crescent. Peovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u103614	Yes, 238 and this time I'll really say that he's the Rules of Procedure himself, so the violation of the Rules of Procedure should really serve exactly these situations, so it says there to warn MPs and MPs when they say things that aren't correct, so among other things, we see here and I think, unfortunately, that's always repeated, by fellow Sacic, who speaks to anti-fascists about some crimes and who persistently refuses to talk about what we're here about, I think it's all exposed. [[Thank you very much. Time. Injury...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u103615	The breach of the Rules of Procedure because, the Rules of Procedure did not foresee it, it was, until it predicted, I must give you a reminder to all of you, for the same reasons, it was, it was a replica. Wow, Mr. Marin Miletic, taking a stand and a club representing Most. Oh, another one. Okay. Mr. Rade Simičević, I didn't see it, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u103616	Thank you, Vice President. He's been injured. 238, a colleague equates partisans and Ustashas, which is certainly not true, but she actually forgets to equate the victim, so many innocent people were killed, not because they were in any army but because they were only Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u103617	A warning because it was a replica, let's stop here. Mr. Miletic, come in. Ha, I've got to give you a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u103618	Well, yeah, just for those of you who are watching this. These reactions per day mean 77 years of breach of the Jasenic victims, meaning the victim of “Endehazi”, such a reaction, means calling, causing injuries to the Rules of Procedure, it should indeed, and, probably, make our sessions meaningful in some way in view of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, every time react to the Chairman. And I appeal to you that every time you react, 'Cause this isn't right, so don't, [[Intruder: Warning, warning.]] Incomprehensible... please... you're against, [[Intruder: Warning,...]] You do not stick to the Croatian Constitution. [[/Intruder: Please. Excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u103619	I'm gonna have to take your word for it. A warning for two reasons. The first reason you didn't call for any article. The Rules of Procedure, and the second reason, was a replica. Uh-huh. And on that day we could all together this, actually avoid such confrontations. Mr. Marin Miletic, please. What? Who? Well.../incomprehensible/... I mean, what do you want me to say? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You're giving up? And you're giving up? No, you're not giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u103620	238, and I'll just say...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u103621	... No, please, please, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, Mrs. Crescent. [[Intruder: To what is said.]] Here you go, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u103622	Mr. Bukarica, on what was said earlier, I have the right to lift the breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u103623	You have... It's not for the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[/Intruder: So I'm raising a breach of the Rules of Procedure on myself. Okay.]] All right, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u103624	To what the chairman said. Mr. Bukarica, I have the right to lift the breach of the Rules of Procedure to what the chairman said.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u103625	Let's start and see, get started, and let's see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u103626	Thank you. So I was just about to react, 238, to what you, the chairman here said, That in this situation maybe we shouldn't develop a debate [[/Intruder: Is that right?]] but to have a drink to the victims [[Intruder: Yes.]] But unfortunately, it can only be done if we keep quiet about it. [[Intruder: Yes.]] I am. I hope you understand that. [[But you're continuing to...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u103627	...you get it, you keep going, so with all due respect, I take away your word with 3rd warning. No, I'm taking your word. [[Intruder: All right, but just consider...]] I take away your word.../incomprehensible/ I take away your third warning and you can stay inside as long as you want. [[Intruder:... that you could just keep quiet about that there was no debate.]] Mr. Miletić, let's hope this one, we'll be... The speaker speaks Italian./... And now we're going to the first point: - Final bill amending and supplementing the Law on the legal consequences of conviction, criminal records and rehabilitation, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 243. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the RH and Art. in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? State Secretary Juro Martinovic of the Department of Justice and Administration is with us, wants to? Hello, there you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105014	Vice-President HS, respected MPs and MPs. Amendments to the Law on the Legal Consequences of Convictions, Criminal Records and Rehabilitation in National Law shall be implemented by the European Directive on the exchange of data on third-country nationals of the European Information System of Criminal Records, and by the Regulation establishing a centralised system for the identification of Member States which have information on convicted judgments against third-country nationals and stateless persons to supplement the European Criminal Records Information System. The introduction of these rules will establish a centralised database on the identity of persons convicted of a criminal offence in an EU Member State and are nationals of third countries or persons with citizenship. This database will also include biometric data, so fingerprints, eventually facial imagery to ensure the rapid and secure identification of such persons. There is also a presumption of interoperability of criminal records with other EU databases on the identity of persons. It is primarily a database of the European System of Travel, Border and Visa Systems. This legislative proposal further regulates the issue of regulation of authorising officers on data from criminal records to competent authorities in the field of social policy, ensuring the right to use data from criminal records in proceedings relating to the protection of the rights and interests of the child. The courts shall be given a legal basis for taking into account criminal records and beyond criminal prosecution in criminal proceedings when it comes to infringements with elements of violence or offences so severe that they may face prison sentences. For example, these are violations of domestic violence, violations against public order and peace, abuse of intoxicating drugs or causing riots in sports competitions. In addition to this, courts shall also be able to gain insight into criminal records and civil matters of family legal protection. Employers who carry out regular contacts with children if this is not regulated by specific regulations shall be allowed to request the publication of a specific conviction on data contained in the criminal record. This will increase child protection against sexual abuse and exploitation. Amendments and additions to the law will ensure better judicial cooperation between the EU authorities and increase the protection of the rights of the child's interests, and improve legal protection in civil matters under family law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105015	Thank you. You have two replicas, Mr. Dretar, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105016	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Martinovic, just a technical little question. We are currently in the middle of Russian aggression in Ukraine, and I recently returned from Ukraine, and I saw at the border, especially Ukrainian-Hungarian, problems because Hungarian customs officers of all the people we drove were taking biometric data or fingerprints and photographing them. The same thing happened again when we entered Croatia the same thing they asked us to do at the border crossing service, and here in light of this current law that we are talking about, to ask you whether there is a possibility when entering Croatia, or any country that is a member of the EU, of whether these persons are in any criminal record of persons entering Croatia from so-called Croatia. Third country? Thank you very much, i.e. you're having such a... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105017	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105018	Thank you very much. So, before we joined the EU, we had our own database in which we kept records of criminal and criminally punished persons for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. By entering the EU, therefore, we have come in a position to obtain information from all Member States on the criminal and criminal penalties of law enforcement in other Member States for our citizens and, of course, we have a very well-organised quality information system where we exchange fast data with all Member States on data from our database and vice versa. So we don't have data on third-country nationals and they can't, of course, be part of our system. Now this law improves our system and primarily for security reasons so that we have a database of third-country nationals, so outside the EU and people without citizenship who are convicted within the EU, and thus we will in some way raise the quality of security within the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105019	Thank you. Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105020	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In view of the second reading of the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, some changes have been made in view of the first reading, and you, as a proponent, have taken note of the opinions and objections made to this final draft of the law, and among other things, it has been given to newspapers by public authorities, in particular, that, through electronic access, data from criminal records can, above all, be obtained from the public procurement processes when this question is in large numbers, but it is also given to legal and physical persons when they are seeking data from criminal records for themselves that they can access it through the E-Citizen system. Well, here's what I'm saying first and foremost, and I welcome those newspapers that were put into the final proposal, because that certainly speeds up the whole process.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105021	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105022	Thank you very much I would say at this finding, so of course this law after this, this procedure so this intervention in its text will certainly be much more quality and much more functional. So he was primarily led through something that in civilizations clearly and existed since when civilization, so since various trials were established he was, the legal order for the fact of condemnation binds, binds certain legal consequences. These consequences can go into the field of inability to hire, the inability to engage politically and many other dishes. So, quality records are that we will now have, of course, more quality communication within the Member States. Of course, it is important for the safety of those social values that we protect through criminal law that we have data on convicted persons in order to prevent them from reaching some of the positions that they will do to criminals again, or to prevent them from doing harm to particularly protected categories, and in this case, they are most often focused on children.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105023	Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. Do the representatives of the board, the committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate and please, I'm opening a debate and starting with clubs is the first Social Democrats Club and Mrs Katica Glamuzina. She's gone, she's losing her right. The second Mr. Davor Dretar as we know it, as we know here, is the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105024	It's not hard for me to see.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105025	Oh, you're in shape.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105026	Always, thank you well-respected chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, this law, as Mr. Martinovic told us, certainly contributes to increasing the security of both our citizens here and those who will move or go to EU countries and third countries. After the first reading, we saw that here in the second reading, in principle, almost all the same, and that is why the Home Movement Club will certainly support these legislative changes, or the introduction of harmonisation with the EU. We particularly welcome the fact that these data will be faster and easier to access through the introduction into electronic access to criminal records data. Certainly once again I say we are in the moments of Russian aggression in Ukraine, the fact that millions of people have left Ukraine, some of them have their destination, found their destination in Croatia, and certainly Croatia as a state should take care of who enters our country. Of course, right now, these poor people, these Ukrainians and Ukrainians, their children and old people, are coming to us, but we also know that over the eastern borders, refugees from other countries and the safety of Croatia as a state and the safety of Croatian citizens must have absolutely no priority, or we must be absolutely in the first place. We will certainly support these legal changes and thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105027	Thank you. Mr Nikola Mažar will represent the positions of the HDZ Club of Representatives. Turn it on, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105028	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State Mr. Martinovic with co-worker, esteemed colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, as we have heard before us, is in the second reading The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Legal Consequences of Conviction, Criminal Records and Rehabilitation. All legal orders shall have the obligation to keep criminal records through competent authorities as a legal consequence of legally convicted persons. In our case, this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and Administration and we, as a state and before entering full EU membership, had records of legally convicted persons through criminal and criminal proceedings and used the data for the needs of national legislation. With the entry of the Republic of Croatia into full EU membership, the commitment has expanded as the Republic of Croatia is now exchanging data with all EU members on criminal and criminal records. For this reason, this final bill regulates the establishment and keeping of criminal records, regulates the availability, giving and erasure of data from criminal records, determines the Institute of Rehabilitation and prescribes deadlines for the rehabilitation of convicted persons. Amendments and additions to the Law on the Legal Consequences of Convictions, Criminal Records and Rehabilitation are primarily due to the creation of a new updated legislative framework in the field of international exchange of data from criminal records in the EU that enables more secure identification of convicted and wanted persons of third-country nationals and a more successful and quality fight against international terrorism. This also extends electronic tools in the exchange of data on criminality in the EU and establishes a centralised database on the identity of persons convicted of criminal offences in the EU Member State and are nationals of third countries or persons without citizenship. It is certainly positive that the database will also include biometric data, fingerprints and possibly facial imagery to ensure the safe and rapid identification of convicted persons. This also creates a presumption of interoperability of criminal records with other EU databases on the identity of persons, resulting in an increase in internal border security, an earlier control of visa-free passengers before reaching EU territory. The system for the protection of external borders against illegal migration is also improved and the data exchange system for issued visas is improved. Following the above, the Republic of Croatia will fulfil not only the obligation to exchange data effectively from criminal records with other EU Member States but will, above all, raise the security of its citizens, but also the citizens of the EU as a whole. From the position and perspective of the Republic of Croatia, the amendments to the law are important for the visa regime as well as for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the Schengen area, and thus these amendments and additions of the laws have additional importance for implementation into the national legislation of the Republic of Croatia. We welcome the proposals and opinions adopted by the applicant between the two readings in relation to the text of the draft law which was in the first reading, so it was introduced that the public authorities when they act under special laws allow electronic access to data from criminal records in cases where it is a very large number of requests for verification in criminal records, including checks in public procurement procedures that cannot be carried out objectively without the use of fast electronic technology. The provision in Article is also completed. 14th century 3. where it is possible for a person physically or legally when he is legally entitled to seek and obtain confirmation from a criminal record can do so through an e-Citizen system. A new article has been added. 9. for the reason it has been observed that some rehabilitation deadlines set by the legal Institute of Rehabilitation should be set differently, and also for the first time, it should be prescribed. Furthermore, the application of the law has identified certain doubts and insufficient regulation of the authorising officer on data from criminal records and data procurement procedures has also been accessed by their amendments and additions, and it is prescribed that the Ministry of Justice in charge of the area of justice provides courts and public lawyers with direct access to the data entered in the criminal record against the person for whom the prosecution has started or a criminal offence is committed with elements of violence or offence for which a prison sentence may be imposed. It is extremely important that direct access to data from criminal records is provided to certain competent authorities in particular in the field of social policy and courts in the field of family legal protection related to the protection of children's rights and interests, and that he welcomed and commended during the e-consultation as a significant and important step and the Office of the Ombudsman for Children. We also welcome the amendments to the provisions that will allow courts to have legal grounds for entry into criminal records and beyond criminal prosecution in civil matters, family legal protection most often related to the protection of children's rights and interests, but also to acts of violence or offences so severe that prisons can be imposed, and most often it is about violations of domestic violence, violations of public order and peace, abuse of intoxicating drugs or causing riots in competition stadiums. Finally, the aim of this final bill is to ensure quality judicial cooperation between EU competent authorities, and to provide mechanisms for better protection of the rights and interests of children, with the improvement of legal protection in civil rights cases in family law through further ensuring the rights of social care authorities to use data from criminal records when it comes to protecting the rights and interests of the child, to enable courts to see criminal records and beyond criminal prosecution, but also to enable employers whose employees are working with children to seek special assurance of data from criminal records. From the worst point of view, the HDZ Club will accept the proposed Final Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Legal Consequences of Conviction, Criminal Record and Rehabilitation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105029	Thank you, too. In front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns will speak the distinguished representative Željko Sačić, please welcome, good afternoon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105030	Dear Chairmans, secretaries and secretaries, colleagues and colleagues and the Croatian public. Here we have carefully read the contents of this proposal for a final law and found that progress is evident in relation to the existing legal situation. Sure as a club we'll support that, all those suggestions. We are also very surprised that you have implemented all of these legal achievements that have been suggested to you by the European Council, the European Commission which improves the communication of international legal authorities in the EU in particular with regard to the exchange of data on the convictions or rehabilitation of people who have been sanctioned by law and who have had their own life problems but have found themselves in an area of non-domestic but EU Member States, although it regulates one article here and significantly improves the communication of judicial authorities with regard to criminal records of non-EU nationals. All of this enables a far more efficient criminal prosecution system, or trial process itself. The most important thing for these persons is that, in the early stage of criminal proceedings, courts and state's attorneys may have direct insight into criminal records, which has not been the case until now, particularly in connection with the infringements. And the most important thing for us is to protect children from sexual predators, which is now very well and better monitored at EU level than at the previous level. So, all in all, we are getting closer to this, this standard all the faster and faster data exchange around, from criminal records that may have implications for reducing the crime rate, to more effective punishment and persecution of all perpetrators of criminal offences, and to ban access to certain, certain, certain jobs of people who have sinned on the legal system of a particular state, and the constitution and the law foresees the exact conditions that such people in the rehabilitation process must not be available to them. It is good, it is a useful unification and I would only say that you are even more communicating with the Croatian public as this process is going on, the formal legal process of Perkovic and Mustac's private legal relationship, but that is another topic, but in any case, the Croatian public is very interested that you as the Ministry of Justice are now planning to implement it on the basis of whether you will even contact the German judicial authorities because they have made a condemnative verdict, and we believe that the least degree of correctness is, in addition to contacting the judges of the execution and contacting their bodies, their bodies, the judicial bodies. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105031	Mr. Michel Jaksic will speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105032	... Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, good afternoon, nice greeting to all, so what we are on behalf of the SDP Club is an instruction and in discussions on the board and at first reading, we welcome these legislative changes because we simply think that compliance with all those European regulations and directives is something that certainly our judicial system can and should make better. [[Specially enabled.]] Especially considering the complexity of the subject we are discussing in this law. We all know very well and see it unfortunately now in our eyes at this historic moment in Ukraine that security and orderly one society and state is something that has no price and that we usually realize how much that security and freedom are worth only when we lose something like that, and then it's hard to get back. We all know that we live in a globalised world where certain criteria and scales and ways of committing crime and organised crime have changed absolutely, but all together, unfortunately, we look at a lot of criminal activities or a lot of such actions towards children, according to the weaker ones, where we can say that sometimes this horror seems to be getting worse and worse every year. And that's why connecting and dividing the databases and all that we can do together to better protect the security of the citizens of this country is something that should definitely be supported, something that should definitely be welcomed. And I believe that what we exchanged between the first and second readings in some discussions and what was implemented in this second reading of the law is still slightly correcting certain things so that all that is before us today is as easy and simple and quality as possible in our legal system and in the legal gains that we still have in Croatia at a certain level. There you go. Thanks again, everybody.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105033	Both to you and to you, finally in front of the HDZ Club, Mrs. Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105034	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here is practically in this debate in front of clubs all about these amendments and additions to the law. I would eventually recapture these amendments and supplement the law although things are of a technical nature because it is a matter of harmonising with the EU directive they still bring some important newspapers. First of all, it is keeping records of the punishment of third-country nationals and stateless persons and of the exchange of such data with EU Member States, which is very important and also in the fight against terrorism. So I think it's a significant paper. The introduction of biometric data in criminal records and the conduct of the same data which also contributes to a better fight against terrorism but also facilitates the work of all authorities involved in the persecution of persons who have committed crimes. What is also significant is that it enables misdemeanors, including civil courts, to have direct insight into those parts of the criminal record in those judicial proceedings where this is important for the protection of the rights and interests of the child or minors. Furthermore, it is also important that, from the criminal record, a confirmation is obtained through the system of e-Citizens, an e-Citizen, which also makes it somewhat easier for our citizens and speeds up the process of obtaining such a single certificate. In addition, as regards the rehabilitation deadlines that the law also prescribes, they are in the proposal, this final proposal also shortened in the situation where it is, it was found necessary, when it comes to the imposed sentence of prison until 1st g. for minors, this period of rehabilitation is shortened in such cases. And what is also important is to say that all that is prescribed by this law goes towards better governance and criminal records, but also to exchange data from criminal records between all EU Member States in order to make these data as accessible as possible and to make it easier for Member States to access that data. Here I think that this final bill will contribute to the overall fight against crime and against serious crime such as terrorism and thus contribute to the security of our citizens, as are the EU Member States and the security of all EU member states. Thank you. The HDZ Club, of course, supports this kind of... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105035	Thank you, too. I have to close the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Now a little notice, please let them listen to me and those who watch from their offices. When we're done with this point, or from home, when we're done with this agenda point, the next point is that we're going to move on to the club's point of view right now. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on general application items, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 241. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Secretary of State Mr Silvio Basic of the Ministry of Health is with us, would he take the floor? Yeah. Here you go. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105038	Thank you. I warmly welcome you all to the esteemed chairman, honourable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on general application matters shall ensure the implementation of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. 2019/1020 on market surveillance and conformity of products, and in part of the application to general applications. The legislative proposal shall be laid down by the competent law enforcement bodies, the Ministry of Health and the State Inspectorate, and shall define their tasks and obligations. Furthermore, that proposal clearly defines concepts within the meaning of the law and extends the concept of new concepts such as materials and objects that come into contact with water for human consumption, a product that poses a risk, a product that poses a serious risk, an end-user, a recall, a withdrawal, a provider of ordering services, product traceability, and a good producer practice. In addition, the legislative proposal for the protection of human health makes more detailed arrangements for the general conditions which must be met by general use in such a way as to place on the market only a health sound or consistent subject of general application, but which is correct in terms of sensory properties, species and content of harmful substances, product notices, uses, compositions and microbiological correctness, which cannot cause adverse effects on human health and the environment. Furthermore, all entities in business with general use matters responsible for placing such products on the market are obliged to verify whether they are subject to the general application of the obligation, obligations to draw up an EU declaration of conformity or technical documentation. In addition, only those items of general use which have a prominent notification of the product or declaration and composition data and clearly indicated product use may be placed on the market of the Republic of Croatia unless the purpose of the product is seen from its appearance and an highlighted warning for the safe use of the product. The legislative proposal prescribes a ban on the labelling, advertising and presentation of general use items in a way that can lead consumers to error as to the real composition, characteristics and purpose of the subject matter of general application. It also defines the provision that medicinal properties, prevention, therapy and/or treatment of the disease should not be prescribed for them. Smoking accessories are also prohibited. With regard to the implementation of the control system, which includes the supervision of the production and placing on the market of general application items, the legislative proposal provides that the entity shall notify the competent inspection authority within 72 hours of its knowledge or reasonable suspicion that it has produced or placed on the market cases of general use which do not meet the requirements of health law or conformity and shall ensure that such products are withdrawn from the market and end-users. The legislative proposal also extends the powers of the competent inspection body to carry out market surveillance in order to verify the health and safety of the subject-matter of the general application in such a way that the competent inspectorate has the right to purchase products on the internet under covert identity and to give them for examination in an authorised laboratory for the needs of inspection and control officers. In order to monitor more effectively the health regularity of the general use case on the market of the Republic of Croatia, this legislative proposal defines the competence of the State Inspectorate for the construction and implementation of the general application monitoring programme on the basis of a general risk assessment in accordance with Regulation 2019/1020 of the European Parliament and of the Council, as well as the rules governing official food control. In addition, the legislative proposal regulates the provisions which authorise laboratories to be obliged to the State Inspectorate as a market surveillance body with each of the examination reports according to which a sample of the subject of general use is invalid or incompatible with the design and risk assessment of the product. The proposed legislative proposal also stipulates that the State Inspector-in-Office border inspection conducts supervision of the sanitary technical and hygiene conditions of the general application of the procedure for the approval of customs warehouses and of the same issue of the certificate of compliance with the prescribed conditions. The legal proposal also provides that the border inspector of the State Inspectorate will not allow the release of the subject of general use in free circulation in the event of product health failure, and the importer has a period of 4 days to coordinate the identified deficiencies. The proposed legislative proposal lays down provisions concerning the powers of the competent inspectorates of the State Inspectorate, the competent inspectors of the State Inspectorate in order to improve the conduct of administrative and infringement measures. The final proposal in relation to the draft law provides that the notice on the product or declaration must be in Croatian, the amount of fines for the infringement of the natural person as an entity in the business of general application in accordance with the provisions of the law of violation has been amended and the text is additionally no-technically completed. I would like to propose, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the adoption of the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on general application matters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105039	And to you, you have three, three replicas. Mrs. Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105040	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, here's what's written in this and the first reading and in this final reading that three levels of labs, testing laboratories are authorized or reference laboratories, and I asked you on the board, but here's clean and for our public sakes to explain even a little more detail since we were told in the first reading that there were 26 authorized laboratories, you told us on the board that 9, the bill says that the list of these legal persons on the pages of the Ministry of Health, I tried to watch, I couldn't find that list of these laboratories. So here's to telling us a little bit closer when that public tender went at all, how many contracts were made, whether for a year or how, a little bit of explaining it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105041	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105042	Well, it's true for both of you. Therefore, all public health services can do such analysis but at the request of the manufacturer who will pay for it. And these 9 have been officially accredited since they came forward, as they have received accreditation based on their submissions. And only these 9 State Inspectorate, only those 9 can officially request this product analysis, but in all of these other public health services, means all of these remaining parts can be manufactured if it meets the conditions or if it will pay for its cost. I'm sorry that you tried to find this list on the Internet when it wasn't, it was envisaged, for it wasn't, but just by taking effect this law will be publicly, publicly published this list of all these accredited laboratories that can naturally be changed depending on the submission of applications and the acquisition of conditions. There's nine of them right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105043	Thank you. Mr. Hrvoje Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105044	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here in the Croatian Parliament, we have discussed and debated a lot about the laws concerning health care, safety, food compliance in this case on matters of general use or of objects that are simplified to come into contact with the skin and mucous membrane, but come into contact with food and drink, and it is extremely important to regulate all of this together in accordance with European legislation and contribute to further safety of Croatian citizens. It is also extremely interesting and commendable to mention that products sold on the Internet are also being taken into account, since we know that Internet sales are taking up a growing share of the total trade in all these products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105045	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105046	Thank you. All regulations of the European Commission come into force by adopting certain regulations, such as these, allow Member States to adapt special conditions in their country, and so we have, in this law, in some ways, completed this regulation and adapted it to the requirements on our market. And accordingly, we paid particular attention to the products, but not only to the final products but also to the raw materials for further production on the Internet, and that is exactly what we have made possible this purchase under covert identity by calculating that this will further ensure the correctness of these products on our market.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105047	Mr. Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105048	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Sir, I am here somewhere, and I am on the trail of this issue, in Krapina-Zagorje County, the Varazdin area, we have a large number of OPGs in Međimurje that use today's advantage and ease of selling or offering their products through social networks. We see here that this institution is regulated by a secret customer because it is certainly no one who produces food using these items of general use who does not want to poison or harm their customers. Let us know, people are listening to us now, to whom they can address so that they can do absolutely legal business. I'm sure that's what people are worried about, so let's just give them one more time to point out who and how not to get into trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105049	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105050	Thank you for this very important issue of food safety for our citizens. I'm sure no one wants to put an incorrect product on the market, but unfortunately this can happen some times, and everyone interested can also address the State Inspectorate, but also us in the ministry with questions that we will be happy to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105051	You don't have any more replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Okay. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Renata Sablar-Dračevac in front of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105052	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable state secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. So this bill is now in the second reading and on the Committee on Health we discussed this bill, in any case we should be commended for the acceptance of the proposal by Anja Shimprage to the representative in HS to add a prominent notice on the product or declaration that must be in Croatian. Therefore, we also commend the fact that the provisions are already in place in the draft law in the first reading who has a competent inspection body in the exercise of supervision for the purpose of verifying health and conformity, the right to take samples of general uses in production, as well as on the market and when importing, as well as the purchase of products on the Internet under covert identity. I think this change in the possibility of taking samples to boarding school will greatly help to detect some malfunctions since during this period we have a terrible pandemic that has led to increased use of the Internet as a place of purchase. The question if the goods are already on the market, that means on the Internet how long will it take before its failure is established? How many items for children end up on our market before they are found to be medically insecure and then withdrawn from the market. In view of the pandemia and the growing transition on the Internet, the question arises as to how many medically invalid goods are coming, for example. from other countries of China or some other country? It is a good thing that the Rapid Warning System Rapeks is produced immediately by removing from the market in the Member States and so on in Croatia. Rapeks is a rapid alarm system for dangerous non-food products and it is important to exchange official notifications on measures and actions on products that pose a serious risk to consumer health and safety if there is no specific regulation in EU legislation with the same objective. The system ensures a rapid exchange of information between all Member States and the European Commission on dangerous products withdrawn or recalled from the European market in order to take appropriate measures anywhere in the EU, ensuring a high level of consumer safety in the EU. I am personally very interested in how much we will have an inspector who participates in the purchase or takeover under a secret identity, and we wish that within a year you would give us a report on the results of what was found on this new type of market. Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway are currently participating in this system except EU Member States. The use of this system excludes food and food for animals, and materials and objects that come into direct contact with food and medicinal products and medicinal products as they are covered by another specific alarm system. In each EU Member State, a competent authority or a national contact point is designated as a contact point with the European Commission and other Member States to be sent and from which all official notifications exchanged through the Rapex are received, as well as in the Republic of Croatia as a competent authority, have been designated by the Central Office of the State Inspectorate. Buying toys on popular websites originating in China toy of dangerous composition that do not meet standard product safety. How many of these invalid toys are on the market because of the lack of warning for use and age means we do not have adequate warnings on how they are used and for which age group they are used. It would also highlight the chemical composition of the plastic from which we drink water, so plastic bottles, on each bottle is a triangle with a number in the middle 51 most commonly used type of plastic, and is usually intended for single use. Multiple use is not recommended due to the possibility of bacterial contamination and I think it is very important to know because this five packaging is often used multiple times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105053	Thank you, too. Mr. Ivan Kirin Club of HDZ Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105054	Honorable Vice President, honourable representatives of the government, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. The general application law regulates the concept of the subject matter of general application, the conditions relating to health regularity or conformity must be met by general use, general conditions for the production and placing on the market of general use items, the general use control system, the systematic laboratory examination to monitor health regularity or the conformity of the general application, law, duties and powers of the competent authorities in relation to the general application cases produced in the Republic of Croatia or imported into the market of the Republic of Croatia. This law has been published twice in order to bring national legislation in line with EU rules in the field of general application and to implement the reform measure under the 2018 National Reform Programme. with a view to ensuring a prerequisite for the start of the work of the State Inspectorate or for taking over from inspection, from the jurisdiction of the Sanitary Inspectorate, the Ministry of Health at the State Inspectorate. The legislative proposal shall ensure the implementation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019. 1020 on market surveillance and product conformity. The proposed law also defines the new provisions of the competent inspection body in the exercise of supervision for the purpose of verifying health regularity or compliance which have the right to take, inter alia, samples of the transfer of general use in production and on the market, and when importing, and which includes the purchase of products on the Internet, of course under covert identity. They shall also have the right to take the raw materials in the production process and to give them for questioning in an authorised laboratory for the purpose of inspection and official controls. The competent authorities for the implementation of this law shall be the Ministry of Health and the State Inspectorate. The concepts used in this law are items of general use: materials and articles that come in direct contact with food, materials and objects that come in contact with water for human consumption, objects of broad consumption, which are dishes, accessories, packaging, children's toys, cosmetic products, detergents, tobacco, tobacco products, means that come in direct contact with skin or mucous membranes, items for decoration of faces and bodies, jewelry and imitation jewelry. Materials and articles that come into direct contact with food are materials and articles defined by the European Community Regulation of 2004. and these include products intended for infants and children under 3.g. to facilitate feeding, sucking, calming and sleeping. Under this law, it is important to mention art. 7., it is important for end-users that the items of general use placed on the market in the Republic of Croatia must have a prominent notice on the product, a declaration containing data prescribed by specific regulations of course in the Croatian language. Art. 9, these articles shall be prohibited from marking, advertising and presentation of objects of general use in such a way as to lead consumers astray as to the actual composition, characteristics and purpose of general use transfer, and shall be defined as a provision that the medicinal properties, prevention, treatment or treatment of the disease should not be attributed to them. Smoking accessories are also prohibited. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 6., the product information on the subject of general use to be placed on the market in the Republic of Croatia must comply with consumer protection rules and provisions of specific rules governing certain types of general application. In accordance with this law and the regulations adopted under this law, only the health valid or consistent subject-matter of general application must be placed on the market. correct with regard to sensory properties, type and content of harmful substances, product information, composition and microbiological correctness where necessary and which cannot cause adverse effects on human health and the environment. The State Inspectorate shall draw up and conduct monitoring of the subject matter of general application. Violations in general use cases are related to the State Inspectorate so that they are from art. 42 to 46 of the law on violations in business with general application cases, depending on the type of infringement provided for and sanctioned, and that is 2,000 to 100,000 kuna. The law is comprehensive, of course the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the HDZ Club will support it. Thank you for your attention and may the good Lord keep you safe.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105055	Thank you. Mr. Davor Dretar in front of the Club of Representatives of the Democratic Movement, the Homeland Movement of Pardon and Democratic The Homeland Democratic Movement, extremely democratic. [[Intruder Dretar: We are going towards democracy.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105056	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Of course, this law is all that improves the safety of Croatian citizens, health security should certainly be supported, and how important this is I will show you only one small example. I live here in Zagreb, and quite a number of my friends and friends order certain food products via the Internet, most often it is via Facebook where some small OPGs have their own sites and then it is quite convenient to order homemade carrots, onions, garlic, and, of course, it is immediately put on some homemade pizza and come home eggs and everything that someone in the city really needs, and wearing that prefix sign is domestic or domestic. As I asked in the replica the question of Mr. Secretary of State once again, I would ask all those who listen to us, and we have knowledge of such activities that the State Inspectorate is doing its job and that they appear, and they will appear from now on, because this institution of a secret customer is governed by this law. Don't put dear people at risk, carry out all the laws of prescribed work so that they can put such things on the market. I'm not just talking about food here, of course, but about all those boxes, those plastic bags and packings, because these are the items of general use that you dear OPGs and OPGs use, and sometimes you don't even know whether they are healthy or correct according to all the legal criteria. How important this is, of course, to mention, other than materials and objects that come into direct contact with food that are, or objects of general use, are all those objects and materials that come in contact with human consumption water, which our colleague Sablar-Dračevac said and warned that you would be careful of using PET packaging naturally, although you know, of course, especially in our local old Croatian traditions, nothing is being thrown away, so of course wine and brandy are used in PET packagings for more, more, more, more years not to say for decades, so people also keep an eye on it. There's someone who should have said that, of course. There are also various pieces of dishes, accessories, equipment, devices for the production of general use items, packaging of what the representatives before me have warned about, certainly and children's toys are extremely easily available and very cheap if you buy them online. Of course, let's hope that the State Inspectorate has enough time and enough people to carry out all these huge controls because you can really order whatever you want on the Internet today, and it comes to your home address in a few days. The question, of course, is how healthy such products are especially when given to children. Equally, of course, the same thing is also true for smoking accessories, cigarette papers all of which can, of course, still be obtained, but I say pay attention to dear citizens to make it in some way safe. We're all ordering these today, we're all buying them. Here I find it very good and precisely prescribed what the process of buying or checking the correctness via the Internet looks like. First, the competent health inspector of the State Inspectorate orders the sample as a secret customer and then on the cause taken, so when that sample arrives, the competent health inspector shall make up a record, along with a print of evidence of the order and delivery of the goods, so to the order and account. It then informs the person responsible for the subject of general application that the ordered goods are subject to official controls, then the sample of the case is taken, delivered to the laboratory for analysis and then, of course, we wait for the lab's findings. The purchase costs shall be borne by the State Inspectorate if, of course, the sample is consistent, if not, then the infringement provisions at the end of this legislative proposal are further spoken of. The same and same thing is true and special attention should also be paid to cosmetic products. I have a 20-year-old daughter who, of course, buys it all lively online because it's more expensive, faster available. When placing cosmetic products on the market, they must meet the microbiological parameters of health regularity, so once again I ask people to seriously consider and not do themselves any harm. As regards any health failure or non-compliance of the subject of general use, we can always warn of the fact that something can be medically correct or in accordance with the legal provisions, but it does not necessarily have to be quality and does not necessarily do good to our organism in whatever way we use it. On Wednesday I saw on a sports channel an ad for one wine for which we all know very, very well that I will not mention the name here, I suppose we all know well what it is, the wine that is of all the people in Croatia who are involved in the production and marketing of wine marked not as wine but as so-called wine. the wine preparation and it is fully legally advertised on our market or on one television channel in the event of a football game, so I remind that wine, or this wine preparation may satisfy the conditions of health and conformity, but in any case it does not satisfy any qualitative parameters by which it could be called. In any case, however, the Club of Representatives of the Democratic Homeland Movement will support these legal changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105057	Thank you, too. Mrs. Andreja Maric will represent the SDP's Club's views. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105058	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues, so we have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on General Use Matters, a final draft of the law. This is the third novelty, so far there have been two innovations in order to bring national legislation in line with EU rules in the field of general application and to implement the reform measure under the National Reform Programme for 2018 with a view to ensuring the preconditions for the start of work of the State Inspectorate. This legislative proposal shall ensure the implementation of EU Regulation 2019/1020 of the European Parliament. What does this legal proposal bring us? Therefore, more detailed arrangements are made for general conditions which must be met by general use, control of the production and placing on the market of these items, and in order to monitor more effectively the health accuracy of the general use case on the Croatian market. The responsibility of the State Inspectorate for the construction and implementation of the general application monitoring programme is defined here and the role of the Ministry of Health has also been defined. In relation to first reading, Articles 4, 28, and 38 of the final proposal of the law have been made here. In Article 7, as we have already heard, it is added that for a product notice or declaration it must be in Croatian. Furthermore, an additional no-technical proposal has been developed to avoid excluding the application of general rules or to the exclusive application of specific rules for a part of the concepts already prescribed by European regulations. In Article 19 of the final draft of the law, part of the provision relating to the conduct of the sample analysis and the assessment of the risk of non-compliant samples taken in accordance with the general application monitoring programme was also deleted, in accordance with the proposal of the Croatian Employers' Association. Therefore, we have already said that the new provisions of the competent inspection body in the exercise of supervision are listed here and defined for the purpose of verifying health regularity or compliance. It is also stated that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources which would therefore have an impact on the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. This is a bit confusing, perhaps not directly, but since three levels of laboratories are defined here, so the testing, authorized or reference laboratories, and since we assume that the State Inspectorate will play a more significant role, or perhaps even more work, then a few questions are asked. So, how many people are actually dealing with this in the State Inspectorate, do we have enough people to carry out surveillance, how much money is provided annually for the inspectorate, whether these funds will be restrictive for more frequent controls and it would be good to get a report on how many measures have been banned from withdrawing or recalling the items of general application at the annual level in the Republic itself or in shipments from imports. So here's what we appealed in our first reading, we say, we pray and now in our second reading, so we'd like to get that data. Also, you'd just repeat what I said in the replica as well as what the secretary of state meant. So, all together is if we get a good idea of 26 authorised laboratories by the Republic of Croatia that can be addressed by manufacturers if they're paid, and these 9 that we've listed is what covers actually the State Inspectorate. You told us on the board that 4 are private in Zagreb, and 5 is state-owned, HZJZ so Zagreb, Andija Stampar, Institute of Public Health of the Primorje-Gorski County, Split-Dalmatia and within the framework of the Faculty of Food Biotechnology, I think I have well established the material of the Jell-O. So we have already said that the competent authorities for the implementation of this law are the Ministry of Health, or the State Inspectorate. It is very important to say that, among other things, the Ministry is a register of manufacturers of general use, and the State Inspectorate is developing a monitoring plan for consignments from imports based on a risk assessment. Well, now that we're talking so much about general use stuff, then we need to say what these things are. So these are materials and objects that come in direct contact with food. Materials and objects that come in contact with water for human consumption and objects of wide production. Here it is very important to note that in this group of items that come directly into contact with food are definitely also products intended for infants and children under 3 years of age to facilitate feeding, sucking, calming, sleeping, so dude cheaters. There is a very important safety of these products, and of these items of broad consumption are dishes, accessories, equipment and devices for the production of objects of general use, packaging for objects of general use, toys, cosmetic products, detergents, tobacco, tobacco and related products, objects that come in direct contact with the skin or mucous membrane. So here's the important thing over and over again so our citizens can do what it's about. In any event, we will all agree that it is very important to place on the market only medically correct or in line with the general uses in question, and what is not to be withdrawn or not allowed to enter the market. We have already mentioned a brave system, so the system of rapid exchange of official notifications on measures and actions on products that pose a serious risk to consumer health and safety. This takes place all together through the contact points of the Member States or the European Commission and covers measures taken to prevent and prevent the placing on the market or withdrawal of these harmful products and a list of such products is kept. In addition, it is very important for us, in addition to the safety itself, that the items placed on the market in the Republic of Croatia and also in other countries must have a clearly highlighted declaration or notification of the product. This declaration must be clearly, visiblely written. Unfortunately, the font used for the declarations is still too small, so you really need to increase it while you have the product in your hand to even see these fine letters. It is good that it is complemented that of course it must be in Croatian. It is also very important to motivate our consumers to follow the deadlines and we have also said this in several laws to further educate our citizens, which means to use it to the best, because people don't really distinguish it and it happens that in fact large quantities of food are being wastefully thrown and could be used. General use items must also have composition data and must bear on the text the indication of the clearly stated purpose of the product. It is also important to point out that the law prohibits the labelling, advertising and presentation of the subject matter of general application in such a way as to lead the consumer astray about the permanent composition, characteristics and purposes of the subject matter of general application. It is also prohibited to prescribe and advertise medicinal properties of objects in general use that do not have this property. It should also be mentioned that it should be stopped at the end of the so-called. identity thefts, i.e. by false representation of certain products as medicinal products, medicinal properties, are actually used by names and last names even here are respected healthcare professionals, professors, etc. Smoking accessories are forbidden, and energy drinks for children should certainly be prohibited. It's still in the drawer and it can't be brought by the ministry, so I'm taking the opportunity to talk about it and we're going to insist on it anyway. Furthermore, a few more things that are important to us, so what I've been trying to do is look at a list of these nine laboratories on the Ministry's network pages, but there's going to be a list of these health and other legal persons who have a solution to the ministry's network pages, so here we're waiting for that list. In addition, authorised laboratories are required to deliver to the State Inspectorate any test report with a risk assessment made for the product. I find it interesting here in art. 18. to say that the case of testing tobacco and related products on the parameters of tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide is done by laboratories that have accreditation. So does that mean that not all laboratories are accredited or accreditation is just for these tobacco products here's what I don't get. Furthermore, I have already said that in art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3]. And what else is important to say about the Internet Sales, yeah, I'm done. [[Intruder Radin: Time, thank you.]] Well, mostly we'll support this final bill anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105059	Thank you very much. Ms. Marija Selak Rasdic will represent the positions of the Club of Representatives of Mosta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105060	Introductoryly, it may be necessary to make one more clear note of what this is about because the name of the law itself, as well as the label of the items of general use, may be misleading because it is quite abstract. It's about those items that we use every day, of things that concern children, toys, etc. through cosmetics, cigarettes and everything that comes into contact with food. So this is one of those things I like to call life laws, laws that concern all of us because we use these objects, and we are not aware of what they often contain can be harmful to our health while this law should rightly regulate their way of controlling them in a way that prevents the negative consequences of human health. So general use is not some abstraction that can refer to anything but objects that we use daily in life. It is particularly important to stress that this applies greatly to children’s subject matter, therefore the most vulnerable and sensitive social group. When we talk about the legal proposal itself, we were already talking about it in the first reading, so I will sum up that part, and I will just point out once again that since it is a matter of harmonising with European law, there are no specific remarks there, although I think that some things should be more clearly worked out. So, this part of the art. 5. which refers to Art. 4. which changes here is clearly stated when we talk about eu regulations and eu declarations of conformity or technical documentation, but they are to us, and later in an individual debate if I do not get to look more closely at the problems arising from imports and the use of general use items, we are much more concerned with those items that come from third countries that do not possess the same control system as we do in Europe. We will easily insist on obtaining eu declarations of conformity of products for those subject to that control system, however, in which way we control whether sufficient simple controls for items coming from third countries remain an open issue because I will later specify concrete scientific research here for us or for our citizens the biggest problems lie. Furthermore, when we talk about the legal proposal itself, here I was also talking about that there should be a declaration that is a key document in the Croatian language, however, it should be noted once again that at the moment of the crisis at the time of the crown it was avoided to quote translations of different products and there it was just justified by the coronary crisis. So, I don't think that practice can be allowed even in times of crisis because it brings consumers, our citizens, into a very unpredictable position, and it's potentially risky for their health as well. Therefore, all products at any time regardless of the urgency of purchase must have a secure declaration in Croatian. This part of the law relating to the souvenir market which must have on the wording of the labelling clearly stated purpose of the product has one supplement that says, unless the purpose of the product is seen from their appearance which I consider to be deleted because it is unnecessary in the laws which are a normative framework and which must be unequivocal to leave room for interpretation of whether the purpose of the product is visible from some prospect, there is no need for someone above this to gat, it can also be clearly written in the text of the declaration. As for inspections here, of course, it states that they will be carried out, but it may not be bad and legally prescribed their frequency to make sure there are enough inspections. And of course, what always remains as a question in our legal framework, and it is never clear that the reasons for the range of penalties have been solved, so the range of penalties in different laws is stated differently, and that we do not have enough justification for why this range of penalties is so large or on the basis of which the criteria are so punished. Now I will look back on what we are really interested in, and it refers to the items of general application that need to be regulated or controlled by this law. So, in order to have at all an excessive debate on general use matters or on everything we use daily and what directly has an opportunity to affect our health, we should have publicly available reports from the State Inspectorate. There has now come a new report at the end of the 3rd month for 2021, but it is a report to us parliamentary representatives or citizens of the Republic of Croatia although it is marked as one that must be publicly unusable. Why is it useless for us? I don't know if any of you have opened this report to find out exactly how much state inspection has found non-compliant products, those who don't have different EU certificates and those that contain illicit metals, metals and other things that migrate from packaging to food that, for example, children use, and such data, the data that you really care about will not be found in the state inspection report. How is that possible? We go through different reports here, we go through public procurement reports, etc. and we always have very concrete examples that we can manage to assess the situation of things on the Croatian market, and accordingly we are active participants in the debate on what needs to be improved. The state inspection report looks so that you have a table view of their planned activities that are general type so that instead of state inspection you could place the title of any other state office, the content could remain the same, and along with some general floscules like those that we will watch the food and that we will regularly control you cannot find out anything at all. This is very bad and citizens have the right to a transparent report on what indeed the state's inspection in the past year has found, and it concerns their health directly. Secondly, the website of the State Inspectorate, the key information we find out, for example recently was when we talk about the food affair if we call it the Kinder Eggs, we find out from the media. If you try to find such information on the website of the State Inspectorate, then you will find one 20, 30, 50 different their reports, and also this information, information directly related to consumer protection or unambiguous protection of Croatian citizens, must be shown separately so that at any time on state websites, they are available to our citizens, and not depending on whether they have opened one of the portals in the morning, and then find out whether they are surfing sites and passing through various documents that are more than a matter of the technical organisation of the State Inspectorate in order to get the information that is crucial to them. The objective of the State Inspectorate Plan since I have also passed this document, although I do not know with which concrete benefit we cannot even ask the question of whether it is achieved because we do not know what should be effective supervision, but in this plan we can find syntagms such as the objective of the plan to meet the citizens with work and plan. Have we really met them if we have this type of report and this type of website? The State Inspectorate according to what it says has 432 million kuna. We can find within these documents different information, for example that 100% food inspection is really done while veterinary inspections are only talking about being partially done is 60% done. Why, how? We don't know. We can't find out from the report. So, I think that we could have discussions about laws we must have too many discussions on reports because reports are the material from the field that gives us real information on which we here as informed and responsible parliamentary representatives propose legal changes. Unless we have available such information, the debate on legal changes seems almost unnecessary. When we talk about such an important topic about the health of our children, and then the health of all other citizens and information cannot be communicated with the flossula that it will be publicly available rather than that public accessibility means something, it means readability, transparency and simplicity, information that is visible, and when we talk about the report then it really needs to serve what reports serve not some kind of table view that serves as more as a communication material within the state inspectorate itself than that we really know what is going on in Croatia, what I will talk about more in an individual debate. Since there is no reason for excessive interest in this subject, it seems that I will speak in a few seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105061	And now you're going to have to speak individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105062	So here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to continue this debate. So I would like to discuss subjects of general use I have passed several scientific papers and graduates to see what the real state of Croatia is. So first, let's see what's been found to be problematic so far, as far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned. These are those consumer notifications that you can only get to if you pass all other technical notifications and should be separately communicated and hopefully be heard for that to change, it is not particularly difficult. So, for example, in Croatia, if we look at the current course of 2022, there was an impeachment of the product fresh&cold ice jar for reasons of family B migration of unauthorized paint used in food originating in China. This product was not in line with the European Community Regulation on materials and articles coming into contact with food and repealing the Directive, etc. So we have a product coming from China. I'll repeat, the biggest problem really is that if you look at statistics, they represent exactly the products that come from third countries. Then you had a recall product cooler south and again these are ice bowls or some ice cubes because children can get their swallowing or asphyxiation because blue ice can be replaced with these plastic ice cubes. And you had a recall to a set of children's dishes that was dangerous because children's cups and plates were not in line with one EU regulation again because of the established migration of melamine. So you have two problems. One is the migration of certain harmful ingredients in the products that children use in this case, and another problem is that the appearance of the product can be dangerous and misleading, so it can lead to the health hazard of children or those who consume them. A new study of Croatian health professionals like this, which I now present on the basis of individual consumer notifications should be kept in the report, so that we see on paper the unequivocally state of the country of Croatia, how much of this product is indeed recalled. A new study by Croatian health experts has shown that declarations on cosmetic products often protect users because they do not specify any potentially harmful ingredients and have requested new research into this impact and more control of the declarations. So, out of 66 samples of 10 children's shampoos and baths, 26 cosmetic products for the pausing area and 30 samples of kram and soap. In 4 samples of children’s shampoos and baths, or 40%, the presence of potentially harmful ingredients of parabens and phenoxyethanol was demonstrated while phthalate was found in all samples, but is not listed in any of the declarations of these samples. So this is the latest research. People we're talking about is that 40% of children's shampoos are somehow wrong. Why don't we know that information? How do state institutions deal with this data presented to them by our scientific experts through research on the Croatian market? Will the inspections be common? To what extent have they conducted surveillance? And what are the consequences of such scientific research, they serve to be applicable in practice. I haven't found them yet. Parabens were found in 7.7% of the products for the area of care are mainly not listed on the product declaration, and diet phthalate was found in 19% of samples. So I think the state inspection should have mechanisms through which it will react directly when such research comes out. One scientific paper or graduate paper has done research on how many average citizens of the Republic of Croatia are informed of the content of the declaration on cosmetic products. Nearly 75% of respondents in the purchase of cosmetic products read the declaration which confirms that it is extremely important, yet 1/4 citizens do not deal with the product declaration at all. When we talk about metals that are one of the biggest problems, one graduate paper also explicitly states that in countries where there are no legal frameworks as Asian countries for that risk, there is a lack of conformity of products with international border values such as China and Cambodia. In analysed samples of aluminium, copper, mercury, lead, zinc and nickel a statistically significant difference between Asia and Europe. [[Intruder: Thank you, unfortunately time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105063	You have two replicas. Mr. Dretar, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105064	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Representatives Selak Rasdić, here I am while you spoke in just a few minutes by simply searching came up with more than 30 pages that they offer, via the internet of course of children's trampoline. And we know when we do playgrounds in Croatia, how big is a series of legal provisions that playground builders have to respect already from the very background, through color, because we know that children come into contact with all of this, so just let us just once more emphasize what you said to people in your own presentation in front of the club, and here in the individual how important it is, follow, read the declarations. Unfortunately, a friend of mine buys such a child's trampoline from which, within 2-3 months after standing outside, he started peeling paint, so the big question is how did such a trampoline come into the Croatian market at all and how could someone buy it? So just once again, I'm asking you to point out the extraordinary importance of this sort of thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105065	Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105066	Thank you for pointing this out to your colleague Dretar. I agree that we should be here to animate the citizens and raise awareness of what the problem is to highlight the specific products that they may be unwittingly using without knowing that they are putting their children or themselves at risk. When we talk about children's toys, we've had some serious problems with what's called the so-called "kidney." floorings for children who serve to crawl precisely because of color. Otherwise, research has also shown that the highest concentration of illicit funds is in pink. They may need to be concerned about those who use traditionally baby girlish color pink, having female children because for some reason there is a number of such materials or metals in them. However, we have no transparent data from state institutions that we can track over the year how many such products have been withdrawn so you rely on some third sources and yet you do not have relevant information that would be official which is inadmissible. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105067	Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105068	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues here in more exposure we agreed that we need data transparent, publicly available from both the State Inspectorate and this whole series of products that are harmful, which are withdrawing. We who are MPs don't have that kind of information unless we're chopping them up, let alone our citizens. You mentioned the aphthalates. In fact, our citizens don't know enough about it. The aphthalates are actually in all these objects, plastic packagings, used in cosmetic preparations, in children's toys, they're soft, soft and plastics, our citizens don't know enough about how harmful the aphthalates really are, and experts themselves say that even the hormonal balance of the riots, carcinogenics are in larger quantities, etc., means how to actually teach citizens that they recognize the harmful preparations and how to avoid them in principle. I think just reading the declaration is of course necessary, but it's not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105069	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105070	I agree with you because especially when we talk about these things, which is why I have listed this background, children consume packaging, children consume packaging, they may often even be interested in more packaging than I am in the product. So the thing is really serious and potentially dangerous. This flossula, which is that in the inspection plan their research and action will be made publicly available does not mean anything, so not only do we not have this technical data that is important to us for work, transparently and separately communicates but our citizens cannot at all know what is called off, so in some way direct their consumer activities, but I agree that this is insufficient because we may all be from some campaigns and those big inscriptions that are now selling things learned by the difolt that the paraben is harmful, but for 90% of these things that I have instructed people never even heard or know why they are harmful. It is the responsibility of state institutions to find a way for people to find out what the problem is and why such things should be avoided, otherwise the declaration does not mean anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105071	Thank you very much. Next individual debate, Mrs. President. Maja Grba Bujevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105072	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will concentrate in an individual debate on only one article or more specifically in art. 5. that actually changes art. 4. where there are two items, one item is, that I don't read it to you you've all looked at it anyway, we'll actually, I suggest that one amendment be accepted. I ask the Secretary of State to make this area much clearer. Therefore, the amendment could be read if the health or non-compliance of a general use is part of a single production series, party or consignment of a common use of the same class by category and description is considered to be all the items of general use of that production party, batch or consignment to be medically invalid or incompatible. So without this additional article, the paragraph, may be left with such a possibility of a different interpretation, and I would very much like it not to happen because what is important to say is that this amendment makes it even clearer, in fact defines that all the items in a particular series are withdrawn, and not just one lot, I think we know who we are from that profession, so this incorrect pattern. That's how it is now, and it leaves me with one possibility for everyone to interpret things in their own way. If that is possible, it would certainly be good for the health, health and safety of the health of our citizens, and I think that is ultimately our whole goal. That's just me for a little while.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105073	Thank you. Wait, you have a replica, you have a replica, Mr. Simic and Mrs. Smith. Maria Selak Rasudic later.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105074	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I agree with your proposal, but I wanted to comment on something else. The Ministry of Health and the State Inspectorate is in charge of the implementation of this law. It is also good and in close coordination and should be implemented and the state inspectorate should do both the evaluation plan and the monitoring plan, be carried out when there is a need for planned supervision of course and extraordinary supervision and all this is well-coordinated together, here and both, both institutions in charge of implementing the law to coordinate and with a rapid EU information system. In this way we achieve a better, more quality inclusion in the actual implementation of this law of all stakeholders and the greater security of all our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105075	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105076	Well, here I can only add that as in any other business, this coordination and communication is essential that something can be done. According to my knowledge, and now this communication and cooperation is excellent, but of course this law opens up an even greater possibility actually because of the division of that part of the job, which is who does that coordination to be as good as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105077	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105078	Dear colleagues, Grba Bujević, I support your amendment and I think it is an unrecognizable problem that should be more clearly articulated because indeed our citizens are extremely confused when they see that one product is marked as incorrect or that there is an irregularity especially when it comes to food, and then after that it is only being withdrawn from use, and the people wonder whether it protects consumers or citizens or producers so as not to harm the entire production, and we know what is the concrete consequence. When people see it, there was now this example of Kinder's eggs, it refers to food, not to the subject of general use, but to citizens it's clearer then they go to avoid Kinder's eggs at all because who's now going to watch which exact date is produced, and who's going to believe that it's just about that Kinder egg. In this case, does the inspection refer to other products of the same manufacturer or of the product itself in order to confirm what it says as a measure, which is that only the product is withdrawn and that the other products are health care?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105079	I'm glad my colleague and I agreed that what I suggested is not to disagree, so we'll all agree. It's really hard what we all have to think about is what you're talking about. So I certainly think that food security and some other products should be very, very standardized. They say usually you don't need to hypernorm here I don't agree with it, I think that there should be very careful, very specific and certainly not make mistakes that then lead to these insecuritys of our citizens. That's not a good message. I agree with you, and I think this is the way they look at each other, and this isn't the same theme here, when they're seen as being meant for lotions, it means that they're all covered by all these series that fall into it that way, and that's how they should be presented. Here, that's my opinion, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105080	Thank you, thank you very much, no more replicas. Mr. Hrvoje Šimić, club of HDZ representatives, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105081	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. State secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, here we are discussing today the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on General Application Matters. As we have already said, this is about harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. The general application law regulates the concept of the subject matter of general application, the conditions which, in relation to health law or in accordance with the general application, the general conditions for the production and placing on the market of general use, the general application control system, the systematic laboratory examination in order to monitor health regularity or conformity of the general application, law, duties and powers of the competent authorities in relation to the general application cases produced in the Republic of Croatia or imported and placed on the market of the Republic of Croatia. That law has been adopted twice in order to bring national legislation in line with EU rules on general application matters and to implement the reform measure under the National Reform Programme for 2018 and with a view to ensuring a precondition for the start of work of the State Inspectorate. The legislative proposal defines the tasks and obligations of the competent authorities and clearly defines the concepts within the meaning of that law. This law lays down the new provisions of the competent inspection body in the exercise of supervision in order to carry out health law or conformity which it has the right to take samples of general use in both production and market and import, including the purchase of products on the Internet under covert identity, including raw materials in the production process and to be put under examination in an authorised laboratory for the purposes of inspection and official controls. The proposed law also lays down provisions concerning the powers of the competent sanitary inspectors of the State Inspectorate and to improve the conduct of administrative and infringement measures. This law also established that the competent authorities for the implementation of this law are the Ministry of Health and the State Inspectorate and have defined their individual tasks and obligations. What are the most important concepts used in this law, and what is their meaning? General use items are materials and objects that come into direct contact, directly into contact with food and objects of broad consumption. Materials and articles that come into direct contact with food are materials and articles defined by European Community Regulations 2004 and products intended for infants and children under 3 years of age to facilitate feeding and suckling, calming and sleeping. The items of extensive consumption among them include dishes, accessories, equipment and devices for the production of general use items, packaging for general use items, toys including products intended for infants, children and young people up to 3 years old, cosmetic products defined by the European Community regulation, also certain detergents, tobacco, tobacco products, smoking accessories, also certain items and means that come into direct contact with the skin or mucous membranes, including products for adult entertainment and items for decoration of the face and body. There are also defined products that come into contact with skin and mucous membranes, which contain health claims, special purpose, limited method of administration, and specific warnings. The production of the subject matter of general use is defined as their preparation, processing, processing, processing, packaging and storage by the manufacturer. It is also defined as the placing on the market of general use items such as transport, storage, sale, use or use of the subject of general use in the provision of services as well as any other way of placing them on the market, including their imports or exports. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of funding from the Republic of Croatia's budget, and several nomotechnical changes have been made in relation to the text that passed the first reading. It was also accepted by the parliamentary representative's proposal in the sense that on the declaration, the declaration must be highlighted in Croatian. In accordance with the proposal of the Croatian Employers' Association in Article 19 of the final proposal, part of the provision is also deleted with regard to the implementation of sample analysis and risk assessment of non-compliant samples taken in accordance with the general application monitoring programme. In the debate on the draft law on the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, as well as in the debate at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, there were no additional content remarks and proposals that could be particularly obvious. Finally, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the Final Proposal on Amendments and Supplements to the General Application Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105082	Thank you, too. Mrs. Marija Selak Rasdic, on behalf of the Most, also final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105083	Before I go on a final review and sum up these proposals and remarks concerning the work of the State Inspectorate when we talk about the subject of general application and its reports, even then there are legislative proposals resulting from these reports I want to look at another unrecognizable problem since I see that there will be no proposing here to conclude the debate, so I will not get an answer to that question. What we can also notice in recent times and it seems relatively common even if we compare these products with all other products, is that as non-compliant and incorrect, eco-products occur very often. So we expect from eco-certification some assurance that we are safe when we consume these products. Let me give you an example. Let's say the recall of the almond eco-products of a manufacturer that I don't now highlight because there's an increased amount of cyanide. I'm sure you've seen similar ones recently for rice and for many other products, so eco-certificate products that are increasingly proven to be invalid. I can't determine here and I won't get a response from the State Inspectorate now whether it's a trend, whether it's more frequent controls, and if it really means whether I'm even doing this certificate eco what it's supposed to mean to our citizens, which is a guarantee of some form of health and safety that goes beyond what's already allowed and the right standard. My principle problem is that the eco-industry cannot be an industry of profits that earns from failures and insufficient health quality of the normal industry. Because today we sell products exactly on the principle that they are clearly without parabens, etc. All these additional elements that are treated even as permitted today, even though we know that health issues should be incorporated into the content and products of the standard industry, not that we have another industry, the eco industry, the profit industry that is just like consumerism and is paralysing at the insufficient health level of this normal industry. Eco needs to be standard. But my question here is what happens to that standard. Very often today we withdraw exactly the eco products. Finally, as far as these legal changes are concerned, I have already made comments on behalf of the MOST Club. Some things could be elaborated more clearly, but the law itself is not so controversial. It's a slow way and the content that we have and it leads us to debates about this law. When we talk about the work of the State Inspectorate, I expect that imports from third countries are more clearly controlled because of scientific research, which shows that precisely because of our non-compliance with EU regulations, we have bigger problems and gaps in the use of certain things that are not allowed on the European market. Secondly, I expect improvement, communication with the public about what I talked to my colleague Maric about, as far as informing citizens. Because abstract chemical names don't mean anything to them. Citizens need to know why this is harmful to them, and it is not yet known enough either the name of the product as the paraben has become a product, i.e. metal or a harmful compound, let alone why it is harmful. Secondly, to separate the notifications relating to consumers, food and items of general use from the general notices concerning the work of the State Inspectorate, so that citizens do not have to go through non-essential documents, to come to those who literally mean their lives. And, of course, if you have 432 million kunas at your disposal you can slightly improve these reports, we do not need tables of the fiscal activities of the state or any other inspectorate, but we need concrete indicators of the situation on the Croatian market. Therefore, all consumer notices summarised within that year where we see which products were problems, in which way the State's inspection reacted. Here I gave you an example of 40% of children's shampoos in which they were illicit or unmarked ingredients, and what is the situation with regard to the previous year? Without this comparative analysis, without the real state of the Croatian market with some floral table views, we cannot have a serious debate on amendments and additions to the law concerning the subject of general application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105084	Thank you. And Mrs. Andreja Maric in front of the SDP Representatives' Club is final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105085	Thank you very much. So in the final summation of all of this, what we've been saying is an indicator of this interest to such an important law is exactly this small number of all of us. Many even do not know fellow MPs who are subject to general use, let alone our fellow citizens. So we are all consumers in Croatia, and it is very important for us all to make the product safe and healthy. It is good that we are a member of the EU, so that in fact the EU is forcing us in some way to amend our laws and adapt them to EU regulations. Often this has already proved in many laws that we have passed, and in fact we do not achieve the full effect of protecting the health of our people. Then no wonder we're not the trust of our citizens right in public government. When we talk about consumers, there was practically a abolished consumer counselling, so a central place where consumers could report their difficulties. The funding is unfortunately questionable, so the consumer associations that remain at our disposal are not actually funded by the ministries, so no wonder we are not trusting our consumers in our institutions. So, according to EU statistics, our government is the last thing about consumer confidence that Croatian citizens have. The consumer empowerment campaign is practically gone. Only 12% of citizens feel that they know their consumer rights well and therefore we are the weakest in the EU. So we can have different laws on the table, but the question is how many citizens know their rights that enables them and provides them in some way, and that is why it is important that all of us, through not only laws and actions and contacts with citizens, strengthen them and motivate them and inform them about what their rights are. This is important in all the conditions, so when we talk about this in particular now, about general use items, in general, on sales, in terms of physical sales, Internet sales, in conditions of war, in terms of imports of products from third countries. I can't help but mention our Eurospeaker Biljana Borzan, who is very much fighting for consumer rights, and thanks to her, a series of research has been made to show that products on our market are less quality than on the Western market. That's what gets here, and then we can react in time, and these results can actually be some kind of input and our citizens to take care of what they buy. As regards the very motivation and education of citizens, I mentioned that it is very important to inform them not only about these inspectorate reports but about the specific list of products to be avoided, to educate them on what is best to use until or to use it. We've touched the questions of ephthalates, so many citizens have no idea where the ephthalates are, they're in bottles, that's not only for children but also for general use by all of us. Ephthalates form the basic component of all plastic packagings, used in cosmetic preparations, in toys, in medical devices, in different packagings, it is also soft plastics. Studies show that they can act carcinogenically, disrupt hormonal balance, damage the lungs, kidneys and liver, etc., and in fact we, in fact our citizens, the average citizens don't know enough about it. How do you avoid ephthalates? So certainly read the declarations and content of the product, be careful with the smell tag on the declaration, buy and use only plastics with recycling codes 1, 2 and 5 because codes 3 and 7 contain ephthalates, try to cross where possible to glass packaging, use only certified natural cosmetics as much as possible, so these are some advice to our consumers. And finally, we certainly hope that the Ministry will accept all these suggestions that we have told them, we would certainly like to see more detailed reports than the State Inspectorate. As for what I was saying about energy drinks for children, I will certainly remind you of how much this was done at the ministry's level in a month, so here's what we're talking about, and we're going to finally support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-22-0.u105086	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met and we move on to a position on behalf of the representatives' clubs and independent representatives, the first is Mrs. Ermina Lecay Splash. She's gone. The second Mr. Davor Dretar, please.
