ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u102862	- Mrs. Crescent. Hope Dreven Budinski will be the position of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u102863	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the assembly, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to congratulate the anniversary of the 4th Guard Brigade, thank you all for defending and defending our country, and especially thank you, thank you very much and eternal glory to all who have given their lives. It can be said that renewable energy sources are becoming increasingly important, and in particular efforts are being made at EU level, so there is a whole range of plans and strategies to make Europe the first climate neutral continent by 2050. As early as 2010, the first strategic plans and the directive adopted were sent, and then until 2030 and long-term until 2050. The above Directives lay down various mechanisms for all Member States to increase the share of renewable energy. Furthermore, the focus is on the circular economy and the European Green Plan to ensure Europe's supply of clean, affordable and secure energy. The development of the renewable energy industry encourages technological innovation and job creation in Europe. The renewable energy sources in the Croatian Energy Act are defined as energy sources that are preserved in nature and are being restored in whole or in part, especially the energy of wind water, not accumulated solar energy, bio diesel, biomass, biogas, geothermal energy, etc., so it can be talked about the kinetic energy of wind, solar energy, geothermal energy, water power, the heat energy of the sea and the potential energy of tides and tides, and sea waves. Regarding Croatian plans in 2020 In line with the European Renewable Energy Directive, Croatia has committed to achieving a 20% share of renewable energy in final gross energy consumption, which is embedded in the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, as has been achieved. Croatia is a net energy importer and a significant part of its energy needs is achieved by importing oil and gas, so Croatia meets 29% of its energy needs by missing EU targets. Due to the war in Ukraine and the imposed situation and sanctions Russia is renewable, but also not renewable energy has received even more attention. Unfortunately, Europe is dependent on gas and oil imports, so Croatia is in an unfavourable situation. Except that fossil fuels are non-renewable energy sources, which means that they are limited by the amount of their combustion is negatively reflected in the environment and is therefore irreversibly polluting it. By pollution from non-renewable energy sources, it only further proves that alternative energy sources prove necessary and require a faster replacement for fossil fuels. Statistics show that the EU imports almost 90% of natural gas, and half of it comes from Russia and 45%, respectively, and only 12.6 is satisfied with its own production. Croatia has drawn close to the situation in which the entire EU is located, but by investing and taking advantage of opportunities of locally available renewable sources Croatia can become more independent of others. For example, with the LNG terminal and its extension Croatia can meet even 100% of its needs. Furthermore, a very large share of even 72% of electricity is generated from renewable sources, which can satisfy the vast majority of their own needs. Increasing the capacity of wind power plants, solar power plants and other sources Croatia is on track to be energy independent, especially due to the current world situation. According to the 2020 statistics. By the share of renewable energy sources in energy consumption with 31%, Croatia was 7th in the EU, while we were 5th in the production of electricity from renewable sources. Thus, it can be said that Croatia has great potential for exploiting renewable sources and can become one of the leading countries in the production of green energy. April 26th is the World Day of Renewable Energy and the importance of renewable energy is seen not only now in the crisis but also in the future, to preserve our planet we have cheaper energy and to increase employment. Here I would still use it to congratulate our candidates who here today were on their parent committees and wish them a lot of success after tomorrow's vote in their work on the pleasure of all the citizens of our beautiful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u102864	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Dalia Oreskovic will be the position of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u102982	Thank you. The political theme is the hearing of new ministers before the relevant parliamentary committees. These are some new people who are alleged to replace former Ministers Coric, Aladrovic and Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic. These are the ones that are currently covered by the announced government reconstruction. Last week, I told the speaker that the first person to leave the government was the minister who entered it, that's Minister Ivan Paladina. The only thing I didn't say last week was, I didn't say, and when I do, I'm gonna give that answer right now, so right now, right now. In contrast to these three ministers who are in reconstruction because Andreja Plenkovic was encouraged to do so by the course of investigation and prosecution, and the fact is that other ministers such as Marija Banozic will find themselves very quickly, and Willi Beroš is not far away, so these are all the people who, through the conduct of their public duties during the term of office, have done some serious suspicious things. Ivan Paladina is still an upgrade. Even before his term of office, he drew tails and major corruption affairs stemming from his business past, and there is indeed a high degree of doubt regarding the fact that he will be able to perform his tasks and conduct his tasks in a legitimate manner. I think such a minister undermines the very foundations of democracy, and if we conclude that he is the one who should leave first and I call on him to resign himself before he finds himself in such discussions at the first next reconstruction and roscha, then we must conclude that he must go along with him and Andrej Plenkovic. But I'm afraid we actually have another problem under our eyes here. So wherever Andrej Plenkovic touches and looks for some of his human corruption puts him in the eye like a pen. And that's the only thing that's permanent and stable for the duration of this summoning HS, which the government chooses, is this constant change and reconstruction. And in order to be consistent with yourself and your political views, in the same way that I did in the last term, so during the 9th term, I said that it was a very corrupt practice, a bang of coin creation, and that's how the 9th symmetry will remain remembered, and so now we have this permanent reconstruction. At the time, I pointed out that it was the responsibility of the president or president of the state to take care of the stable and harmonised functioning of the state government and that it cannot be considered that this stability exists at a time when something fundamentally falls away from the fundamental democratic principles and principles and the same situation we have now. So there is no state authority that can handle this magnitude of reconstruction while at the same time having legitimacy and face in front of citizens and all voters. And what does HS and parliamentary majority do? Shut up cowardly, but shut up and somebody else who has the strongest megaphone in the country to talk about it and say, my people enough. You don't need to pee a pen in the eye of an abstract strong bear there, you should pee on this domestic, you should pee on the president of the government and members of the parliamentary majority to say this to themselves goes beyond even that level of tolerance to the corruption you've shown so far. It's time for an extraordinary parliamentary election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u102983	Thank you. And Mrs. McNally. Marina, Marina Opačak Bilić, who will be the position of the Social Democrats Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u103065	Thank you. Lucky for us, we have an institution to make a point of view. Free speech, so we can talk if we need to talk about time and I'm going to talk about time today, but I'm going to talk about weather and natural disasters that every little bit more and more often, especially in this spring time, cause huge losses not only to our farmers but also cause major damage to housing and cars, and unfortunately we can say that big material damages could have been prevented that the decision-making system did not fail. In fact, in the last 15 years, the system of defense against fighting has been systematically sabotaged. professionally organisational, technical and financial devastation, and for some reason i.e. for all of us unclear and unfounded reasons, our state has decided to put aside the model of the anti-building system so far, and has decided to abolish the model so far without any proposed alternative, which certainly gives the impression of the lack of understanding of the government and the ministry for farmers who remain unprotected and for all other citizens who suffer damage on property. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to this problem and to the approach of this House. Not accessing the Republic of Croatia's defense system against a fight that has been trying for years to end for some unknown reason. In fact, once, anti-urban missiles were often heard from launch lamps fired by competent rockets, and many villages were in fact the only consolation for citizens and farmers to be helped against the higher forces. But as I have already said for years, despite the fact that the fight has caused significant damage, there is absolutely no alternative to putting an end to such an anti - city defense model. Otherwise, the operational defence season starts in early May, so it should start these days and be expected that preparations for this year's season are already in the final phase, but what remains unknown this year and uncertain. It should be said that the Ministry of Agriculture referred to HS at the end of 2020. a draft proposal on the termination of the Law on the Defence of the Fight System and, of course, to stir up the waters among Croatian farmers who signed a petition against such a decision, 1400 of them, and signed by rocketers and other experts who have been defending against fighting for decades. After consulting the interested public on this and, of course, under the pressure of a number of farmers, rocketers, but also citizens who expressed dissatisfaction with such a procedure and who demanded that the defence against the fight remain in office of the Ministry of Agriculture decided that the defence would still be carried out last 2021, but then, after the request for the termination of the law, all missiles were withdrawn, and any other alternative model was not established and the results of such a decision were visible at the very end of last year. What is the situation this season we do not know yet, and unfortunately already last week we had the first indication that we can expect because in Slavonia ice was already, fortunately here was mild and did not bring much more damage, but generally the numbers of reported damages and official data from the register are increasing every year, and the situation from Požega-Slavon County, which was hit by a strong storm last June, followed by heavy ice, is immeasurable, especially if we know that the damage is only in one municipality, so only the Municipality of Jaksic was 50 million kuna. And of course we can ask the question then, isn't this enough reason for the defense not to end but to develop? For years, however, the thesis of how defence against fighting has been abolished by other countries, but data from most European countries are actually being denied, and how the Croatian government likes to call on European directives, laws and research, and if they felt that the anti-urban defence system is not effective, the question is why they did not introduce effective methods such as Austria and Germany, which carry out defences against fighting in certain areas by using planes, but simply decided to abolish the methods so far by justifying themselves that the missiles are expensive because the obvious recovery of damage and destroyed crops and destroyed homes are not expensive. It turns out that the best thing that's worked so far is to just cancel out, destroy and look into the sky and pray for God's ice to be gone. This is what remains for Croatian citizens because the recovery of damage often waits for years as well as for the people affected by the earthquake. I would like to point out that the material damage caused by the fighting in the posjesto region could have prevented the authorities from doing their job, but the Ministry of Finance told citizens to look back at the insurance houses. which, along the way, do not provide risk-free neither culture nor objects. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u103066	Thank you, too. That's what we're done with taking a stand and today's agenda. We continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal of the Law on the issue of covered bonds and public supervision of covered bonds, that's second reading, and the bill is no. 217. We'll vote at 12:00. Thank you until tomorrow. [[The session was interrupted at 13:47 p.m.]] [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 13,00 HOURS]] Here is the presentation of the position of the club of representatives and independent representatives, the first Mr. Nikola Grmoy to present the position of the Club of Representatives of Most, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u103111	Thank you, Vice President. At the beginning of this speech, I would like to congratulate the anniversary of our legendary 4th Guard Brigade of the Spiders, and here I have just been called by my colleague Bulj from the anniversary and I think that this morning, too, this one should somehow recall this important event and mark it at least one of the vice presidents when nothing was organized in the assembly itself. This is one of our most important Guard brigades, and we all know that Homeland War and the foundation of the Croatian state. Today, in this free speech, I will actually talk about the subject that occupied not only these parliamentary committees today but also this debate on amendments to the Penal Code, so where we talked more about the government's own reconstruction and the new ministers, but also about the laws itself, which is logical, because as representatives, we didn't even get a chance to ask a question on committees, there was one speedy pace where the prime minister was half an hour on each board, and so much with high-ranking representatives, and we are aware that his nervousness is due to the fact that the DORH and USKOK are leading investigations against his officials, that what happened was actually decriminalisation of the government, not the reconstruction of the government, has gone to the three government officials against whom investigations are being conducted or being charged with serious crimes means of Aladrovic and Milosevic, who were under investigations of the USK and DORH and the first aid in the case, and in which he was the first aid to the Croatian government in Croatia. And here I am also calling from this place, and I also said to the Committee of the Public and Media to stop talking and write about that Minister Ćorić leaving on his own request, not because he's been pressured by a big affair, he probably didn't just want to agree to leave the government then he's skating in agreements with Plenkovic one very important position, that's the position in the CNB, and that at the moment when both the CNB and the government force us to push the euro into a very difficult economic situation where our economy is not ready for this and where we have therefore one huge price increase, inflation that is present, means the price of energy and we see what happens to fuel prices, the government here in our opinion has not done enough because there was room for the reduction of VAT and for further cost cuts, but also for the definition of prices may be more often than once a week, this should be done, but all of the problems that have been caused by the governments, so the big ones. But it should also be said that this government managed Croatia perhaps at the most favourable economic moment when it could be more favourable to borrow, when there was a time for structural reforms, no structural reform was made, no reform of the judiciary that we talked about today, no public administration reform, more than 4,000 additional people in our public administration have been employed, and at the same time 400 thousand people have left Croatia in the past 10 years. And what is also important here to highlight, therefore, in the context of the overall changes needed in society, the public must know that at this point outside the public's eyes within HS in the premises of clubs specified in HS water negotiations on constitutional changes between HDZ, SDP and others. These constitutional changes would go in the direction of limiting the referendum because these elites are politically shaken by the success of our referendum on which the constitutional court should decide soon. They are in one unembarkable situation because they cannot bring down our constitutional issue, but speaking of these constitutional changes then we need to see what we need to change and we will not allow this SDP and HDZ intention to introduce a censorship to the referendum until we have an unsettled list of voters. This would be another magnificent scam against Croatian voters and Croatian peoples, we will strongly oppose it, so we continue to fight hard against corruption, but also to fight for the freedoms of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u103112	Thank you. Mr. Marijan Pavlic, Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u103290	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, today we had the opportunity to get acquainted with new candidates for future ministers in the government of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, due to the poor compliance of the board that took place almost at the same time, we were unable to attend all committee meetings at the same time and ask questions to future candidates. But we all know, and the sparrows on the border, that this government reconstruction is unfortunately due to corruption. And that this government reconstruction is essentially conducted by the State's Attorney's Office, not by Prime Minister Plenkovic. Unfortunately, that's our reality. Yesterday, however, a statement by Prime Minister Plenkovic went under the radar. Namely, he already mentioned the ministers on their way out and said if they were proved innocent by the end of this term that their doors were open to the government, we'd make something up for them. We'll make something up for them. This is the best indicator of how Croatian society works. You don't even have to be qualified, you don't have to be extra smart, you don't have to be great at your job, it's important that you're decent, we'll make something up for you, and you'll be sitting in the government, not as a minister, but as some state secretary, some counselor, and we'll move on. And that is the defeat of Croatian society. Today, however, Croatia suffered another defeat. Namely, the Resolute Committee on the Constitution confirmed the future i.e. candidate for Prime Minister Anju Simprag's future vice-president with most votes. Anja Šimpraga was remembered here in the Croatian Parliament by a free speech of the heart-saving where she spoke about how she had to leave her native Knin as a girl of only a few years because of the Military Red Action Storm. Everyone was solidarity with her then. Today, however, I asked her two simple questions. The first question was, do you think they are a large part of the insurgent i.e. Serbs in the Croatian Republic in the 1990s open up in an armed rebellion against the Republic of Croatia with the help of JNA? I didn't get the answer to that. The second question is my question, do you think that the military redistribution of the Storm is a legitimate action of the Croatian army to free the occupied area? The answer was embarrassing, and the Storm for Croats and Serbs is not the same. That's what she said. I love myself, and I respect someone else. It's from a person who should be sitting in a vice-president's chair tomorrow. If we live in one country, then we have one official history and one official truth, and the truth is that Storm was a legitimate military redistribution action to free occupied Croatian areas. And the future Deputy Prime Minister cannot have a different view of the Storm. We can talk about whether it was a crime, whether it was this or that, but it can't deny it was military redistribution. Franjo Tudjman is turning in his grave after this statement by the future Deputy Prime Minister. I can't believe you guys are gonna back this up. I really can't believe you're gonna support this tomorrow. What have we allowed ourselves, what has the Croatian society become? We have here a participant of the Homeland War that you will tomorrow raise your hand for a person who not a day today, who was a child during the Homeland War, deny the foundations of the Croatian state with this kind of answer. The only thing she said was that she was going to advocate banning "For Home Ready", and she didn't condemn the posters in Knin, but she told me to condemn them, but they were still posters celebrating the SAO Krajina, a disgrace.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u103398	Mr. Stephen Nikola Bartulica represents the position of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u103399	I thank Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, often in my presentations, saying that Croatia is paying a great price for not spending what other countries of the former communist countries have already spent a long time ago. One of those certain things is that we didn't have a lustration in the '90s. Today we see that the current topics are whether the former refugees will be pardoned and so on for the murders of a time of former communist creation. However, today I will use a particular situation on the island of Brac to try to bring our society and the attitude of politicians towards our people to investors but also generally towards the returnees of the Croats who brought their capital here to make something concrete in our country. While former Prime Minister Oreskovic was headed by the government, I had the opportunity to travel with him and hear firsthand how foreign investors are experiencing us. And I've heard often shortened ABC, ABC for them means Anything But Croatia. And I wanted to see why our country has such a bad reputation in important international circles, where big decisions are made whether to invest in a country or not. And they talked about concrete cases where investors were cheated, where they had legal problems, where there was no transparent business, where they bought something, and later they found out it wasn't their property, etc. So this culture of irresponsibility in us is causing enormous problems and, unfortunately, such a reputation is spreading rapidly. So, ABC Anything But Croatia. In recent days, we have seen a particular case in Supetar, so the mayor Ivana Markovic there is actually running one of his personal accounts with a local investor who owns his own resorts on the island. The other day, while there were some 600 guests in those facilities, they actually crashed the entrance, physically collapsed at 5 a.m. So the media reported this extensively. So we have a situation that at the beginning of the new tourist season we have one calculation of the local power plant with the people who work and who manage the largest resort in the place. Therefore, there is no special need to stress the damage of such conduct. However, I will look back at one of the reasons why individual mayors and other irresponsible politicians, impertinent politicians, can at all engage in such accounts, and this is the law on unclassified roads where this law is, in fact, turned into a means or weapons of some to deal with those who actually run large tourist facilities, and I do not need to stress in particular how important our tourism in total GDP is, so over 25%. So there's violence going on, harassing not only workers, but the particular owner who came back from Texas, so he told me the other day that these people were locally apologizing to him for all that was happening. He spent the entire time making a profitable company out of one loser and didn't take a dividend for himself for a year, but re-invested all the money in that company that works very well and employs up to 600 workers over the summer. So, if we're going to talk about the rights of workers, about the interests of Croatian people, we can't just look at this indifferently, this is one case that goes beyond Brač because it goes further and people will get the impression that property actually means nothing in Croatia. Today, if he chooses revenge for any reason, a local politician or a powerful man can destroy your property. So, the Homeland Movement and I will not personally keep silent about it, we will raise our voice for the rights of our people, especially those Croats who have returned from the world and are trying to create something in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u103400	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Dragana Jeckov will be the position of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u103505	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Assembly, my dear colleagues and colleagues. The drama about enrolment in primary and secondary schools began at the end of 2021. when the ministry presented recommendations to the founders on the optimal number of class departments with the aim of optimising and rationalising vocational education, in the translation of the abolition. I point out this is so-called. The abolition is actually happening in all parts of the Republic of Croatia, but don't mind me saying what I'm going to say in one sphere, in the field of minority education. These recommendations were quickly answered by the Director of the University of Vukovar and suggested that 4 professions in the classrooms where you imagine miracles of teaching take place in the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter with the explanation of the enrollment of any student in any direction are marred by the vision and quality of vocational education, imagine those who listen to me here what kind of vision and quality of the school is infringing if the student wants to enroll in some of the deficiting professions such as butchers, pasteurs or God of waiters in a country where tourism is one of the leading branches of the economy in which, according to some estimates, it will take more than 300 thousand workers in this season, which we will likely bring from abroad. So on the one hand, we lack 300,000 workers of these or related occupations, and on the other hand, we are disabling education for deficiting professions in order to meet the needs of the labour market to some extent. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities where it is clearly prescribed that school institutions with language teaching and a letter of national minorities can be established and that it is even more important to implement for a smaller number of students. The Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities states the same thing. However, I have to stop here and remind myself of some additional facts that individuals have obviously forgotten or deliberately ignored. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia spoke of this very similar matter in its decision from the end of '99. when he abolished the Ministry's guidance that was right on this trail. At that time, it was said that organising a course with at least 10 students for members of national minorities would lead practically not only to a restriction but to a complete shortfall in the rights of members of national minorities to education in language and letter. Today, 22. Later, the ministry accepts the proposal for the structure of enrolment as it is in Vukovar, but as I have said in other parts of the Republic of Croatia, all justice for the need for rationalisation or optimisation. In one hand, I can understand the unilateral and arbitrary conduct of the management of the werewolf school, but at the same time we cannot and must not accept this kind of ministry that deprives members of national minorities of the right to education which, therefore, is designed according to the state of the labour market of education for deficits, so the professions we need. With this pay phone, I invite all the directors who are concerned about this and educational workers who are also concerned with including themselves in a public debate and comment on this subject, and I call on the competent authorities to review these illegal and labour markets unfounded decisions once again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u103506	Thank you. Mrs Katarina Peovic will be the position of the HSS and RF Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u103629	Thank you. Today, the parent committees were held to discuss with potential future ministers. HDZ MPs, MPs were acting scandalously, shouting at us from the bench to repeat the same questions, trying to silence opposition MPs and MPs, being commented by the lady in front of me, and with their replications and their answers, unspeakably praising HDZ candidates. Everything is taking place in a situation where a plenary session is held at the same time, which means MPs and deputies cannot participate, is caused by an extraordinary situation which is actually what we would say is the policy of the government of Andrej Plenkovic. First of all, these MPs are working in an emergency situation, but these new ministers are working in an emergency situation because Andrej Plenkovic himself said it might be just ministers for a certain time because he has already announced that he could return some of the current ministers who left the government. We have received a candidate of potential for the largest ministry, the Ministry of Labour Marin Piletic, who, we could say, compared to other ministerial candidates, Law profiled by the candidate who himself is the country here to praise and laude to Plenkovic himself in the assembly, praised and justified his moves, and we will see how he will now most likely lead the ministry. What ministers will certainly share for a certain time if they are at a certain time, and possibly or possibly will, is the status of workers on a specific basis, and for all 10 newly employed nine of us workers are employed for a certain time. Croatia is today second in Europe to the outstanding work that EUROSTAT defines as working for up to three months with insecure work contracts. We were first in 2018, we were in second place, we were in second place, we were listening again today, and we're going to listen more and more because today was a hearing on Sunday is May 1st Day Work Festival that falls on Sunday, we're going to listen to the laudes of Plenkovic himself about the number of employees, about the increase of salaries, the statistical manipulations we hear from day to day, and how much workers' rights are respected in this country, but we'll have the best chance of seeing on Sunday, is today the Labor Day Day falls on Sunday, so the workers will not only work on Sunday but also work on their holiday. It's a Labor Day, it'll work most often so they don't get paid extra. If they will be paid additionally, they will be paid additionally because the Labour Act determines that overtime can be paid more than what is paid, that means that they can pay one lip and the law is satisfied. Today, we heard from the Minister of Future Chickens most likely that he will not touch the Labour Act, he will not change it. The labour law should be amended, but should be changed in favour of workers, and not as HDZ has changed the last 2 years in secret agreements in which Minister Aladrović participated in where work hours were flexible in such a way that the worker could practically work from home for half a salary, be available to his employer all the time and have the working time defined in the Labour Act by a term that has never existed at all, but here we have new terms means completely at a certain working time. It's the new Labour Act. We don't need such a labour law, but of course we need a new Labour Act, and that's why tomorrow we're going to have a prime minister mean an initiative for the Workers' ZOR tomorrow to announce its 40-odd mandates, an amendment to the Labour Act, 40-odd amendments that are working. From solving this key issue from which I started, which is this famous contract institute at a certain time where we are at the very top of Europe. It means that a contract is limited to one year, which we will propose, not to allow workers to be used and re-employed from year to year, until we propose to cut the week's work. Such proposals will also become a future minister who is likely to sit next week and will be invited to the assembly on Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u103630	Thank you. Mr Marin Lerotić will hold a position on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u103676	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So not only the theme of the day but the theme back months ago, more precisely since Minister Horvat was arrested, has been speculated about who will replace him and who will be the new ministers in this government. So for some time now, we've been talking about who might leave the government, mentioned in some moments and 5-6 ministers who might leave because the prime minister is obviously not satisfied with their contribution until in this two months, the prime minister has given us no concrete information, and it's all been expensive, and we've had one status quo in this country which is bad for both the country and the citizens because time is going and it's a very challenging time where we're going, price growth, inflation, war, energy problems, and we're in suspense because we don't know whether the ministers who are currently going to be ministers will still be and how long they will still be ministers, and in fact, most important we don't know whether they will, if we get new ministers, and we'll obviously get them tomorrow, how long these people will be in their seats. And that uncertainty causes enormous instability, but also inaction, and that means only one further stagnation for the state. At this point, what is certain is that the prime minister will replace the two prime ministers and vice-presidents, and the question is just how long and whether there will be any more changes soon. In view of the trend that has been happening in the government in recent years, we should, unfortunately, not be surprised at all, nor surprised. And it can be seen that this reconstruction of the government that has been announced as a rescue, as a sort of reset, as a refreshment that will give the entire government new strength and power. However, it is obvious that this is nothing but makeup that will bring nothing new, and that in the second half of the mandate we can expect everything in the old and more precise terms we can expect that nothing will essentially change. In addition, the facts go hand in hand, and I'll also give you a few examples that we from IDS have been talking about for many years, and nothing has been done about it. Consider the example of lawless construction, what has been done about it? Absolutely nothing. The problem of the hospital in Izola and the care of Croatian citizens in Istria so that they can get to the hospital as soon as possible, nothing. Putting into function state land, nothing. Reduction of the tax press towards citizens and entrepreneurs, nothing. The medical school in Pula we've been talking about for years, nothing. An abandoned Istrian railroad, nothing. Croatia's tourism strategy, reducing fiscal and parafiscal burdens in tourism, also nothing. Renovate nothing. And so we can count and these five minutes would actually be very little because the fact is that people change in ministerial positions, but in particular and essentially nothing changes. With these changes, we are wasting our time because when replacing the minister, the new ministers should also be given a period of time and a period of adjustment, so the time it takes to catch the ends in the portfolio they have taken over. And so for who knows which time. And this all very clearly indicates that the problem is not 2, 3, 4 or 5, 10 ministers who have been replaced but the whole government that, despite the many billions that we have received as an opportunity to implement serious and essential reforms for our country's development, has no vision, goal and way to change this society for the better. The other thing is that by ruling every other law that they call reform, but they themselves know as well as all of us together that it's all expensive away from reform and that these are mostly just variations on the subject of already existing law. And in the end, we don't know if we're going to talk about any potential change of ministers in this term again because judging by the government's modus operandia, we can't even know that, but what I'm sure our prime minister should know about that wise saying, if you fail to see the solution, that's a sign that you don't see the problem either.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u103677	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106055	Dear colleagues, because your colleague is gone, I welcome you. Before we start working just to let you know that we'll... What? ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] I don't know. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Just to let you know that a total of 166 amendments have been submitted so far, of which 103 during yesterday's debate. The government won't be able to show up on these amendments, so we won't vote on them tomorrow. These are amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education and Final Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science. So we will vote on these amendments or discuss and vote twice. That's it. Today we are starting with: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Procedural Procedure, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 264. The proposer shall be the Government under Article. 85. The Constitution and the Art. 172. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, so I would now ask the representative of the proposings of the respected Justice and Administration Minister Ivan Malenica to present the final proposal for that law, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106056	Thank you, well-respected President HS, esteemed MPs and MPs. You have before you amendments and additions of the CAP to speed up, simplify and modernise the litigation process. These changes are part of the package of changes we are working on to ensure that the Croatian judiciary is effective and that citizens resolve their disputes as soon as possible. The proposed amendments to the law introduce precise deadlines for the completion of the procedure. The first-degree litigation procedure will be completed within 3 years, second-degree appeals courts will decide within a period of less than one year. Small-value disputes will end within a year, and the appeal procedure for these disputes will last up to 6 months. The deadline for holding the preparatory hearing shall be introduced and this preparatory hearing shall be held within 3 months of the date of receipt of the response to the action or the expiry of the time limit for the response to the action. After completion of the preparatory hearing, the main debate will have to be held no later than 6 months. The Supreme Court will take a decision on a proposal for the authorisation of an audit within 6 months of the receipt of the proposal. The Supreme Court will be obliged to adopt a review decision within 2 g. from the date of receipt of the audit. When we talk about disputes of small value, which are also covered by these changes, the procedure in small-value disputes will, as a rule, be written in dispute, and in these proceedings will only be able to be held in extremely prescribed situations, for example if there is a need for a witness hearing or an exercise of sorcery. Small-value disputes are disputes up to 10 thousand kuna, while small-value disputes in commercial proceedings are seen as disputes up to 50 thousand kuna. When we talk about a process calendar, it is introduced into changes to this CAP, so a process management plan is introduced. The judge will define at the first hearing a hodogram of activities in the procedure unless the hearing immediately concludes the previous proceedings, and will hold and conclude the main debate. The plan will include a summary of issues, facts and legal issues, a list of means of evidence to determine the facts in question, a time limit for obtaining the means of proof to be obtained, a deadline for submitting written observations by the parties to the parties to the allegations of the parties, and a date and time for holding the hearing for the main debate. Once the judge defines a plan to manage the debate, he will give the parties the opportunity to read about it. The introduction of a procedural calendar aims to encourage courts to take one proactive approach to resolving each case to list all relevant facts and legal issues at the first hearing, which will continue the process. This calendar will help the parties to see in a transparent way the process course and predictability of further activities. Modifications and additions of the CAP also introduce mandatory tone recording of all hearings. The copy of the tone recording from the hearing is no longer mandatory while the minutes will be kept only on the most important actions taken at the hearing because the contents of the other actions at the hearing will be contained in the tone recording. This significantly shortens the duration of the hearing, especially during party statements, and hearings of witnesses and witches. In addition, the work of the court will become much more transparent and subject to external control. A new institute of surprise decisions is also being introduced in the litigation process. Since the second-degree decision has taken place in previous legal practice on the basis of a different legal assessment of the dispute compared to the first stage, and in cases of alteration, legitimate expectations of the parties are being violated, the parties to the proceedings shall be allowed to make known the legal considerations of the court on the applicable law for the essence of matters. By introducing a new article. 367a. The principle of New Article 4 is more detailed as to how the issue arises when the issue arises before a second-degree court. This provision regulates the issue of surprise decisions in accordance with the current postulates of modern European procedural law. The audit provisions shall also be revised. The audit procedure will always be launched from now on by a proposal to allow an audit independently of the type of dispute. In this way, all parties that have initiated the audit process will know in a timely manner whether there is a basis for reviewing their dispute. The provisions on the review procedure are also redefined since the examination procedures are extremely important for equating case-law, and it is not uncommon for collective rights to be exercised that this procedure can, apart from the party's proposal, be initiated on a proposal from the parties and the interfaces. In order to increase legal protection, the composition of the Supreme Court Council to decide in such a procedure shall also be extended. The amendments and additions of the CAP shall also be subject to more detailed arrangements and maintenance of the remote hearing. Whether a court hearing will be held at a distance decides by a decision against which no appeal is allowed. Before a decision is taken, the court shall obtain an indication of the parties and other participants to participate in the hearing to be held at a distance. All other issues supporting remote maintenance such as the use of audiovisual devices, the technology platform for long-distance communication will be prescribed by the Regulation. The concept of illegal evidence is also introduced in such a way that it is prescribed that the judicial decision cannot be based on unlawful evidence or evidence obtained in an unlawful manner by applying the proportionality test in their assessment. It also extends the circle or extends the circle of e-Communication taxpayers, the mandatory e-Communications actors become union workers, or the Employers' Association as attorneys when representing workers or employers, then the Commissioners in the process of bankruptcy of consumers, liquidators, special guardians in family matters and natural persons performing registered activities in disputes concerning these activities. Respected MPs and representatives of this proposed amendment to the Law on the Procedural Procedure are certainly a step forward in strengthening citizens' trust in the judiciary because by adopting them, we will allow citizens to have faster digitalised procedures, which will ultimately reflect the efficiency and efficiency of the judiciary itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106057	Thank you, Minister. A colleague named Kujundzic will be replicated first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106058	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister. Therefore, speeding up and shortening court proceedings is the urgency of this, and the law that goes beyond this, but the question remains whether or not we will actually achieve this if we have two facts in mind, and the first of them is that the court proceedings are largely defined and burdened, for example, by proceedings for damages whose fees are defined by the very rules of the Supreme Court and where, therefore, the priorities of the mentioned case are known in advance, and on the other hand, the cases relating to the determination of the right of ownership. These changes aren't covered by what you plan to do about it because judging by the field, these two things are actually the ones that led to the greatest situation that the judiciary is stifled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106059	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106060	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So yearly or during 2021. A million and 336 thousand cases were received in Croatian courts, in fact 158,000 cases more than 2020. When we look at the number of cases solved, Croatian courts settled in 2021. 98,000 items more. So we are aware that there are a large number of cases, that we are at the very top of the EU countries by the number of cases per 100,000 inhabitants. These amendments to the Law on litigation and the Code on Criminal Procedure, which follows this, go in this direction first to speed up the litigation and criminal proceedings, make it more efficient, more modern, which will ultimately reflect an increase in the number of cases resolved. I agree that there are certain specific procedures that are stifling the courts, but by the end of the year we are expected to be and the Law on Peace and the Act on Exparation Procedure through which we will try to relieve the courts and reduce the number of cases exactly as you mention in the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106061	Thank you. My colleagues, Oreshkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106062	Thank you. Your Honor, I would like you to answer very clearly to the question to which extent did you include the judges themselves when making these amendments and the additions, which judges and how many judges were they who would apply these procedural provisions involved in creating their content? And the second question is, most laws kind of focus on the use of new information tools of tone shots and other innovations that I support, but I'm curious about how much you have ensured their feasibility in practice and I'm curious about the quality of the trial most important that we have a uniform court practice, what have you done to establish publicly available, so citizens have easily available a transparent database of judicial decisions that is searched by key categories? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106063	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106064	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Therefore, when we talk about the involvement of judicial officials or judges and state lawyers, all working groups that are held in the Ministry of Justice and the administrations to amend certain rules are always involved representatives of the judicial authority. In particular, if we are talking about the Law on the litigation of a member of the working group was Judge Katic, so the Supreme Court judge, but besides him there were also judges of the lower courts, were also representatives of the State's Attorney's Office. So, these amendments that we have today, the Law on the Procedural Procedure, we are primarily working for an effective and more effective judiciary. The judiciary depends on state lawyers, the judiciary depends on judges who apply the rules and are involved in all activities. There is, of course, a dialogue with the Association of Croatian Judges. As far as other matters are concerned, the National Justice Development Plan is worth a billion and 800 million kuna, so after this law has been passed the rules go, and certain means of recording will be invested, of course. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106065	Thank you very much. Come on in, pals. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106066	Thank you very much. Dear Minister. Here's the first time we've heard about speeding up procedures and increasing the efficiency of the judiciary, and we are now, of course, introducing these deadlines both for holding the preparatory hearing and for the main debate. I hope so, and I believe it will be effective this time, but the main question remains what about all the cases so far? You yourself said that there are too many cases, that we are at the top of Europe in general how many objects we have. But the question is, you said that the court's hearing is a matter of distance, and there's no right to appeal against it. What will happen in cases of a little older citizen or those who may not be electronically close to technology and similar cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106067	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106068	Thank you very much, Your Honor. When we talk about the application of new technology, especially here's a remote hearing that institute has been introduced into the litigation process since 2019. And not knowing in fact that we're going to have a situation with the covida-19 panedemia where we could use that institute. And that's actually what happened that we didn't predict, but we made it possible for the pandemic to also be used by that institute of remote hearings and that the judicial authorities could work uninterruptedly, as can finally be seen in the number of cases that were received and solved in these pandemic years. We are now, through changes to the CAP, more specifically prescribing the institution's remote hearings itself, but certainly the Institute of remote hearings should take into the context of the right to access the court, so that there are simply procedures in which the parties have their own representatives, in which representatives are e-communication bonds where the actually remote hearing can be held and without access to the party itself. Where we can't do that, we'll get those judges to actually make this one a party's approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106069	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you Minister, you can return to your seat. Now, after I open the debate, the first one will speak on behalf of Representatives' Club Mosta, a respected colleague, Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106070	Thank you, Mr. Bukarica, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Mr. Salapic, and three colleagues and colleagues, four, five MPs. So what I would agree with in your presentation is that the chronic problem of the Croatian judiciary is definitely not judges. If we take our Croatia and compete with current Finland in the previous days we will see that one judge in Croatia solves about 300 cases at year level, while in Finland one judge solves 66 cases at year level. Also, 60 judges in the second-degree court plus 60 advisers in Finland solve some 4 thousand cases at year level while in Croatia, in particular at the County Court in Zagreb 40 judges solve the amazing 16 thousand cases annually. So we can agree that the key to the problem of the Croatian judiciary is mainly here if we are talking about the civil department and the ZPP are definitely not judges in the first place. What I'm going to talk about, and you've given me a partial answer, is that in the next package of laws, you will eliminate everything that proves to be actually a cancer of the Croatian judiciary. In my replica, I asked you therefore or mentioned two things, I know that the Municipal Court in Makarska is overcrowded, overcrowded with cases, so from the domain of ownership, which can be very easy to resolve, therefore, by transferring certain powers to a state attorney who will, on the spot, pass a certain verdict in favour of a particular party whose sides are all relevant facts, and then all such actions will be removed from the Croatian judiciary. What is also a huge problem when we talk about the overcrowding of Croatian courts where certain objects are extremely important and extremely important for the life of each of us can't come to order are actually litigation from damages compensation, painful neck injuries, now I wouldn't go into the machinations that the insurance houses are doing, thus showing certain amounts as operating costs etc., etc.. If a priority is known to the outcome of a particular case, there is no need to convene several hearings, court experts, all of this is paid neatly, and the cases that really need to be solved stand elsewhere. I believe it will all be an integral part of that package you're talking about. What I would really turn my back on today, here's my speech is about the FPP directly, and in these changes it's not mentioned, and that's the problem of delivery, which, in practice, is where various lawyers are still standing in drawers from 2013 and 2014, so I don't want to be either populist here, or here I want to be someone who throws wood and stones at anyone, I want to talk about what's the fact, and the fact is that in drawers still from 2013 and 2014 so I want to be someone who shoots wood and stones at anyone because of the problem of delivery. If we live and live in a time of digitisation, if Europe and the European directives have forced us to go to these, it seems to me that the ninth changes are unclear to me for which reason our mailman should still carry home invitations, so he doesn't find him at home, so bring them back, so someone doesn't want to receive them, if we have a very simple situation. My late grandmother had her cell phone device she knew how to write a message and send a message. Is it a problem to make one unique register of mobile devices that someone will get a call on, that's one of the models that comes to mind? And we're not going to get into a situation where someone hasn't received, that someone's returned a certain call, etc. And so on and so forth. Is it a problem to make a certain user box, so by e-invite send someone a call and be aware that we have done so on the legislative side and by the court all the things we needed, so we are fucking alive whether someone has read it or not. Therefore, the basic and only model in order to speed up the litigation process is the solution to the delivery problem, in order to facilitate the personal delivery process itself in litigation procedures, and the model to protect possible abuses of the front system, which is undeniable and easy to resolve through the institute of repetition of the procedure that the Institute as an extraordinary legal medicine works in quality and in the current arrangement. The very proposal for this law states in its assessments everything that I have mentioned digitisation, and then on the other hand, we do not offer these changes to the solution in accordance with this digitisation. If we are also talking about the introduction of sound recording and the limitation of the duration of certain procedures and others, I would dare say the wetlands of the European directives, I'm afraid they'll be shooting at nothing, and I'll explain to you why, God forbid I'm wrong. To imagine a judge who is in the category of someone who is not a worker, and there are such people everywhere, there are such ones in the house when it is necessary to clean the table, there are those everywhere we turn in each system, but if we take an example of such, one of them will easily compensate and bypass this way of recording the procedures themselves and limiting the duration of the period in a way that the wolf is full and sheep. I'm telling you this if you have space, and I'm sure it's your profession, so you'll do much better to compose one of the rulings into a certain form of amendment so that this kind of ZPP is better if we listen to those who meet each other every day. So, to return to that case, the above example. So, for example, Is it any of the legislators that comes to mind that a judge who doesn't do anything meets a famous standard without any trouble? So, to do nothing will fill out its court quota despite the fact that we will have a recording and that we will have a limited duration of the proceedings. How? So he is reluctant to provoke the participants in the process in quotes because it is the brother’s duration, and someone needs to be resolved in order to solve certain other matters by solving a man in his life. So, by provoking the participants in the procedure, mostly the prosecutor, because he needs to complete the proceedings, the prosecutor can withdraw the lawsuit and file another which he has the right to beg God not to assign the computer to him, to assign the computer to someone else, and not to the same one again. And if it works great, if it doesn't, he's withdrawing the lawsuit again and again the same procedure. And the non-worker's judge for such withdrawal under the applicable rules for each withdrawal of the suit will be honored with a certain point effect and eventually more than three of his three withdrawals in cases in which he has not moved his fingers bring more points than one resolved case of a judge who had to conduct hearings, eyewitnesses, to listen to witnesses. And it's like when a non-worker comes to a smaller place in a voice like that, then everyone's pulling charges as soon as the system assigns them to that judge and buying a man points like he's the biggest worker in this system. We'll agree that it's total absurd. And we'll agree that for these, you'll definitely need a certain control mechanism. All of this, and I hope that there will be opportunities in the individual, so I wouldn't want anyone to understand me, despite the fact that it's the easiest tree and stone and sass, the goal of all of this here and all of us here is to try to make the situation better. On that trail and in that sense I would beg, and you know better than me, that these certain things if they are correct, incorporate. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106071	Minister Malenica has now returned, has the right to have five minutes of exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106072	Thank you very much. Well, here's the esteemed president and the esteemed representative, it's hard to explain everything the Justice and Administration Department is doing in response to the replica. However, here in your presentation you pointed out some things that require certain reactions. First of all, the issue of judicial delivery, therefore you have well noted that these amendments to the Law on the Procedural Procedure are not covered by the issue of delivery for the reason that a working group is currently formed at the Ministry of Justice and Administration, which is actively working on the adoption of a single regulation that will regulate judicial delivery. So now we have litigation, criminal proceedings, and certain actions that each of us handles the issue of court delivery. So now we're going to pass a single law that will arrange court delivery. It will be called the Law on Court Delivery, and it will therefore integrate into itself all these processes and modernization or digitisation of the delivery process. So there is also the development of the e-delivery project together with the Croatian Post Office where we will have a digital delivery and digital return. You pointed out this section relating to the system of e-Citizens whether there is a possibility that if we already have an application or a platform of e-communication where citizens can apply, they can get judicial, judicial writing into the user's mailbox of the e-Citizen system. As far as other matters are concerned, I would also point out what is important in the Law on Parley Procedure or Amendments, these are small-value disputes, which are generally now written, that will certainly relieve the courts or shorten the proceedings themselves, but I would also point out the Law on Peace that we are planning by the end of the year and the Act on Extraparnical Procedure, which has not been passed since 1934. And in fact, through the rest institute that didn't live the way the legislator wanted when he passed that law, we'll try to solve certain proceedings before coming to court. And also through the Act of Extraparnical Procedure, so part of the procedures to modernise and resolve them in a much more efficient and efficient way. Also when you mentioned norms, framework standards and what we actually did at the end of the last year, last year, where we brought new framework criteria that are certainly going to lead to judges or at the end of the year having more resolved cases than we have in recent years, that actually judges solve more cases annually or to monitor their execution. So far, compliance with the norm was 80% of the norm, but new framework criteria will therefore also include the Law on Prosecution, so judges will have to meet 100% of the norms in order to make 100% of the framework criteria in order to be considered to be fulfilled. Since last year, we have also implemented action plans, so the Action Plan for an effective judiciary where we monitor each court at a quarterly level, follow each judge and in a quarterly conversation with all the presidents of the courts individually, where we actually point to certain problems that we see through the system e-Subscribed, so digitisation has made it possible for the system to monitor the efficiency and effectiveness of each court and each judge and that through this system we can influence that individual courts or individual judges are effective and that they meet framework criteria. As for other activities, then, I would also point out the Law on Land Books that speeded up should come here to a assembly that certainly goes towards speeding up the procedures related to land books, especially land book renewal procedures. So the area of land books is very important to us both for entrepreneurial activity and for everything else, so it is also one of the important and important laws and regulations that we are preparing. And when you look at the legislative plan in 2022. where there are about 50 regulations, the 50 laws that will come here in HS, something in the second reading, something smaller is in line for the EU, so you can see that some kind of mosaic that we agree on through changes to these laws. I can agree in a certain part and say that it is not a good hyper normisation, but when you see some problems in practice you have to solve them and actually through changes to these laws, but also through the NPOO and the Multi-annual Financial Framework that is being prepared. So we have good grounds for the judiciary in the future to be effective, effective and to restore the slow trust of citizens in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106073	You have two replicas of the minister. The first one is a colleague of Oreshkovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106074	Thank you. The Honorable Ministers. I think that in every regulation, the quality of the provision depends on their involvement in the creation of those who know most about some matter, so that's how this particular law applies. When I asked you who the representatives of the judicial authority were, it is clear to me that you in the working group invited the presidents of the courts both here and there, but I am interested in how much you expanded the base, how much effort you made to get from the 1700s and some of the judges that Croatia has as many of them as possible about what is really going on in the courts. So, what I'm afraid of is that in principle I don't object to these technical improvements and the use of IT tools, how much of this moment is there the readiness of our judges, so that will do so in the best possible faith and the will to really stick to what's written here? Did you even ask them? How should norms and regulations read? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106075	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106076	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, you know that the working group has a limited number of members, so I can then provide you with who except Judge Katic were members, and they were members of the county court and judges of the municipal court, so we covered all the levels of the judiciary. There is an institute of public consultation, I assume you have looked at the comments at the public consultation where a very large number of judges appeared, the president of the courts and other stakeholders in that judiciary and the Association of Croatian Judges. We also have a conversation next week with the Association of Croatian Judges who we hold as a partner in this. I mean, the judges are important and important to us because without them, we can't implement any regulations, so we agree that there's some kind of dialogue, a good dialogue as far as I'm concerned, because tomorrow it all depends on how the judges apply. So they are included and through public consultation, we have taken into account some of their proposals and, of course, between the two readings we will continue to discuss, specifically here on Thursday with the Association of Croatian Judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106077	Second replica of fellow Sacic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106078	Dear Minister. It is certainly very important that a provision in the transitional content relating to the application of existing or proposed legal solutions to the existing state of civil litigation in civil trade disputes is also important, and that you have put a certain provision in place that everything that is older or older by 2013 that will improve in certain respects, that is very good. This should be well-determined because it can come to really big forests, for example I personally had the opportunity a few days ago of the vehicle book was abolished in 2013, but by chance I lost it somewhere in 2008 and now I had to waste time, space to get confirmation from the MUP that I lost something that wasn't worth it at all. It's crazy stuff, it's terror red tape.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106079	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106080	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Therefore, the Law on the Procedural Procedure is one of the two most important procedural laws in the Republic of Croatia and are certainly the transitional and final provisions regarding these amendments and the additions are extremely important and important because of the large number of litigation procedures currently being conducted in Croatian courts and therefore we have taken a serious consideration of how we will regulate transitional and final provisions. I personally believe that we have done them very well and very well, so the current regulation applies until the end of the process except for the revision itself. But of course, we now have time between two readings, of course, and after these amendments are in force and the addition of the Law on Procedural Procedure here we will certainly go after it to be the Judicial Academy that prepares judges to apply this regulation as best as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106081	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on with the debate now, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Oreskovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106082	Thank you, Chairman. It is really motivated to talk about how we are going to improve our judiciary, which is looming under the burden of strong mistrust of citizens when there are only five parliamentary deputies in the assembly. So much for that and for all of us. As far as the law itself is concerned, it is simply a technical regulation, technically which does not in any way penetrate the architecture of the judiciary, and we, if we want to move forward if we want to improve, should then be hacked into that particular architecture. These are the essential reforms and changes from which this government flees like a cat or an environment around them as a cat around a hot porridge. When I say architecture, and when I talk about what may be three key measures, the three key steps that should be taken is to establish stronger control over the work of the judges themselves. These controls today are de facto gone, so the first thing the state should deal with is the DSV structure. It is today a body consisting of 11 members, including two parliamentary representatives, we also have people from the academic community, but none of them performs these jobs in terms of professional and permanent engagement and therefore we have situations that check property cards are a mere form, and at the very level of the law that defines what this check actually contains is about checking the form, not the essence and choice of how the property is obtained. I think that the new DSV Act is also in preparation somewhere, but again it does not penetrate anything essential, so we need DSV which was formed as one permanent institution as we did in 2011 to change the Commission's decision on conflict of interest, which by 2011 was an ad hoc body to a professional permanent state-owned institution. That's what should be done with both the DSV and the membership members to remove those who do not belong there, which are primarily parliamentary representatives. The MPs cannot, because they do not have the necessary specific knowledge, cannot verify the property cards of judges and cannot decide on their strict responsibility, nor should they interfere with the selection, appointment, promotion and shift procedures, so this is the first foundation and the first pillar. And the second pillar is control of the transparency of the court decisions itself, and I don't mean the control carried out by a higher instance, I mean the control carried out by the citizens themselves because with due respect for the proposed changes that I think some of them have good potential, but they're simply accepting the century in which we live. These digital tools that we are now introducing in the process itself and in the trial process are not something that fundamentally changes the quality of court decisions. It's like saying that if you introduce computers and tablets into schools and into the education process that will change the quality of the class itself. No, the class and the quality of what the teacher conveys to the students depends on the quality of the teacher. Thus, the quality of the court decision will depend primarily on the quality of the judge himself, on the quality of the material rules under which the judge judges and everything else is merely auxiliary technical means. Now what we're about to do here is, let's say, technically, on a good path, there's a key missing. So, there's an old, old saying that justice is worth not only if it's done and implemented but it has to be visible that it's enforceable and there's this element of our citizens' mistrust because they have an impression that unfortunately is very often and that in the same situations at the level of different courts, they make diametrically opposite decisions and we haven't been able to solve this problem through appeal procedures, and even at the level of audits, and we've had situations that different county courts have made quite the opposite decisions very often. We have a lot of information about this through reports from the judicial authorities, or through reports from the Supreme Court President. In order to solve this problem, it is important to introduce transparency of court decisions in a way that enables judges to control them themselves. The reliability of the trial will also reduce the number of court proceedings that are being opened and initiated because everyone else will be able to conclude rationally what awaits him in the court proceedings, and that is the result of the damages. If someone knows whether his claim is warranted, if he knows that he can get about 30 to 50 thousand kuna, then he himself will assess whether he is being tried at all, paid by lawyers, or reached for some settlement procedure in which someone will stick to these frameworks and parameters publicly available through such a database. So, I don't know how many times we've been behind this pay phone, and even by the government's representatives, we've heard the word digitization. The entire Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Croatia, the NPOO, which you want the Strategic Document contains this famous word of digitisation, and in none of the key processes, we have not established, for example, a publicly available register of state property, we have not established a publicly available register of all business relations concluded with public authorities, and if we are talking about this concrete law, what is missing is a clear plan and a clear hodogram of the implementation of the database of judicial, judicial decisions. That database is going to be a team, a team more important now that we're introducing, and I'm going to say some of these really new things that way through the tone recording of court hearings. How do we control the processes? In tone shots, one will write one thing, and someone who listens, for example, to the testimony of witnesses or warlocks based on listening to the video will get an impression, and in the record it will write something perhaps quite different, not necessarily incorrect, but sufficiently short, sufficiently mutilated to leave one entirely, quite different impression. And what will be written in the court's ruling will be seen. And how much this court decision will contribute to the fact that we can control whether, for example, the court in Split, Dubrovnik and Osijek had the same criteria and standards in a typical case. And for the end of the third pillar that I think would take a big step in some balance of power within the system itself is a question of who controls the system of the e-record. It seems to me that the President of the Supreme Court, when he explained his programme here in the Croatian Parliament, was right when he said it was not quite appropriate for the system of the e-scription to run the FINA. He is nominally the owner of the Justice Department program, but this is also a very powerful tool in which the executive authority holds the keys, and it is an important, important control key over the judicial authority. Let us leave the system of e-recording to the judges themselves, introduce new modes to make it easier for judges to examine court practice themselves, but at the same time that they can make their comments in that system when they directly notice in some regulation how it works in practice. And finally let's start to respect what the judges themselves have to say about any regulation. We often pollute the judiciary, and those to whom it all applies are at least asked in practice. It is not the same to be the president of a court or to be an ordinary judge who is engrossed in his writings and days and nights in his courtroom, and believe it or not, there are such judges. You won't find such judges in the media, you won't find them on TV shows, you won't find them on coffees with high-ranking HDZ officials, and just those judges would have the most to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106083	Now, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, a respected colleague, Romana Nikolic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106084	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Dear Ministers and State Secretarys, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Law on Criminal Procedure in the last few amendments has been amended with the aim of overcoming the perceived problems in its application and in order to make civil legal protection more effective, especially for the functioning, acceleration and reduction of the costs of the litigation process more effectively. Both these amendments and additions aim to further improve civil legal protection and comply with EU rules. Faced with the exceptional circumstances caused by the crisis caused by the Covid pandemic and the change of circumstances and the way the whole world had to adapt to the new circumstances becomes an imperative of the digitalisation of the judiciary with the aim of ensuring an effective litigation procedure. The digitisation of the procedure will reduce the number of pending cases in courts in the Republic of Croatia, but possible traps should also be foreseen through individual digital practices that may lead to infringement of the right to a fair procedure. Furthermore, despite the legislator's efforts to speed up court proceedings, it is doubtful how much longer it will take to achieve that goal. Namely, it is necessary to leave the paper form of the court files and to introduce deadlines for judges, all of which requires adjustment and time. Through the introduction of a tone recording debate in a litigation procedure, such a solution would need to be fully equipped with courts at all levels, but also to allow parties to be able to use those recordings. It should be pointed out that all of this requires additional funds and the preparation of judges, lawyers and parties. When holding a remote hearing, as proposed by these amendments and additions, it is necessary to take into account that all parties do not have technical opportunities to participate in the debate at a distance or must ensure that all parties have equal access to the court. The novelty that we can welcome, which the legislator states is also the objective of amending and supplementing the CAP, is to update the litigation process as a whole, which is to look at and prevent the decisions of surprises or decisions changed by appeal on the basis of a new legal assessment of the dispute which is significantly different from the legal assessment discussed in the procedure and which the conscientious and caring party could not reasonably foresee. Finally, although the intention and objective of these amendments and the addition of the CAP is to speed up court proceedings since a whole series of additional and preparatory adjustments are necessary, this acceleration will certainly not take place for the next 5 or more years. In addition, since the original law already has a number of amendments and additions, and taking into account the report of the Legislative Committee in which the whole set of objections to this bill is, in the interests of legal certainty, the Social Democrats Club considers it necessary to access the new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106085	Now on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the respected colleague, Željko Sacic, will speak on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106086	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, ministers, state secretaries, Croatian public, we as the Club of Croatian Sovereignists have repeatedly pointed out the need to do everything in our power especially in this assembly to reform the Croatian judiciary, to take certain measures primarily on material technical modernisation, personnel teaming, on everything offered by modern techniques, methods for the best, the more effective and the faster the trial because only rapid justice is good effective justice. Of course justified, checked at all instances. This step you have now made with this proposal to encourage the European Parliament and the Council, especially after this terrible year of earthquake, where money from this support programme has been provided by the EU is possible at the last minute and financial resources are now provided not only to patch up the roofs so that the courts do not sneer, the courts, to complete equipment, technical issues, information but to digitise, to actually enable us at a modern civilization level in terms of how this modern time brings and how we all expect it to be. And that's how this process, all of these great frustrations about hundreds of thousands of objects that we've had piled up over the past few years after this solution, will certainly speed up and we'll start from a dead end. And that is commendable, it is to praise, especially, the task force that has dealt with these proposals for a new law on litigation, these are terribly complex legal issues, these are very complicated procedures that need to be tackled by the greatest experts. I have no doubt that you hired them, of course I welcome the idea of my colleague Dalia Oreshkovic, who says that even more should be included in the whole system. But already the very fact that you have determined mandatory communication by electronic means, by e-mail for state bodies, state attorney's office, police, court experts, etc. The whole series of taxed already is the revolution, it's at the level of that time when from some long time ago the former state of Yugoslavia started writing the minutes by hand on a machine, a typewriter or a typewriter 30, 40, 50 years ago in a computer way. This is a good approach today, you've put an e-Advertising here, and that's one way to solve the frustrations of our people, to speed up the procedures that our colleague Ante was talking about, all you've suggested is an absolute step in relation to the current situation. We can now be theorised by looking across the border of the Republic of Croatia whether there is anything better in Italy, Germany, Switzerland, America, but here in the area affected by the resection of Roman law, with hundreds of years of process, you have put even in one litigation process the elements of the proactive action of the courts, even in that part you went to that institute that the court and independently of the parties in the case may take certain measures, for example, to complete the procedure if they do not come to this final debate in the main debate at the final hearing if there are conditions. So I think in any case it's good, we'll support it, our public will support it and you'll see certainly great moves in the quality of the trial. Unfortunately, I myself have had several processes in recent years because of various slanders, etc., private lawsuits, so I have personally seen how this and where it can be misused, how this process can be stalled. Now that I'm looking at these rules that are available to judges, it's going to be a spaceship, it's going to be a new approach. For the first time in the GPP, or in the Law on the Procedural Procedure, you put this instructional one that looks even more like a pre-inclusive deadline for proceedings in which litigation proceedings must end, especially in the first degree, in the second degree in the Supreme Court of Audit, these are all extremely good solutions. And you even referred to the positive effects of these deadlines in working disputes. So that's already proven to be possible. Of course, it's all good and in the end I'd say just don't feel sorry for millions. Here you have said 68 million and 700 thousand kuna that for a litigation procedure should be organised in all courts that information, digitization, that we can say on one side is big and not big money, but given the effect it is negligible. However, later on, when we're going to talk about the Criminal Procedure Act, I'm not that optimistic and I'm not that happy because there's less money you've secured and you've left space. There is no reason to provide only 15 million kuna for the modernisation of our courts in criminal proceedings, and even open the space that some proceedings will not be able to do so, but in the future you will only put in place one declarative provision that other courts will approach modernisation in criminal proceedings when conditions are obtained. I'm not happy with that, but we'll do it in a second wheel. Anyway, I wish you success, and it's very good. You can also see that you are taking care of other elements because you have all the rules, there are several places you have determined that with the rules you will further explain, do and give instructions to the courts, reduce to the adoption of that 60-day deadline, that's good. I can only grab my head when I remember how various ministers, say the secretary of defense, civil war victims laws, defenders, ma 6 months, please give yourself a nice time, 6 months to postpone it means the law we've passed here takes six months to put it in full application, so it's out of your mind. I'm glad you took care of it, you just said it for 60 days, you've done it before. Do it before. Thank you, good luck.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106087	Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Focus and Independent Representatives, the Honored counterpart Zurovec will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106088	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ministers, respected MPs and MPs, I'd basically tie these practically two laws here. So the one who's in the debate right now, and the one who's gonna come back later. So the first thing that falls into the eyes is that most of the observations were made through a public debate that was generally not accepted. And in general, looking at this very system of public consultation is already becoming a serious problem, and I am really interested in whether this public debate is really an instrument we want to serve or have it just for the sake of order. That's what I'm saying most because, as far as I can tell, the judges, the lawyers, the chambers, the office of the occupier, the judicial association, that's what I'm saying. persons whose law is primarily about the litigation process of the tool that is used daily and who know all its advantages and faults. Most of the remarks are mostly concrete, objective, but not only not adopted but my impression is that it wasn't even thought about it. Anyway, as far as the public can see, it focuses most on the tone recording of the debates. However, this should definitely be welcomed, but this revolutionary change has also been accompanied by automatic changes in all the usual actions in the litigation process. I have the impression that no one took care not only of the technical possibilities of the courts but also of others who would have to adapt to these novelties. That's where I primarily think about public notebooks. Those in the Republic of Croatia are mostly conducting desert procedures. Leaven procedures are out-of-party, which is true, but they are subject to the Law of Parley Procedure, so it will also have to have equipment for tonic recording. The system itself does not normally work properly, there is no possibility of uploading larger files which I consider to be a technical failure, and sometimes it is under maintenance so it cannot be accessed or collapsed at all because more people are accessing at the same time. I think it's a serious technical failure that needs to be resolved as soon as possible. The mandatory content of the court minutes is also no longer the same. So it's only basic, and no emergency situations are foreseen anywhere, a guy that if we run out of power, what if we're going to lose the Internet, what if we have now, as we've seen lately, hacker attacks, which is the security of that system itself. If the notes are in tone, and the party has to file a legal remedy in a certain way, let's say the complaint and can't then access exactly for the reasons mentioned above, what will happen then, what will we do. It is not even specified in which format it will store, so the question is whether it will be any commercial and all available program or something else. At the same time, not only the court but all parties will also have to have equipment to store, but also to listen to these videos, which if someone does not have how they will be able to access the contents of their case which will no longer be in writing. It is also important to point out that, according to the new natural persons carrying out their registered activity, they become mandatory participants in electronic communication. This includes primarily craftsmen. Unfortunately, today the craftsmen are more mature and a large part of them may be smaller, come on, God is a little weaker with technique, and he mostly does not serve it. With these provisions, I think they will also be significantly difficult, and in practice, perhaps impossible access to court. It is hard to expect that a slightly more experienced and older craftsman will check his electronic box daily, and it is even harder for a pensioner to listen to the tone of the court hearing on his computer. I ask you what when the public is excluded from the debate for example for the protection of minors, then what do we do? Are we going to prescribe that tonnes obtained or which are allowed to be accessed as parties to the procedure should only be listened to with headphones so that others do not hear them precisely because of the protection of a minor. We're also going to make sure those headphones are put on so others don't hear if we listen to it, for example, in the cafe. What if it gets out in public? What about those video discussions, can I say, share in public through the media? These are some serious failures, and I have to end up here with a different, different aspect. Although it may not have been so much to do with this law, we could see that this one indetermination and inequality of judicial practice and legal disorder that refutes investors create one systematic injustice that eventually leads people to leave Croatia. The laws must be clear. They must be universally applicable. They must be the fruit of a wider debate. It can't be a public debate just a reform, experts have to ask. If he only had the designs I'm really wondering why spend it for anything at all. Then we can shut it down automatically. I would also draw a little attention to that famous government rule on service areas, and there was also no respect for the opinion of the profession, nor the opinion of the people who, for example, are dealing with it, but it was all done in a completely insane way. And if you are not already reading the advice in the public counselling process, here is a comfortable advice. Croatia is ultimately nobody's private property, it's not mine, it's nothing, but the Croatian people should be involved and, of course, our experts in the debate on all important issues. And as for some other things, especially with regard to government procedures if people are excluded, experts are excluded, so we really can't expect to have some good results and good laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106089	He will now speak for SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected counterpart, Michel Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106090	Honorable ministers with the secretary of state, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, above all a good day, a lovely greeting to all. On behalf of the SDP Club at the very beginning, I must say that we welcome the efforts that are being made to change the CAP, but also through the debate and amendments we would like to make even more precise decisions and process that after that we can all say together as HS that we have made changes to the CAP behind which we are ready to stand by all independently gave ruling or opposition and thus send perhaps a strong message to Croatian citizens, Croatian economy, and also potential investors about that there is a line of parliamentary representatives who are willing to accept the problems we have in our judiciary, problems with perception and with citizens and economies and together make certain decisions that we can find together that we can change things for the better. What I would like to point out is that so far we have had more than 15 amendments and additions to the CAP and these changes that are still ahead of us are 111 articles, so we have again after all these changes and one major change and what, of course, each of us can ask ourselves as a question of whether we have both these amendments and all these attempts that we can claim to have caused them a bit of fruit and themselves through this home made confusion in our litigation and, of course, in an important part of our judiciary. Because I think we all agree that so many changes in the 30s. independence is not something that is very normal, and we see that the result at the end of the day has never received what citizens expected of us faster, fairer trial and more effective decision-making because that way we would not have had so many questions about where justice went and we would not have so many cases that either never came to an end or ended up out of date and that I am not now listing all those changes that we had and problems. What we would certainly like to do through this debate and through future discussions is to define more clearly on the one hand the praise that we are going in the direction of digitisation and that we want to introduce mandatory tone recording, but we are asking a question that has already been dragged several times on the board today and in this parliamentary debate whether we are not bringing the defendant into a much more difficult position and all those who will not be able to cope with these changes because on the one hand we have a state apparatus that is expected to do the task, on the other hand we could have people who are not informational writing, who may not have lawyers, and the question is which way they will be able to protect their interests. The second sub-question that opens there, although we believe that through NPOO we have provided enough resources for the reform of the Croatian judiciary, but today we would like to know the answers to today's capacity of our courts, how much it will cost us, and whether we are prepared to present this as one project of this, this mandate of HS, this mandate of the ministry and our judicial system, because we will only say that we will switch everything to video, audio and digitalisation, and we have not really shown ourselves in this matter not only in the judiciary, but in a lot of other segments, it may be a little premise and a little too optimistic, so that we would also like to get certain deadlines. We welcome, of course, the management plan of the process, but we get the following sub-question, what will happen to those who will ultimately not stick to it, what will be sanctions, but also how will we reach out to all of what we know today that we have in certain procedures, that the defendants have their own policy to avoid coming to the hearings until some new moments arise and what if we exhaust everything we have prescribed, and we do not know what is the ultimate sanction if we do not respect this management plan and do not realize what we have drawn out. Also, deadlines, great stuff, nice story, it's nice to know that we're finally going to define more clearly what is expected during a certain period of time. It is certain that it will bring certain pluses and points to both citizenship and entrepreneurship, but the same thing has not been fully understood how we will sanction when it does not happen. We know a lot of cases where judges didn't knowingly do their job, we know a lot of cases where the defendants knowingly avoided justice, and we would welcome them if we had more clear answers in the framework of those deadlines if it wasn't enough. A lot of dust went up today on the Justice Committee about the Institute of Illegal Evidence. We are aware that it is in many situations in a certain way and protects human rights from the system, but we would just like to warn that it is a fairly slippery terrain and that it would be good to have a little better work there as well. And of course, what is going through this law, what is going through the minister, what is going through his communication, and the President of the Supreme Court, is certain to be well discussed at last about equating court practice, but the same thing here should be defined in which time, at which rate, and at the end of the day with which people and what infrastructure capacities, especially in this digital respect, where we have set ourselves a lack of ambitious goals. So, we welcome the attempt, we want to discuss it further, and as far as the SDP Club is concerned, we hope and believe that this law will bring power to all of us together without division of opposition and position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106091	8th is next up, dear colleague Bosnjakovic, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106092	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Ministers and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have a very important law before us, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the CAP. It is the law that actually regulates all the processes that are being conducted before our civil courts in civil proceedings and in all of those procedures that our citizens would say, most often, from the costs of damages, disturbances of property, family disputes, trade disputes and what I would say is that it represents one continuity of the desire to find a solution so that these procedures are as fast as possible and that our citizens in the proceedings before the courts exercise their rights in the shortest time. Despite all the efforts that have been made in the last 20 years, we still have a permanent and permanent problem with us, an increase in the trial and one uncertainty that when we go into some sort of trial we don't have some vision when it can end and how much justice it will take. I must say that this law that you are offering he offers a whole series of tools and a whole series of solutions that give us confidence that it will be much better in the future than it is today. Although if we looked at both 10 and 15 years, we would actually see that things are faster, that this process is more concentrated, is it really necessary to concentrate the procedure to be predictable, what is going to happen in this process, in which time will happen and ultimately what we are all talking about is digitisation not only in the judiciary but in all segments of society here is a very, very important element. And what we have to say is we already have a foundation, it's very important that we have established electronic communication within the proceedings between the parties, so the paper comes down to the most possible measure, the electronic communication court with the parties, so we have solved one part of it and the delivery that is the problem is, is in the delivery if someone doesn't take it in writing then the procedure is actually being extended. We already have largely digitized land books and procedures before courts. When I just remember how long we used to wait in line and announce that we wanted to get a copy of the land books, it actually happens in five minutes by electronic means. We also have the possibility today to establish a company from your office, from your room by electronic digital means and all those other components related to the launch of a company in work. It used to take a long time, a tour of a lot of institutions and institutions, and today it's ever shorter. Of course, digitization doesn't solve the essential problem, but it offers great tools, it offers really great tools to do things much, much faster. What I would like to point out in particular is a very important provision on the tone recording of the debate, it is like this seemingly one technical detail, one technical measure, but that is not exactly the case, it is a huge step because when we look at and analyze how the debate is going, each party sets out its views and this court accurately dictates and it dictates the debate in the record. This measure of sound recording of the debate will no longer be necessary, of course any judge and can cite attitudes and witnesses and all of it purely to help himself tomorrow when he writes the verdict to know something indicative who said what. But the basic document is a tone record, it's good for the minister to adopt a rule as set out here to set out in the details of the rules of the game and each of the parties will have that tone record and if there is any doubt he can examine it and know exactly what he said, not to say now that there are problems when the party says one quote, the judge dictates something else, the party says I didn't say it, but I said it, and then I said it and then it takes a debate and we don't really know at the end who said it to whom it was said. It's also a very good measure of distance debate, it's a great measure. In some ways already living in commercial courts it is applied, in municipal courts it was at the time of the pandemic applied the first thought of the Municipal Court in Pazin because the normative framework exists before, but it should now become in some way a habit, a routine of judges and there will be an important strong education that needs to be implemented to make this measure live. Not all discussions are of this magnitude that there are 10 witnesses, that there is no one to know, that it is good to put it in the hall and listen live, but actually there is a debate where the find of the witches is debated, and then we will be digitally involved by two parties or three parties, so it will be obvious and the expert in this way and everything, and they don't have to come directly into the building, they don't really have to waste time, but it's possible to do it in this much, much faster way. Also a very, very important measure is a management plan, it is a great measure, it means the parties and the court meet at the beginning and determine what evidence will be carried out, at what time interval, what is needed is this already giving an excuse that the procedure will ic, and also the time certainty that it will continue to develop. Clearly, not all can be predicted on the same day these parties are found but here this law offers us a variant if there are any disturbances of extraordinary situations that the plan is possible and changing. So as far as this is concerned, I think that this law does indeed offer in this sense the introduction of new modern technologies, but also new ones, in fact, means certain process solutions, to make this process faster. As for the amendments that the law offers, and they are related to the Institute of Audit, we need to know that in recent amendments, we have concentrated to even introduce the Institute of Audit upon the permission of the Supreme Court. We were overcrowded and overcrowded, the Supreme Court was audited, mostly I'd say where they didn't belong. Now a little more order and order is being introduced here, which I think will contribute more effectively to the work of the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court will indeed deal with those cases that will have a strong and more powerful impact on the uniforming of court practice. Also related to the view dispute, and it is also a provision that has long lived in such a form or in such a form, but here through this new solution to allow both parties and the interfaces to see the dispute, and not only that the proposal is made by the courts, I think it will contribute to that we may have more than one view disputes, and this will again shorten the proceedings because the Supreme Court takes decisions in these visual disputes are mandatory and must apply. So I think it's a very, very good provision that certainly has room and should be used. Of course, after these amendments to the law, there is still room for progress for a second reading anyway. After these amendments to the law, strong education and the application of these modern technologies will be needed because we need to be honest there are already some modern technologies that have not come to life and are not being used. For example, we also have to make a ton of recording especially in criminal proceedings. Is this more adequate probably not, because every year the technique develops and new solutions come in and out. So it will actually be necessary with all these judges and writers and their assistants to work on the application of these technologies, because I am the law and I am the normative framework unless there is an adequate application that will get some results. As for the introduction of all this is very good here it is legally stated, that you have provided money for the purchase of these funds. It's these 68 million kunas that are secured in the budget, they'll be redistributed. That's very good, because very often the problem was great things to write, but then there's no money to apply, so give it up. Therefore, here we welcome these proposed amendments to the Law on Prosecution. The Croatian Democratic Community will support them, and in the second reading we will see some more changes that can only be improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106093	Thank you and everyone who participated in the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we move to the second point today - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, First Reading, P.Z. No. 265. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, so I call again on the minister of justice and the administration of the respected Ivan Malenica to further explain this bill. Here you go. Before the minister, we have a request for a break. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106096	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. I'm taking the opportunity to ask for a break on behalf of the club, and that deliberately between the discussions on these two laws, because no matter how much at first sight, one is a civil procedure, but also a number of topics covered by these laws are complementary. And if you were listening to the debate, and here you are, and I know you're watching the clock to say so in a colloquial way, then you could hear that most of the objections were focused on very specific issues, which is what we're bringing a legal solution that represents a certain shift, but are the funds and the material conditions for that being secured? I'm going to spread it a little bit not only to the question of audio visual recording the debate, to the tone recording debate I'm going to extend it to another question. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan provides for certain means of publication of all judicial decisions. And you and I both know that there are technical conditions in courts already in place because decisions in unanonymised form are, for example, available to us through the system of e-Citizens. However, my question to you is concrete and clear when will we withdraw the means of publication, public publication in a machine-readable form of all decisions, all courts anonymously, and how does this process, prepare for this progress? And this is an extremely important question. I'll show it only on the case of Judge Tomic. A known case from Bratsch where people were being kidnapped. If those decisions had been made public and made publicly available, the case would not have occurred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106097	Thank you. The apartment is approved. Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106098	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Center and GLAS Club for 10 minutes for further consultations. I'm partly moved by the search for this pause and the words of Peja Grbina. During the debate on the first point, I deeply pointed out this problem of transparency of the work of the judiciary that depends on the public availability of all court decisions and the possibility of searching in key terms. It's an important principle of building our citizens' trust, but it's not crucial, so I'm asking a question here and what we're actually doing. At this point, most of our MPs are focusing on the discussions that take place on committees, thinking about who will be the future minister in this government. And we have these discussions precisely because the previous ministers have been removed because of corruption affairs that will be discussed in the context of the criminal proceedings. And as trust in the judiciary will not be corrected by the adoption of this law, nor will trust in politics be corrected by the appointment of new ministers as long as the basis of both parliamentary majority is composed of HDZ members. Therefore, I think that public attention should also be focused differently and that we should ultimately discuss whether the entire government should be replaced at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106099	The apartment is approved. Comrade Habib, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106100	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am also asking for a 10-minute recess to be highlighted before the debate on this legislative proposal itself, but also on the legislative proposal that we had the opportunity to discuss recently as well as one and the other of this procedural law, which, in the first reading today, we are discussing presented a significant step in the first reading. This can therefore be said both from personal experience and from many colleagues who here and lawyers who are part of the justice system itself either in litigation or in criminal proceedings. As far as material resources are concerned, I think it is very clear in the explanation that, therefore, when we talk about the Criminal Procedure Act, how exactly the National Recovery and Resistance Plan provides for how these funds will be obtained, I think it is also very clear in the explanation on the last page, so what funds will be said after years in the budget so provided when we talk about the state budget. Therefore, if we miss this opportunity now when we talk about the NPO, the question is when else will be, if we have the true will to do something step in the Croatian judiciary, especially in modernization, digitisation of the process itself, then I think it is now and everyone who thinks differently or says otherwise obviously has other intentions. Therefore, I would like to say this debate on behalf of the HDZ Club of Representatives in the direction of constructiveity, to highlight all that is good and besides those who are stakeholders in this process are the vast majority of all Croatian citizens, so I do not only think about lawyers or state attorneys but many of our fellow citizens who are participants in themselves are either litigious, or criminal proceedings, ultimately it is for the benefit of all of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106101	And this break, this request has been granted. He will now explain his request for a break and his colleague, Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106102	Thank you. I am looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club in order to consult not on this bill, so some small improvements should certainly be welcomed, but what we need is to change the entire system, move policy from the work of independent institutions and actually too long the duration of criminal proceedings. We have yesterday a situation in Osijek-Baranja County where there is talk of a faction conflict within HDZ where one director of the county agency, a councilman, has been arrested, and in fact we all know that rulings have a strong influence on independent institutions, which should not have influence, have influence on the police, too. Here we have Mayor Decanic of Vukovar-Srijem County where police have actually assisted in saving his political head and today we also have a presentation of 3 government officials where we cannot talk at all about the government's reconstruction but we can talk eventually about decriminalisation of the government even though complete decriminalisation could only happen by leaving this government from key positions in the country and calling early elections. So all these cosmetic changes proposed by Minister Malenica will not have any real effect until these key changes occur, and I am primarily thinking about changing the political nomenclature. That's what we need, and that's the prerequisite for any change, and so is the change in our judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106103	The apartment is approved. And fellow Sacic also wants to explain the break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106104	Thank you very much. I am also looking for a break on behalf of the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes in order to point out to the Croatian public, as well as the Minister that these provisions amend and supplement the Law on Criminal Procedure will certainly contribute and contribute to a faster, more efficient, more effective trial in important cases of interest for the Republic of Croatia, in criminal cases. However, the key question is what is going on in this area of processing, prosecution and trial, how much effort we have done, and the fact that a department of USKOK, one of the most important departments of USKOK, the Department of Research for Financial Traces of Money is not filled, not staffed, has not been trained professionally at the highest level that we must ask OLAF for services from the EU in the absence of our experts involved in the detection of the most serious forms of crime in the Republic of Croatia, the ministry and the minister undertakes that this certainly improves and makes it necessary as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106105	Okay, we'll take a break by 11 o'clock and 10 minutes, and we'll continue the presentation of Minister Malenica. It's 11:00.59.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106106	Thank you so much for stopping talking. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 11:13 A.M.]] Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? The Minister of Justice and the Administration of Mr. Ivan Malenica is here with us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106107	Thank you very much, esteemed vice president of HS. Honorable MPs and MPs. The proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Procedure Act extends the possibility of using digital technologies in criminal law. The amendments and additions to the laws that you are about to discuss today will allow for a tone recording of all discussions, extend the possibility of holding a hearing at a distance and introduce a system of e-Communications in the criminal branch of the trial. When we talk about e-communication on criminal proceedings, the introduction of electronic communication in criminal proceedings allows the sending of letters in electronic form to shorten the time and costs of proceedings, and the participants will be facilitated by communication with the court. e-Communication is already in force in all commercial, municipal and county courts and in the High Court of Commerce of the Republic of Croatia and the Supreme Court, and since January 2022 and in administrative courts. The system uses more than 70,000 users. In the case of sound recording of new legal amendments, the conditions for mandatory tone recording of criminal proceedings shall be established. In discussions where a certain audio recording will not be required, the President of the Council will decide on this when there are reasonable reasons for this, and in particular if it will be requested by a defendant who does not have a defender. Full use of the tone recording of the hearing will lead to speed up the process, easier monitoring of the debate and increasing the effectiveness of the judicial system, which shows the experience of other EU Member States. When it comes to remote hearings, amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act also extend the possibility of using an audio visual link in a criminal procedure or the possibility of maintaining a remote hearing with the existing possibility of using an audio video link, the possibility of using an audio video link at meetings of the accused council and on preparatory hearings shall also be provided. That possibility will be decided by the President of the Council depending on the circumstances of each case. This Code of Criminal Procedure is one of the key procedural laws. With the proposed changes, we plan to make certain steps to make these procedures faster. Electronic exchange of letters will simplify communication, and tone recording will allow certain phases of the process to be accelerated. Dear MPs and MPs, I believe that today's debate, that today's debate will actually recognise the importance of the proposed newspapers and that you will make your proposals a contribution to the amendments to this law to make court proceedings faster and more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106108	Thank you, too. Mr. Mazhar's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106109	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Justice. Here we have seen today following the amendments and the addition of the Law on a litigation procedure that, before us now, the amendments and additions to the Law on Criminal Procedure on Track and the Parity Procedure, where the vast majority and opposition today welcomed all the changes that are going and towards a more efficient procedure, more transparent ultimately in the better quality of justice. We continue to do so today with amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. What I am interested to hear from your exposure that as far as e-communication is concerned, administrative courts, poisoning courts, municipal and county courts, high commercial court or 70,000 users are already using e-communication, so can you perhaps from the application of practice even though it has not been long enough to say what effects e-communications are practically in all courts except criminal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106110	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106111	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So you pointed out well that e-communication is important and important and that it has actually shown good results in practice. So, we have trade courts, high commercial courts, municipal, county court actually informing the entire judiciary is something important and something that is important and, in fact, with these amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, we continue that information, i.e. we include the information and the criminal procedure itself. Therefore, only the introduction of e-Communication involves sending submissions, delivering letters by digital means, so not only by courts to parties or public bodies, but also by natural persons and I believe that promoting the e-Communication system itself will allow for easier communication of all parties tomorrow, all citizens that actually using the e-Citizen system can achieve certain advantages of this e-Communication system that we will continue to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106112	Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106113	Thank you. Dear Minister. I will not, of course, criticise these changes here because they are nothing at all controversial, we all want to speed up and communicate, digitize as much of our judiciary as possible, but after this term, when you do it, how much will you actually be happy with the situation in our judiciary? Is our judiciary really independent? Are all the people who join our judicial institutions, our courts in the same position? What have we done to keep these processes from taking so long? And as far as we can put it, it will never be possible completely, but how much justice and just our judiciary are actually as much in a certain correlation, is there any justice at all, and can people come to justice in front of Croatian courts?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106114	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106115	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here I think that we will agree that there are certain problems in the judiciary itself, we treat them as certain challenges that are seen through the NPOO, this is also seen through the National Plan for the Development of Public Administration in the end through these today amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Criminal Procedure, as well as those laws and regulations that we will change in the next period. The changes in the judiciary can't come overnight and I can't come with amendments to one law, and for that reason I mentioned that this year we have about 50 laws in HS that we're changing and agreeing on some kind of mosaic change that I'm sure I'll say after the passage of my mandate that I've received some positive changes in the Croatian judiciary. For example, I would point out the upcoming amendments to the Law on Peace where we strengthen this institute, the extraparation procedure, the court delivery, so we are going to go after that, and so is the DSV Act, the Law on the State's Attorney's Council, the Law on Judicial Exercises, the Law on the Judicial Academy, so a whole spectrum of different regulations that will certainly contribute to justice being more independent and effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106116	Thank you, thank you very much. And Mrs. McNally. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106117	Ministers, the public lost confidence in the judiciary mostly because of poorly-leaded corruption proceedings against politicians, most of them were high-ranking HDZ members. Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, I referred HS, and I reiterated it once more as a representative in this conference the proposal of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, amongst the concrete proposals it was to follow the trail of the file. For example, a concrete file is the written by Milan Bandic, which was from 2014, until his death in 2021. was in the phase of rest. You didn't do it, you didn't touch even those problems that the state's attorney's office pointed to. For example, against an indictment dismissed by the accused council by the State Attorney's Office, there is no possibility of raising a legal remedy, while the accused councils in their decision extend their powers where they do not have them, enter into the foundation under examination at the further stage of the trial.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106118	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106119	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs, so you came from this system, you were a lawyer and you know the way of work of Croatian courts and judges. So each case is in the hands of the judge who handles the case and actually determines the dynamics of the case itself. It also has specific procedural tools at its disposal to discipline parties in the process. On the other hand, we also have the independence of the judiciary and certain restrictions that the ministry or government or legislator has according to a particular judge or specific case, so each case is individual. We try to allow these judges in each particular case and file to have as high-quality tools as possible and, in fact, to solve certain items as soon as possible within the shortest possible. I can agree with you that certain criminal proceedings take too long, but as an executive authority and as a legislative authority, we cannot influence any specific subject matter but is in the hands of the judge and council who manages the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106120	Thank you, no more replicas, thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, first of all, with the clubs of Mr. Nicole Grmoy, they'll represent the views of the Bridge, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106121	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, we are very few here in the assembly, and the issues are therefore the amendments to the laws that seek to improve things in our judiciary that many and in election campaigns say mean to the judiciary itself that it is actually a cancer of the early Croatian society, that all the problems we have from a lack of investment to the general dissatisfaction of Croatian citizens and emigration from the country are due to the poor situation in the judiciary. It is understandable that now few colleagues are here because here during this debate we also have committees where ministers are represented, where there is actually one, a tight schedule for which we are not responsible but ruling. Here's the prime minister had plenty of time to find replacements for three government officials who are under serious investigation, but apparently there's no interest in entering a government like this, so it went to this narrow reconstruction because no one wants to be part of this government. Mr. Habian, I see that you have not shown any desire to enter and ambition to enter such a government, so Plenkovic had to reach out to such people as Mr. Filipovic, who lost his election in Zagreb or his colleague Piletic, who, I guess, suppressed his ego to become part of the government, but no one standing firm with two legs on the ground would want to be part of this kind of government at the moment. But what is a much bigger problem than the very composition of Plenkovic's government is a whole system that does not really have the will and Prime Minister Plenkovic himself to deal with corruption and get rid of things in the Croatian judiciary, so we have these kind of cosmetic changes from time to time, and we all know that Croatian citizens have no primary confidence in the judiciary right here, a colleague Oreshkovic mentioned because of these criminal proceedings against politicians, famous public figures, so people who can influence the judiciary or their political influence, their acquaintances or we have the recognition of football managers as they have influenced the judges themselves, bribed them, and that is what actually ruins the trust of Croatian citizens in the judiciary, of course, and the longevity of the proceedings themselves. And I think the only way things can change is by leaving this corrupt structure from power, by coming one new set of people to power that won't mean having any tails behind, any affair and having enough strength, determination, enthusiasm, reckoning, dealing with corruption. And I think that time is coming, that time is very close and I can testify here how nervous really is the key people of HDZ, HDZ agents because of this change that's coming, so the announcement that I've been making here is just a little bit more to cause anxiety in the HDZ lines. He's laughing at fellow Habib that we're about to take up key positions in the country. So it's caused anxiety and it's become a major topic, so it's become a major topic for a colleague of HDZ's representatives, and that doesn't matter at all. It doesn't matter which people take over certain positions, so it's important that these people have nothing to do with any affairs, any crime or corruption. This has obviously become a problem in HDZ to find such ones, so Plenkovic boasts that these are young people who have no weight whatsoever. So now, the most important thing in HDZ is to become a minister of youth and to be as little as possible, so in some position because it's less likely that you're involved in some kind of corruption affair or scandal, here. So you co-workers had a lot of chances, too. I'm sorry this time it didn't happen, but maybe some other time. From this place, another judiciary. I don't get settled in. [[Please! Please! Just keep going.]] Thank you. [[I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to start making warnings. Let's not! Give me a minute to stop, give me back the chronometer, and here you go, Mr. Grmoy.]] And, well, I'm used to the Honorable Vice President when I say that there's a lot of anxiety in HDZ so I don't mind at all. So these are the situations I deal with every day, and I learned to deal with them. What I'm saying is, resolving the issue in the Croatian judiciary is a key problem, and I think that any government should first address the problem in the judiciary. We've lost 400,000 people in the last 10 years. Part of the people left Croatia due to existential problems. Part of the people left because they feel that there is no equal opportunity in Croatia, there is no equal opportunity for employment, there is no equal opportunity in front of institutions, there is no equal opportunity, there is no equal chance of proving it means their innocence or to prove the guilt of those who may have damaged him before Croatian courts. And that's why people leave. What have we had in the last 10 years? 400,000 people less, 4,000 employees only in these past few years more in public administration. We also have major problems, so around the city of Zagreb and Banovina, we now have huge inflation and price growth and these are the key problems of Croatian society but primarily the judiciary and we will focus on that. The fight against corruption as I think is a prerequisite for any economic and economic development of the Republic of Croatia. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106122	You, too. Mrs. Dalia Oreskovic will represent the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, please. It's on, yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106123	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. First of all, I would suggest, and in fact I would ask the Honorable Minister then the members of the Committee on Justice, then the members of the Committee on Law and, if necessary, the members of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to take into account the report of the main state attorney, even some of the old ones who have already adopted the Croatian Parliament from Dinko Cvitan. So there, somewhere from 2014, 2015 to today. And that they take the task of getting out of these reports everything that happens from year to year, and in the system it doesn't change, so it doesn't change through changes and additions to this law. Now I'm not going to talk about just having an insufficient number of state lawyers, I'm not going to talk about having only 33 judicial employees covering the entire Republic of Croatia's jurisdiction. 33 USKOK employees are not enough to comb through the corruption affairs of the bloated ministers of the government, let alone do anything else beyond that. And yes, it is a fact that since 2014, we have been planning to form special financial investigators at 4 main courts in Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka and Split and that only last year we seem to have filled in 2, imagine just 2 special financial investigators. The reason is in inadequate coefficients. The fact is that in the city of Zagreb we have a ruined building in which UskoK and DORH were located without doing anything to restore the building. The fact is that all over Croatia are very bad conditions in which the state's attorneys work, but that is otherwise Croatia's trend how will you recognise that this is a judicial building? Well, since it's usually the busiest and most devastationed building in a city. However, the quality of the trial depends, above all, not on the introduction of these digital information tools, and that I am now not repeating in this debate everything I have said about the amendments to the Law on the Prosecution I will say something very specific to the criminal proceedings, and you will find in these reports submitted by the Attorney General. And now here's how much you're going to give yourself a year, so year after year back. Something that repeats itself is really about confirming the indictment. And the fact is, correct me if I'm wrong about the decision to return the indictment to the State's Attorney's office still not having the possibility of filing a complaint. Practice shows that the accused councils, when assessing the basis of the indictment, are crossing the limits of their powers and are very often engaged in assessing the evidence force of the evidence analysed, which is something that should only be done at some later stage of the criminal proceedings, so these are some basic mechanisms that must be resolved by changes and additions to criminal proceedings, and here we have now missed the opportunity to deal with the substance itself and matter itself. And what I was talking about in the replica, if we are talking about corruption affairs and if we are talking about a bad trial where it is the most sensitive issue, it is very easy to identify 5, 10, 15, 20 procedures against high-level politicians in which judges have either made wrong decisions or have not made them at all, so is it such great wisdom to take these files, comb them from cover to cover, except that you will come up with concrete data that are corrupt judges who do not do their job in the right way you will also get very reasonable explanations where the law needs to change how the procession part of so perhaps and some of the provisions of material law. Until we resolve this, unfortunately, these changes and additions that you are now proposing which could in principle be supported, are not bad, but are merely cosmetics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106124	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Romana Nikolic, Club of Representatives Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106125	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Assembly, the Honorable Ministers, the Secretary of State, my fellow Members and fellow MPs. The proposed amendments introduce a newspaper that will modernise the criminal proceedings, speed up and provide instruments for a more effective criminal trial, all with a view to reducing the length of the proceedings, and therefore propose to introduce e-communication, extend the use of audio recording of the debate, as well as mandatory tone recording of discussions. As regards the introduction of e-communication, it has been introduced in the application of all already commercial courts, administrative courts, municipal and county courts, in litigation proceedings, and in high commercial courts, it is therefore logical to introduce it in criminal proceedings. The application in those courts has proved to be effective, therefore it is assumed that it could also be well received in criminal proceedings. The e-communication system will enable the sending of letters online, which will shorten the time and costs of the procedure, and make it easier for participants to communicate with the court. Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act extend the possibility of using an audiovisual link in a criminal procedure or the possibility of holding discussions at a distance. A copy of the debate will not, will not be required, but will be decided by the president of the council when there is a reasonable reason for that. Full use of the tone recording of the hearing will lead to accelerated proceedings, easier monitoring of discussions and increased efficiency of the judicial system. In addition, everything mentioned just as with the amendment of the CAP, despite the legislator's efforts to speed up, to speed up the judicial procedure, it is doubtful how much longer it will take to achieve this objective. All amendments depend on the goodwill and time of adaptation of the judges themselves if, unless the application of the amendment does not exist, there is no sanction for them. Therefore, what could be introduced if the judges do not want to apply the amendments, and the disputes continue to be delayed and kept in the drawer, we propose some indication of themselves and an explanation of the situation that will continue to be decided by the competent authorities and to take firm measures. The established practice is difficult to change in view of the fact that this is already the ninth change in sequence and that it is necessary to give some time to adapt, but if we want to have an orderly and efficient judiciary this is a good way to do so. Also in view of the debate on both the Committee on Legislatives and the whole series of objections to this bill for the sake of the legal certainty of the Social Democrats Club, the Social Democrats believes it is necessary to approach the development of a whole new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106126	You, too. Mr. Zeljko Sačić, Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106127	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues and the Croatian public. Here is this, as I have already announced, a proposal to amend the Criminal Procedure Act was, in my opinion, a much more complex procedure than the amendments to the ZPP, because the provisions of that segment are far more extensive and complicated and refer to a whole series of these components of legal institutes and different procedures, while the Criminal Procedure Act can, in a far simpler way, intervene and disprove with this, with this innovation of our government with regard to digitisation or the application of information communication technologies, in order to speed up and simplify the legal procedure for the taking of statements and communication of all subjects of criminal proceedings. This is good, it is certainly one step towards speeding up the criminal proceedings themselves, and even the effectiveness of the bodies leading the proceedings and the trial, both in terms of the defence and in terms of determining the factual situation and the decision-making. We have certainly not entered this process for any reasonable reasons, but you have given them the opportunity to use modern technology with e-communication, to open an e-mail mailbox, for people who are ignorant of information, who do not have lawyers, you have allowed them to go through the old system, and if they want to get involved in it, if you do not continue to, or ours, our courts will continue to communicate in the way that is common. This is all we now have a chance to read assumptions, assuming one degree of security. I won't at all, I won't question at all, like colleagues Michelle and Mr. Zurovec about what would be if, if there was a possibility of hacking, is there any possibility of abuse of the information system, I won't discuss it, it's settled, it's a confused matter, you have professional services, technical services that, so where are we going to come if we're going to get more questions. Of course there is a possibility and of course they will be hacked, but professional services are that they prevent and reduce it to the least possible measure, and we take it as a assumption that it will not happen and that it will positively echo among the parties. What is not good at this, in this bill of law, is the possibility of delaying the application of these very good measures. You have put yourself as Minister for the right to allow certain municipal and county courts to apply these instruments when they reach the level of technical, technical readiness. So when this courtroom of 184 as many as there are in Croatia, it will be able to function in an audio visual or audio recording way. Don't delay work, you have money, you raise that level, you take from somewhere else, let the government from their reserves not only with 16 million planned for this modernization, modernization from support and resilience funds, but from other elements take that money and fix it. Of course, it's a priority to put the roof first so it doesn't leak ok, but parallel to that earthquake it's done its thing, we respect all of it, but you've secured 40, 50 billion money, out of these 40, 50 billion people who aren't so much of a priority, which isn't so nationalally important with the security and legal certainty of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and invest in that criminal procedure system, not only 16 million, but if necessary for a litigation procedure, you've secured 68 million, so make sure here as long as it takes, that this is parallel and that we can really say here without delay, we're going to reform the criminal system, the functioning of criminal legislation and criminal proceedings both in criminal and criminal, criminal cases. Not that it will now and it will remain undetermined. You haven't given any time limit in which the minister may say so. You just said with a delay. How much? It could take 10, 15, 20 years, or what I know, maybe two years from now, God forbid. So make a commitment here somehow. It's about that, and about the other aspects, I think it'll certainly positively echo, our judges, the writers will have less to do, the presidents of the council too. You've given them a deadline now that they don't need to work for five days, but at the end of the day it's not the same problem, buy them those models which, which they have, are a little more expensive, but which turns phonetically into an expression into this writing form and the end of the story. It's easy to solve today, but a little more expensive, more expensive these expensive procedures. In any case, God forbid you make it on that road and don't delay, don't burn the money.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106128	Thank you. Mr. Michel Jaksic, SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106129	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs, I was about to say at the beginning of my presentation that today we agree in everything with my colleague Sacic, then he went a little bit to decide what we talked about, but I'm glad we understood that, too, but you from your previous career know that caution is never enough. When we talk about amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, I must also say that the SDP Club feels that this is an attempt to make a positive step and it is certain that we are ready through further discussion and amendments, especially when another reading comes prepared to take a position that we can all together support this law. What we would certainly like to try once again is the fact that every step when we talk about making the system more efficient so that finally the judicial processes start to run in a faster way, and therefore likely at the end of the day to be and fairer is something that we certainly need to praise and that one step that we want to take in the direction of digitisation is something that will make the system better. But what we mustn't forget when we talk about changes to the CAP is that we can still look back at everything that has happened historically through our CAP and all the big criminal persecutions that we unfortunately had in Croatia. All those fugitives across the border, all the things that ended up out of date, all the things where people were arrested and their lives were destroyed so that after a 5, 10, 15, 20 years of litigation, or it ended up out of date or nowhere, it ended up being eaten by a donkey wolf. There was talk of some great damages, and in the end nothing other than that some other destroyed lives have been determined, but we would also like to talk about what we can all do together so that both the state's attorneyship and the USCOK would be even better and human and infrastructureally and financially teamed because what comes to us through a number of reports this assembly receives and gets is that simply these people are doing hard work in difficult circumstances in situations where crime becomes increasingly complex and may be done in some ways that no one 10, 20, 30 years ago could think of being possible, and simply through the budget we don't give enough space and we don't give enough motive, but I won't give a word of reason, but enough importance to those people who should protect us from such criminal activities. What remains of us hanging in the air as a question of these changes to the CAP is something that has been discussed on the Justice Committee itself and I must say that my colleague Martinovic explained it very vigorously and I am sure that what remains in the air will be even better explained by the second reading and even clearer. And today, several times, it has also been mentioned in the discussion of changes in both the CAP and the CAP, and we are asking only one question, okay video, audio, processing, hearings, trials, but what it means for those people who are unable to analyze and monitor it in a way that is needed to defend themselves in the processes in which they may possibly be. The question arises whether this work may not be too much against those who still have the right to defend themselves against those incriminating parts that are being burdened by the fact that just to draw this line, not everyone who is in prison may not be able to, but perhaps many times neither the knowledge of being so informatively written and that they are able to do so. And the second question is right now, what about those judges who won't respect all those norms, all those deadlines, and all that we're going to put before them as a chance for a new step. We didn't see until the end how much sanctions themselves were worked out. There is so much from the Club of the SDP with one final sentence that we welcome these efforts, but given what we can and can see and can hear, and what is encouraged in these discussions, perhaps in some future period we should think about a large comprehensive package of changes to the entire CAP that we do not have every little bit of work, processing because we have just now made a lot of subjects clear and filtered on which I think we could all do even better and even stronger steps together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106130	You, too. Mr Damir Habian will represent the positions of the HDZ Club of Representatives... Here you go. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106131	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the MPs and the MPs. Here's someone already said today we are really discussing very important two procedural laws, so the ZPP and the CAP and I can only conclude from this presence or that it is legal, and one and another legislative proposal that are excellent or simply obvious for some reason for me unknown is not too much of an interest in these two laws. As far as the CAP is concerned, I think that without a problem, we can say that it is a procedural law, a kind of, perhaps, sacred letter of procedural or criminal law, especially for those of us who may be more or more from practice. What we talk about when we talk about justice, especially when we talk about criminal law most often in public i.e. The long-term nature of the proceedings and we are aware of it, and everyone who we may have once been a part of these proceedings was as lawyers, either as a party itself, either as a state's attorney's office, and every step that goes in the direction actually to speed up the criminal procedure itself, I think it's good and I think it's commendable. If I am well aware of what my colleagues have said before me on behalf of their clubs, there is in principle an agreement that all these three elements that actually refer to the digitisation of the criminal procedure itself are going in this direction to speed up the criminal proceedings, regardless of what there may be one or two open issues that my previous counterpart Jaksic mentioned. What you would also like to say is a lot we have spoken through every debate when we touch particularly criminal legislation is about corruption, the perception of corruption is mentioned, and in that analysis that was actually published in that strategy for preventing corruption for the period 2021, and I keep saying that because I think it's important to repeat. The fact is that a large number, a large majority of citizens believe that the judiciary is just covered when we speak to corruption, but what is much more interesting than that percentage is less than 50% of the citizens have actually ever had contact with the judiciary or the judiciary. Therefore, I think it would be good sometimes when we speak in public space to ask ourselves who is actually creating such a public change and why this sense of corruption in the judiciary is as it is. This is where when we talk about the document that we adopted last year in this Croatian House, so the Anti-Corruption Strategy should certainly be mentioned with the CAP and everything that has already been done on the basis of this document and the basis of the Hodogram which is and as provided for in this document by the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, by the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, the Law on Lobbing, the Law on the State's Attorney's Council, on DSV which are also announced. Therefore, I would say the whole segment and package of laws that are just heading towards that true fight, that is, preventing corruption, above all, and fighting corruption in the Republic of Croatia. Also in the NPOO itself for the period '21-'26. which has been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which in some way represents a specific action plan of measures and reforms in different areas precisely within the component of public administration, justice and state property, therefore proposals and projects and reforms that are important for the modernisation of the judiciary, and already in that document, if you read it, are envisaged and it is necessary to continue the digitalisation process of the judiciary with the optimization of business processes and the improvement of the planning system, as well as further investment in judicial infrastructure. So the fact is, with digitisation, it will certainly be necessary to take care of the conditions in which judges actually work, and I mean, first of all, the legal infrastructure itself. It is, of course, one issue that is private, but I'm sure the Ministry of Justice and the Administration is also taking care of it. Of these proposed changes that may not be relevant, but are important precisely because of the modernisation and acceleration of the process itself, so I will mention once again the introduction of e-communications that are already already already in the CAP by amendments if I am not mistaken in 2017 is introduced. But because of a particular solution where the copy was actually bound to create certain problems and actually I would say that it never came to life in practice. Now that part of the obligatory, i.e. mandatory copy, is moving away from what I think is good. I'm sure it'll come to life now. Also extend the use of tone recording and expand the ability to use audio video link. Therefore, all three elements will certainly contribute to the acceleration of the process. I'm saying that's all we're all talking about right now when we're talking about criminal proceedings that might be the biggest problem. Someone well said the dispute of justice is not really justice, nor is it justice for the victim of a possible crime, nor is it for the defendant himself, or the suspect of the crime committed. In its first reading, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support these proposed amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. We say we think we're going in the right direction and we commend the Ministry of Justice and Administration on the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106132	Mr. Dario Zurovec will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of Focus and Independent Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106133	Here's a thank you. Since I've already referred to one part of this law, I'm going to read a letter from a lawyer just so that the general public can see through the waist how the problem within these laws can be seen. The biggest problem for the defendants themselves, the suspects and then their defenders, the proposal in Articles 19 and 20, which provide for mandatory audio recording of the debate without transcripts or transcripts, will make up the audio video of the debate and the record of the course of the debate. Namely, the defendant does not have the right to copy the video from the debate even when there is no defenders, but the copy depends solely on the assessment of the President of the Council which decides on this on the basis of an unspecified criterion of justifiable reasons. Taking into account even if the defendant does not have a defender, however, the draft proposal does not state which reasons could be justified, except by saying, in particular, in the case of a defendant who does not have a defender and when the debate begins again because of a change in the composition of the council. In this connection, the following start-up problem is imposed. Let us consider that a verdict has been reached at the hearing, and the defendant has no defenders, the same request for a copy of the video. Will the time limit for making a copy of the video and the time for submission affect the course of the appeal? The work of the Court of Appeal will be very difficult without copying, or transcripting evidence, and will lead to further deterioration of the control function of the High Court, which means the quality of judgments and judicial jurisprudences, and this is exactly what the bill allows. We believe that the copying of the video of the debate must be an obligation, not that the same depends on the assessment of the President of the Council. Only in this way will respect the rights of suspects, defendants and respect for the basic principles of the parties and, in particular, the principle of equality of arms, and ultimately enable the exercise of the control function of a higher court, which necessarily leads to quality judgments and, of course, the effectiveness of the court proceedings. I'm going to leave this paper for Mr. Secretary, so I hope you'll consider it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106134	Thank you. Mrs. Sandra Bencic, Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106135	I thank the chairman. I'll say it first because I want all citizens to know why there are no parliamentary deputies here today. There are no MPs here, not because they would be uninterested in the question of what HDZ represents as a judicial reform, but thank God it's not, so no one has to get excited because it's literally about the technical changes but it's very dangerous and I'll say in which part. However, the hearing committees of ministers, i.e. ministers' candidates, are placed on the day of the session, and this session at which we have the PPP and the CAP is embarrassing. Because I don't see any reason why the Minister's hearings couldn't have been on Tuesday when the session was gone. Didn't you know who was going to be ministers on Tuesday? Did they get out of their hats on Tuesday? So this must never happen again. Of course, everyone who is a board member must be at these hearings, because they must also vote among other things and cannot be present here. And what kind of debate we have about what you represent as a judicial reform here's one, two, three, four, five, here's six. And I could only come now, because now I'm coming from the Environment Committee that was hearing the minister. As regards the CAP and the amendments and additions to the Department of Criminal Procedure Law, the judges, the whole expert community gave a series of very reasoned objections in public consultation. These remarks were not accepted and we do not see them in this proposal, although in the first reading, but we do not see this reflection. So you are told in public consultation that the whole proposal contains a series of shortcomings that are fundamental because they are literally unfair to the defendant for violating the fundamental rights of defence and the principles of equality of arms. And the criminal proceedings themselves could become dysfunctional at the stage of the debate and at the stage of the appeal procedure. So this proposal comes down to so-called. Modernization. For example, modernization through the introduction of new technological solutions such as e-communication, the introduction of audio logs by recording and expanding the use of audio video links. No problem at all. This, everyone will support the use of, of course, modern technologies that allow for more effective criminal proceedings. But when they are introduced, they cannot be introduced in a way that threatens the fundamental rights to defend the defendants he has so far. For example. can't disable audio recording by introducing, and the defence's view of the transcription is disabled. The copy's gone. Tell me, how will a party who is not digitally written participate equally in this criminal procedure as you imagined? So in Croatia there are still people who are illiterate, so illiterate in terms of literally reading and writing, fortunately little, fortunately we have few in that we are not the worst in the world or... However, for them, the Code of Criminal Procedure provided for mechanisms in which they can participate in the procedure, in which they can defend themselves and predicted that ok, they cannot participate alone, cannot defend themselves, and that is the party which should be bound by official duty of the MPs. But what, for example, will apply to that party that is not digitally written, who cannot listen to the audio recording, which cannot participate in the e-communication that the defendant's rights will have on the defense and are these endangered? So every courtroom will also be equipped with a car transcription device that will allow for the production of automatic transcription with a high level of accuracy and indexing of the place in the transcript where errors have been identified. So, at the end of the 30th and some million kunas, 30th and some million kunas were given for the software for vessels that enables so-called. text too spych i.e. that when our judges dictate the record or spy too text that is automatically converted into text. Most judges don't use it, if they used it we wouldn't even have this copy problem. So it can't go like this, how it's now set up like this can't stay. So, one of the things that we see all the time as a problem in the length of proceedings that are not addressed here is the litigation process, but especially the criminal procedure, which is that especially in the criminal proceedings of the appeal instance, instead of deciding for themselves the case and when and when I can and when I can, when there is no need to carry out new evidence, therefore, and when I can make a decision, they don't make a decision, but they return to the first degree and we have a big percentage you know that we have a big percentage of such decisions. This is what makes this procedure long-term because, according to the appeal procedure, the Court of Second Instance made an independent decision, it would have been made much faster. The fact that the Supreme Court is no longer a third degree and that it does not participate in all proceedings will not contribute to the acceleration of these proceedings, but will certainly be made available in that section concerning the rights of the defendant, the fair trial, but particularly in the case-laws section. The introduction of a new institution that you have literally brought in to give some responsible judges good positions within the judiciary, we are talking about a high criminal, in fact, in one significant part the Supreme Court has been decapitated and disabled in its fundamental function and legal function, and that is the question of unifying judicial practice. I don't even want to say what was done at the level of administrative trial with a high administrative court where the Supreme Court has no authority at all, and where it also decides on the rights and obligations of our citizens. So you intervened in the system in a way that you've set up new institutions, that you've weakened the Supreme Court, that you've weakened the possibility of evening court practice, now so-called. Modernization you call judicial reform. This is not a reform, so it's not the introduction of digital reform tools. I mean, realistically, here we are living in a normal country, so would technology change the law of criminal or litigation? So we use technologies that serve the same purpose, and we call the introduction of new technologies reform, and we need a fundamental turn, a fundamental turn. We need concentrated debates in the litigation process to concentrate discussions in criminal proceedings to speed up these proceedings, we need a different role of appeal courts who make decisions on their own and do not return three times to the first stage and we need a strong Supreme Court that really has jurisdiction over all levels, over all levels of justice both in litigation and in criminal and administrative trials, so that we can really work on equating judicial practice, the way rules are interpreted and how the rights of citizens are protected against any other natural persons or against the state, and we do not have this. So this isn't any judicial reform, so it's a minor shame that you've done that none of us here today can be present because we have to listen to so-called. The future ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106136	Thank you. Individual debates now, Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106137	I will continue where Sandra Bencic actually started in her presentation. She referred to the fact that today's assembly is empty, and here I am one of the few that have actually been from the beginning to the end of today's debate that doesn't really exist. If we talk about the first reading of two extremely important procedural laws, the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Prosecution, we can conclude that the parliamentary debate did not actually exist. The few MPs that appeared in the assembly came and went where the political more important battlefield was right now, and these are discussions on committees on future ministers that are more or less the same as they were before. Well, then there's no point in repeating something that's already been said because there are no MPs who should hear it. It doesn't even make any sense to draw any conclusions from the debate when, as I said, no one has discussed anything here today. But I hope, if nothing else, that the issues of amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure will be dealt with by the parent committees, and here is my special colleague, Jelkovac, counting on you. And I think, in fact, in every evil, someone good, so it's a good thing here first that this isn't really any judicial reform. Amendments and additions to the law will not even result in any greater damage, although improvements will not occur. And the other good thing is that we are actually nakeding the wider Croatian public how the assembly actually works and how much we have offended the work of both MPs and opposition, but also the parliamentary committees themselves. In particular, it is a practice of the Legislative Committee to give its last word, its amen to legislative amendment, to the day of the two most, and sometimes even on the very day when the law is discussed in the Croatian Parliament. Because the committee as well as most others has been painted a vessel of the parliamentary majority and does not give power to the representatives on that committee to think for themselves but rather do what the boss tells them to do. So don't do it this time. I've called you, but I've invited the minister here, and yet there's someone on his behalf here to analyze the report by the attorney general since 2014, and from 2015 on and to extract everything that was then suggested that the law was missing, and we haven't put these changes and additions into it. And if you can't do that, or if your party boss won't let you, then we'll give ourselves a hard time and at least give you a hint of what it says there. Without it, these are less than cosmetic changes that are of no use. What needs to be changed is architecture. And the same model I was talking about at the Law of Prosecution is also true here. It is necessary to establish better control of state attorneys by changing the institution of the State Judicial Council which cannot be drawn up as a body that is seen and collected only occasionally at sessions in which of the 11 members we have 2 academic staff and 2 parliamentary representatives. It is not a place for parliamentary representatives in the State Judicial Council to have the basic tasks of verifying the property cards of state lawyers, deciding on their strict responsibility and making decisions on choice, resolution or progress in calling. In the current Council of State Judges, who are they? Hasanbegovic and Ermina Lekai Prlaskaj, top experts for checking property cards and other obligations from the work of state lawyers. As long as we don't actually have something to discuss with her. And as far as the transparency of the work of the state's attorneys here is concerned, there's a slightly different situation with regard to court decisions. What is insufficiently transparent are tight procedures and firm decisions, and even decisions by ethical committees. We have an almost brutal situation relating to the former state's chief attorney who is suspended, where the Supreme Court has repeatedly returned the decision to the state's attorney's office because it was not well-founded enough, and now under suspension it holds Montenegro's education as instructed. and an EU order. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106138	Thank you very much. The first replica of Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106139	Thank you. Dear colleagues Oreshkovic, you are absolutely right when you say that there are some technical changes here that will not cause harm, it may speed things up a little bit, but that is not what the essence is and what our judiciary needs. But what I'd like to ask you is what's more scandalous to me, so here's what I'm told by the ruling last night and the Open that you've known for 10-15 days who's going to be the new ministers. Why didn't we have these committees on Monday and Tuesday so we could discuss these laws in a normal way, here we see there's no one in the assembly. And why in a hurry like this or it doesn't seem true that they already knew but that until the last minute it was waiting because no one wanted to go to the government, so here I would ask you to comment because there's no point in talking about these technical changes right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106140	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106141	Thank you, colleague, so I wouldn't want to speculate at all about what the government knew or didn't know and whether she had a problem selecting her staff. I am more interested in whether there is enough wisdom in this convocation of the Croatian Parliament to drive us out to clear the rules of the Rules of Procedure. And why do we even have rules that allow committee sessions to take place at the same time as plenary sessions to discuss laws. If anything has brought down our reputation, dignity, and then the constitutional role of the Croatian Parliament, it is the fact that our assembly is always, almost always this empty. Why is that? Who does that belong to? Well, that goes in favor of HDZ because this is what HS's work literally disgusts citizens and then they think we're all the same, and then they think what power to change at all, that's your reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106142	- Mrs. Crescent. It's a ben.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106143	Thank you. Well, fellow Members, no matter what technical changes are involved here in this case and in this case, both the CAP and the CFSP, and that, in fact, the introduction of technologies, which we have 20 years ago, could have been introduced, called judicial reform, although in this part of the criminal procedure, it is particularly sensitive are some things. I would like to ask you how you see what things are fundamental, fundamental, should be changed both in the CAP and in the CAP, and in order to preserve the principle of equality of the arms of the parties, while at the same time allowing for a really greater efficiency of the proceedings, a shorter duration of procedures and a more fair and uniform decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106144	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106145	Compared to the CAP, the possibility of the DORH to file complaints about the decision to return the indictment to the CAP is not so far up to the law itself as to some other mechanisms. If we are talking about the equality of weapons, then we need to deal with the issue of free legal aid and finally solve the problem of the attorney general, which is that we spend less than 4 million kuna on funding for free legal aid, which means that our citizens have the judiciary of those who are most sensitive, poorest, inaccessible, because they can't get to court at all, if they can't be adequately represented by lawyers, justice is an abstract, inaccessible and non-existent concept for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106146	Mr. Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106147	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, actually on the trail and what my colleague Bencic asked and what you were in response to her replica and started speaking in fact, I would ask you to expand that a little bit. Do you feel that the rights of some defendants, especially those who have a lower degree of digital literacy, such changes to the law are in fact in some way threatened in the process and do you think that there is room to fix it somehow? I'm asking you first of all, from your experience in the law firm that you had before you became a representative in the Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106148	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106149	Quite accidentally, quite certainly, it creates great concern, and I asked the minister to what extent they were involved in creating these changes, the representatives of the profession, we find them insufficient. If those less written defendants, digitally written, had accompanying mechanisms, there are lawyers, there are other people who help them in criminal proceedings, then we might be able to overcome this problem, but the bigger problem is that the same level of digitisation is not present in the transparency of judicial decisions, so what is a key issue and the problem of justice, it is an inequality of judicial practice and until we establish a public digital base of all judicial decisions that are searched and comparable according to key parameters, simply, all of this is one big farce.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106150	And you don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Nicole Grmoy's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106151	Here, good afternoon, all of you, dear vice president, dear colleagues and colleagues. I think that's what I said in the debate on behalf of the club, the judiciary is one of the most important topics actually in the Republic of Croatia and one resolution that deserves comprehensive and root changes and deserves actually a full assembly while we're discussing this issue, and we had a situation here, that this morning, the committees on which the new ministers were presented, while on the other hand, we have a conviction from the vice president of HS and HDZ MP Ante Sanader, that these ministers were known for some 20 days, that they knew from the beginning that this was not going to be any broader reconstruction, but a narrow reconstruction, although we all know that it was actually discussed and that it was planned, anyway, and last night the journalist told Mr. Sanader that he and HDZ talked about... And that he knows exactly what the government was planning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why did the government end up giving up a wider reconstruction, we can only, and here I agree with my colleague, just assume, but the fact is that it's obviously rare that anyone wants to enter this corrupt government. So look, a man who presents himself as a guarantee of stability, so Aleksandar Plenkovic, not this one, Andrej Plenkovic and Aleksandar Vukic, uh, they're all of their campaign, Plenkovic their past, Vukic based this one now in Serbia, based on political stability and what does this Plenkovic do as a guarantee of stability? He's causing early elections in Novska because no one wants to get into his government. So Piletic enters the government, early elections go, so that's where the man was elected by the people as mayor, he leaves it and this one goes to the government. All right, maybe they'll do more for themselves, but that concept of political stability, so it's giving up, there's no one, there's no one to join the government. He doesn't want Habian, he doesn't want a colleague Jelkovac, so no one wants to bond with this Plenkovic corrupt structure now, but everyone is talking to Anusic, Jandrokovic, who is already creating this new nomenclature within HDZ, so these are the problems in which Plenkovic's Government is presently located, but we must not, or Croatian citizens, suffer for it. No parliamentary deputies can get an opportunity to ask the candidates for ministers, and then it means to discuss these two essential laws. And as I said, here when we talk about this kind of mini reconstruction, it's actually about decriminalization of the government, that decriminalization of the government is not complete because total decriminalization of the government would be the only call for elections and going to new elections, so moving this Plenkovic corrupt structure. And despite the fact that this one part of the MPs is already moving away from him and is approaching this new HDZ current, it's not going to help them. Maybe this was the last chance. It's not nice to be a member of this government, but it may have been the last chance to be a member, including this kind of government. So I think that Piletic, Filipovic and this team have made some good decisions, they will do this mandate by the end because we all know that this ruling majority will certainly not fall. There are also new candidates who have been chipped. Some of them chipped decently. The shrub has been properly chipped. Comes a man on Fridays, raises his hand, doesn't create any show in Parliament. We have a colleague of HDZekanovic who decided to chip in one inappropriate way, where he demoted himself and the Croatian Parliament. But that's his choice. But what we will certainly do in the future is to present reform proposals on the very reform of the judiciary, and also to plete them when we are in a position to do so, which is soon. Time's coming, that's it. Thank you. There's a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106152	Now there will be replicas, it has to do with the law. Here you go, Mr. Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106153	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. They have something to do with my colleagues' argument, this replica at least. I can't agree with what you said. You said it gave up on the concept of stability, but it's actually not true because that stability was never there, it was just talked about. But it was an affair. Every once in a while, there's a minister, if you have to change every little bit, and you're trying, and you say I won't change, so you're still changing. I mean it's not stability, it's such a desired one stability that has never actually been realized. So that's one thing I can't agree with in your debate, and by all accounts, there won't be any further stability. Because here we are reading today for Mr Dragutin Filipovic, sorry about how this Filipovic is, in any case, being dragged after him by some affairs from the Croatian Forests while he was chairman of the Supervisory Board. So the question is whether it'll last longer than a black egg or a little less, we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106154	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106155	Look, now that we look at what the ministers of the Oreshkovic government were leaving for, you mentioned here is Minister Crnoj. We can say that this is the government that set the most ethical standards in Croatian politics at all. So here's to being realistic. The USKOK investigation had to take place here, the opposition's demand that Plenkovic go into some kind of change. When we talk about the concept of stability, of course, I don't mean that this Plenkovic government was without an affair, but I mean the firmness of the ruling majority, or the avoidance of any new elections and the sale of that story to citizens about the stability that is to be rewarded because it is necessary to face all these challenges that have fallen, he said on the occasion of Plenkovic, that his entire pot of Croatian transition has fallen to the table and that he must now deal with it as if we are responsible for this transition, not the party he runs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106156	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106157	I still have to refer to what you've been saying, and I'm going to be attached to the bill. So today there were two draft laws that I appreciate that are important regardless of the debate that was and we talked about technical changes. It's not common in this assembly for a resolute minister to come and be there. I have a feeling, I asked my colleague because I was gone, I was on the board where there was a presentation of the Minister's candidate, that the Resort Minister would be there. And our MPs weren't there why? Because the prime minister made it impossible for us to do our job, because he decided to represent candidates for new ministers, but how? It's on the schedule. He was half an hour. Half an hour on one committee, half an hour on the second and half hours on the third. So, it's not he who demeans our parliamentary representatives, it's just made it impossible for us to do our job the way we should do it, but for those candidates. Otherwise, it would be the turn of the Prime Minister all the time, this time it wasn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106158	Thank you very much. Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106159	Well, that's, uh, I don't know how to describe it. I don't know if I know this last game of Hajduk when Savic puts coach Hajduk on the attack because there's no one there. Not Simic, not Savic. Simica, Simica pushes into attack. Here's what I could compare it to. So, man doesn't play attack, but there's no one. So here and here. And apparently, the prime minister himself felt that these ministers didn't deserve any more time or attention. In addition, at this final cabinet session, he thanked those who were leaving more than he represented the new ones who were coming. So clearly this is a forced replacement, so when you don't have any I don't know or injuries, red charts. And here are the investigations, here are the investigations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106160	Thank you very much. Mr. Miletic, I hope he's not from basketball. [[Grmoya Intruder: Thank you Minister for the correction.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106161	I told my colleague Grumo this morning on the board, so Mr Filipovic that as a Christian I wish him every good at the work he does, that I think he will have to be very brave in view of many stakeholders. Well, don't let anyone blame me for the mob around the waste, the waste management, everything, that I want him to be honest and not end up like Coric. Because I think Ćoric is gone and gone because the BOOK is above him, not because here is the reconstruction. So I wish him really well, I don't have a problem with that. What I'd like to ask you is why today, two important laws are important. We have two boards, here's where I started one, and now I have to go as a member of the board to the other committee. This morning, the same two, three hours of discussion of this committee before. So why, at this time, when we like to be in the Croatian Parliament and when we like to talk here about particularly important laws. Do you think it's a coincidence or coincidence in the universe there are no, and from gesticulation, Mr. Radina's mime response is already known to the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106162	Excuse me, Mr. Miletić. Don't talk to me because it's not in the Rules of Procedure. Yeah, no, no, no, no, no, we're tolerance, we're tolerance. Let's move on. Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106163	My colleague Miletic, therefore I am also more and more of this so distasteful talk about all these affairs, I came to Sisak yesterday for a press conference and I even said, I got it over my mouth, but we don't even care about the people in Sisak and Banovina what Paladina was doing but to make that renewal. So, we came into such a situation that these huge affairs, then after me he took the word of his colleague Troscott says so the man damaged the pension funds, damaged our future pensioners, so we can't go through with it, but we really came into such a situation here's how you wanted this minister to make something for the citizens, so we're doing this affair almost daily. Here are yesterday the director of the agency in Osijek-Baranja County, city councilman of the HDZ, which is what almost daily we have the arrests of the investigation, the affair, and this more has become unbearable to talk about. Here we'd be happy with this government at least. We know she's corrupt but to do something. [[And thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106164	Mrs. Dalia, Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106165	Thank you, Chairman. A fellow Grmoy’s empty assembly certainly prevented some of the issues from being discussed, and one of the topics that would surely have been touched that the debate was a question of who all the people who helped in a very legal way in decriminalising this government. Among them is a former chief state attorney who is known to have ever rejected an investigation against members of the Borg group, deeming there absolutely nothing controversial. Although the formal legal solution was adopted by Deputy V.D. A HORSE without a name and the blessing of the attorney general would not be possible. But there is also a bigger problem than that, and that man is in the system all this time, that solutions that solve his status repeatedly from the court return to the retrial with the reason that they are not well written. Now, either we have state lawyers who don't know how to put something together and write it down. Right or we've got corrupt judges out there. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] where they shouldn't be. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106166	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106167	Well, unfortunately, I think it's both. So that there are also corruptions, that there are and they want this process to actually end in such a way that it is constantly rejected, that Drazen Jelenic returns to work. And it's scandalous at all that anyone here thinks about the Masons I don't think anything good, it's scandalous that someone can be a member of some secret organization and a top state attorney. So where else do you take your oath and some loyalty to that organization, protecting the secret organization, members of that organization, that's scandalous to me, and I don't know what's going on here. But it's not the only problem with our DORH, we have other problems. We have Bajic and we who retired, and then this one was admitted still has certain receipts, a question that benefits the benefits, etc. We need this DORH to shake well and I don't trust them too much this due to these few investigations against Plenkovic's ministers there will take a lot of one, a lot of one Stronger ventilation and ventilation. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106168	Thank you, no more replicas, no more replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106169	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106170	Mrs Dalia Oreskovic will now speak finally on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106171	Thank you. I'll ask you a business question. Can some new elements, some new parts, some new provisions be put into the law between the first and second readings, or can only be followed by those provisions that have already been contained in the amendment and supplementation proposal until the second reading. Namely, if you can't add everything I've talked about during the debate, and this is the problem that the state's chief attorneys have pointed at in their reports, then my proposal would be to simply withdraw this amendment and supplement and propose a new one. And also since the quality of the judiciary depends not only on the procedural laws, it depends on those material rules, depending on the conditions of our institutions' work when we are talking about the State's Attorney's Office, I ask that the number of people working in the system especially in the USKOK 33 judicial employees is a devastating fact for a country that is so soaked with corruption, and then all these infrastructure problems concerning inadequate buildings and other conditions, especially those that are damaged in the earthquake, must be solved as soon as possible. Ministers, these are the tasks ahead of you. You have two years left. I'm sorry you spent the first two on not doing anything at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106172	Yes, Mrs. Oreshkovic, this question you asked can't be for the minister, but I have to answer it and I would recommend it to you, since the question is yes and that, if this is not clear to the end, it is only clear that when we vote in the first reading, when we read, we first read, we say that we will take into account all the proposals of this and that but ask the question to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, they will give you the answer. Ms. Marija Jelkovic, Jelkovac, excuse me, club of HDZ representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106173	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Minister, Your Honor, Secretary of State, here's a special thank you for being here with us today. Indeed today we are discussing two procedural laws that are among the most important for the better functioning of the judiciary, and I think that these newspapers that have been proposed both in the CAP and in the CAP are not exactly cosmetical as it could have been here today by the opposition more than once, we could have heard. But those, though, are related to some technical changes that will primarily mean, in fact, the very different appearance of the debate tomorrow and the conduct of the proceedings themselves in the courtroom, and this will also contribute to the shorter duration of the debate and the acceleration of the proceedings, and will certainly affect the economicity of the proceedings. I think it is, however, one step in the judiciary, in modernising the justice system that is important for the Croatian judiciary in the future, and that is why these are not cosmetic changes. When this is talked about and how much it costs, I would say, not everything, sometimes really has to step up and a little bit bigger steps, I think right now is the moment for this, since the NPOO in the component of public administration, the judiciary and state property contains proposals of projects and reforms that are important for the modernisation of justice, I think that all of this, which is now proposed, and what it does is important and that right now is the moment when we need to do it and use that possibility because the question is if we don't, if we don't do it now, we have a chance to do it again. What I would also say, as far as the CAP is concerned, it was brought in 2008, although we can hear it even now that many in the judiciary call it the new CAP, although it has been in use for quite a long time. In fact, it came into full effect only on 1 September 2011, one part of the provisions entered into force on 1 January 2009, one part of the provisions entered into force on 1 July 2009, but only on 1 September 2011. What is significant and why we actually had to go to changes in the CAP because of this technical modernisation, it is, in fact, an intervention in those provisions concerning the introduction of e-communications relating to both the delivery of submissions and all that concerns the communication between the parties themselves in the process. What's important is to introduce an e-communication obligation for public authorities, for lawyers, and I think that's important. As for the introduction of the tone record, i.e. the obligation of the tone record, I think it is good, that it will also affect the shortening of the duration of the debate and also enable the parties to better monitor the process. What is important is that the President of the Council himself will be able to decide that these tones are prescribed in those situations where he considers it necessary and justified. I personally believe that in the time in which we live, it is really necessary to go to these steps of modernising and applying these technological achievements that we now have in the judiciary and I really think that all of this will contribute to a better and more effective judiciary. What I would finally just look back on, and it is about what my colleague Oreskovic called me practically by name as president of the Legislative Committee, a respected colleague, that I must say as chairman of the Committee, that I believe that the Committee, within the limits of its competences prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, is truly fulfilling all its obligations, as it will continue to do both in time and consciously, our responsibilities of the Committee are those that are prescribed and we strictly adhere to it. I thank all the members of the Committee who attend the sessions And they're working on the sessions, and I think we'll do it in the future. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106174	We're doing our job together. Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State. We are going to the next item of the agenda: - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission; on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Drazen Bošnjakovic, representative at HS. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? - Mrs. Crescent. Nikolina Barisic, Baradic, excuse me, Commissioner.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106177	I thank the vice president of HS. At the 24th e-session held on 21 April 2022, the mandate committee of HS discussed the requests of the subsidiary prosecutor Josip Vujčić addressed to the president of HS for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Drazen Bošnjakovic, a representative in HS for the prolonged criminal offences of abuse of position and powers under Article. 291 century 1 Penal Code, trade in influence from art. 295 KZ, preventing proof from being found in art. 306 KZ, criminal association of art. 328th century 4th KZ, committing a crime in the form of a criminal association of art. 329 KZ, fraud of art. 236. KZ, assist the perpetrators after committing a crime of art. 303 KZs, arrangements for the initiation of a criminal offence in art. 327 KZ, High Issues of Art. 340 KZ, preparation of criminal offences against the Republic of Croatia. 350, and in respect of art. 340 KZs. The commission found that the DORH, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, is a business solution. No. Kp-Us-298/2021 of 16 August 2021 pursuant to the provision of Art. 206 ct. 1 st. 5 The Code of Criminal Procedure rejected the criminal application of Josip Vujčić against MP Drazen Bošnjakovic. The Commission shall, on the basis of the provision of the Article, 116 Rules of Procedure unanimously, 8 votes in favour, proposes to the HS to take the following decision: During the term of the parliamentary term, the approvals for the launch of criminal proceedings against MP Drazen Bošnjakovic, at the request of the subsidiary prosecutor Josip Vujčić, for the lengthy criminal offences of abuse of office and powers under Article. 291th century 1 KZ, trade of influence from art. 295 KZ, preventing proof from being found in art. 306 KZ, criminal association of art. 328th century 4th KZ, committing a crime in the form of a criminal association of art. 329 KZ, fraud of art. 236 KZ, assist the perpetrators after the offence of art. 303 KZs, arrangements for the initiation of a criminal offence in art. 327 KZ, High Issues of Art. 340 KZ, preparation of criminal offences against the Republic of Croatia. 350, and in respect of art. 340 KZs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-04-28-0.u106178	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. I am closing the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met and now until 13 o'clock breaks because at 13 o'clock we have the usual and we will have today's position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. It's 12:45.
