ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u102942	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Mario Kapulica, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u102943	A colleague, Rasdic, said NATO summit participants discovered hot water yesterday in Madrid. The real news is that Zoran Milanovic and those who support him in his policy yesterday in Madrid discovered cold water. However, regardless of this, yesterday's NATO summit has made important decisions for the future and security, concerns remain, threats have not been completely removed but the main message of the alliance is strong, firm and determined to respond to all existing and assumed challenges. And it is good, it is very good that Croatia did not jump out of the rails yesterday, that it contributed and supported the rise of new members and the new strategic concept of this defence alliance. And it is good that the President of the Republic has joined Finland and Sweden in joining the alliance, which he has recently disputed. But looking at the communication he brings to public space, politics, inter-human, inter-state relations, and his statements yesterday on court crazys, unfortunately, it is clear that even after Madrid, there will be no change in that policy. Thanks to such an approach at the NATO Alliance summit by his choice, only by choosing Zoran Milanovic was not the president of a state that respects his government, was he not even the leader of the SDP because the SDP was already in early May supporting decisions taken yesterday in Madrid. He was neither the hero of the Croats in BiH, who has now clearly used it as an alibi in these very serious times for his efforts to bring into NATO an alliance that wants to send a message to the community. In the end, only a very special and unpredictable man remains, and at the end of the day, an inconsistencies man. And that role was not imposed on him, alone, he chose it himself. In the end, at least temporarily gave up bringing divisions among NATO allies, he gave up opposition to its expansion and personally urged new members to join him and thus betrayed and sold for their own Croatian arches in BiH, and we don't know what he won in return. I expected the MOST colleagues to talk about it, ask that question. He left the Croats in BiH who followed what he said at the mercy of the high international representative who told him what was going on. He delivered them to the mercy and mercy of many more Bosniaks to whom he told them what was going on. He helped Izetbegovic and the party of the Democratic Action to dig into their position but told them what they belonged to. And in the end, he left them at the mercy and mercy of those in the international community who he claims to be unclear, that they didn't understand anything, that he called out all the time but at the end of the day he didn't show them or tell them what was going on. So if there were no court freaks at the summit from the government who would do stunts, juggle and use all kinds of tricks to match the point of the Croats' problem in BiH to those gathered on other topics, however, there was an excess in the eyes of our President of the Castle Crazy. The court fool was Klicko, the mayor of Kiev, for sure when he listened to him he took his head off because he had just two days before the first attack on Kiev declared Moscow's hall. He was probably listening to other castle lunatics who talked there about nothing caused by Russian aggression against Ukraine that he cared about and justified incessantly. The case of the US president who spoke of increasing the NATO alliance's strength has been silent, even though he tells us it's a foolish and needless tossing finger around a Russian bear, he listened to the union's chief secretary, who spoke of several armies, more military equipment. He did not say that Croatia will not give any soldiers, he will tell us that when he returns to Croatia, where he could talk about it yesterday, he said about it. And that's the answer to this question, couldn't Croatia have been more. I thought my colleague Rasdic would ask the question, could Zoran Milanovic not have asked more than he said. More than having Finland and Sweden call after announcing the ultimatum and saying they meet high criteria to imitate them. After much lamentation over the past months, that part of the Croatian people in BiH who believed him, who enjoyed listening to what he was saying, Issuing a single national corpus radio and naively believed in a simplified [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] The image of the world remained [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] deeply disappointed and... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u102944	Thank you very much. Let's not, let's stick to the time, please. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the honourable representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103185	Two things marked the current NATO summit in Madrid. The first thing is the epochal discovery of hot water. They discovered hot water in Madrid. The leaders of 30 member states have adopted a new strategic concept for the next 10 years, which defines the security challenges facing the alliance, and Russia is defined as, I quote, the greatest and direct threat to the security of allies and to the peace and security of the Euro-Atlantic area. Can you imagine? Nearly half a year since the attack on Ukraine, which states directly helped billions of dollars in money and weapons, had to spend three days on taxpayers of NATO member states and incoduce the Spanish royal family to conclude that Russia today is the greatest direct threat to security allies. If they hadn't made that clear, they might have thought it was Switzerland or the Vatican or San Marino. NATO's second major news summit is the valuable and political capitulation of Finland and Sweden ahead of Erdogan's demands. Unlike the shameful cover-up of truth by most of our media who bring headlines such as "Turkey gave in" the truth, it is true that Turkey has received everything it asked for, which is witnessed by the text of a memorandum it signed with Sweden and Finland, which clearly states that people to whom the countries had given refuge until yesterday as persecuted opposition in exchange for raising Turkey's blockade of NATO entry and handing them over to Turkey. The first point is that I quote, Finland and Sweden will not support the PKK and FETO, and Turkey will provide full support to countries in battle with threats to their national security. Finland and Sweden agreed that terrorism in all its forms and manifestations would be strongly condemned, a quote concluded. The following is said in point 5, I quote, Finland and Sweden will quickly and thoroughly address Turkey's requests for deportation or extradition of terrorist suspects, taking into account information, evidence and intelligence provided by Ankara, a final quote. How they were enlightened overnight and realized that the same people who had been sheltered by yesterday as persecuted opposition today had become terrorists who would hand over to Turkey. Finland and Sweden could at least choose within the agreement to shoot them themselves in Finland and Sweden instead of handing them over to the torments and silk gaitan. Well, couldn't Croatia also make its request compared to the Turkish demand. Let's say Turkey is 30 times more important than Croatia, what Turkey has sought and received, not 30 times as much as 530 times as what Croatia should have asked for, and that is just to respect a peace agreement whose Croatian co-signator and guarantor, a constitution defined by it and to respect the decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court, nothing more. Instead, he assures us of some silent continued work of Plenković and Grlic Radman, and no one has seen any result or shift from this work, so we can reasonably suspect that there is anything in the first place. It's like that emperor's non-existent new tunic everyone admires, and no one sees it, where are these results of Plenkovic's work for the Croats and their equality in BiH? The last chance to do something for the equality of Croats in BiH was a recent decision by the European Council on granting candidate countries to Ukraine and Moldova, which skipped BiH. Unlike conditioning Finland and Sweden's entry into NATO, giving the candidate country's status would be a proactive move, giving hope, carrots to truth from a distant stick, but which could at least encourage the pro-European forces among Bosniaks to reach an agreement with Croats. It is a shame for Croatia that the status for BiH has been sought by Slovenia, but not by a Brussels deputy in Croatia who unnecessarily implements the directives and is obsessively careful not to spoil his average in the Brussels run for his future career. At the NATO summit, there was no word about how a MiG-sized aircraft flew over the skies of several NATO member states an hour ago, that no one had responded and that the aircraft had fallen in the middle of Zagreb and miraculously did not kill anyone, and Stoltenberg said it had fallen out of town and no one had responded. We don't know if anything was done to patch up those defense holes in the sky protection system and if anyone was responsible for it, but about that, some of the other 29 countries' heads have been broken off, we've been removing the national currency and the possibility of border control towards the northwest, and since New Year's Eve, it's going to be a new honey and milk almost as abundant as it was in 2013 since we lost only 1/10 of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103186	Dear MPs and MPs, yesterday I was on a TV interview where I was asked about the reasons why I didn't agree to those calls from the HDZ for constitutional amendments, so I replied that one of the reasons I object to the extra-institutional action of the HDZ, and then the journalist asked me a little in infidelity, so where could the talks on the necessary amendments to the constitution be held in the first place? This reaction prompted me to this free speech because I actually realized that we, as a society to this extent, have demoted HS as the most important institution, as a constitutionalist, and not only as a legislative body that we no longer understand the concept that the state should actually function and which means the elevation of the state and its state bodies and institutions. I replied to the journalist that there are the home working bodies in the assembly, so on and so on, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system responsible for monitoring and considering the implementation of the Republic of Croatia's Constitution, to consider the principles of harmonisation of legislation with the Constitution, to consider all other issues of constitutional changes, ways of protecting the implementation of the Constitution of guaranteed rights, etc., but nobody thinks that through such a parent body is inciting discussion in HS because HS has been demoted and there is no room for any political debates, especially those of the highest weight, but there is a place where empty monologues are held for this speaker as a rule. And why is that, and why does HDZ insist on calling for these in the halls, rooms and towers of debate? Because there has been this identification of HDZ and the state, HDZ has a mental sculpture of states that is me, it is discussing political issues where HDZ is, and not where the state bodies and the right to change are, the real change that Croatia needs is the change of that mental set. That separation, the separation of this identity of a political party that at some point holds power with the notion of state as such. So this concept of separation of the political party from the state is so foreign to HDZ, so inconceivable that it is so strongly opposed. For them, this concept would mean the end of their identity, the end of their purpose, probably their existence. And that's why HDZ is so opposed to bringing up civic education. HDZ does not want our young generations to learn the notion of a civil state, it does not want young people to understand what it means, it does not want citizens who want good governance, who will want the authority that accounts for it, the HDZ does not want it. And that's why she sees her greatest threat in that concept and the greatest danger even though she's not there. Civil education is exactly what Croatia needs to have citizens because only citizens have a state that serves them, not political parties and political oligarchs, inherited from those previous dark, rotten times. Citizens do not agree to patriots who hold one hand in their hearts while playing anthem, and with the other, they take away and steal from public budgets. This is the essence of HDZ's false, corruptive and narcissistic action. And that is the struggle of all the new progressive forces to change the basic concept of the basic DNA of the state as such and its inhabitants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103265	Now there will be a Club of Green-Left bloc MP Ivana Kekin speaking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103266	Thank you. So two days ago, a small sports aircraft of Cesna crashed in Brač with two passengers and a pilot who fortunately survived and were transferred to a hospital in Split. Rescue succeeded thanks to the sacrifice and readiness of the HGSS and firefighters whose demanding action became even more demanding at the moment when an unknown person decided to recall a helicopter headed for the crash site. So when a situation like this occurs or in general some other medical emergency that is not easily available, then the center 112 or HGSS is looking for an intervention and then a helicopter from 93 is sent. Croatian Air Force Base in Zemunik. Since this case was the case of a plane crash, the call was made by the HGSS, but according to Chief Josip Granic, so the HGSS chief decided that a helicopter that had already flown to Brac and was halfway back to the base, so 15 minutes after takeoff. Josip Granic argues that such a thing has never happened, and that it is also completely unclear who called off the said helicopter and why. Namely, the on-call team of the Divulj Mountain Service itself, in co-ordination with the Croatian Air Force, immediately flew with stretches and baskets with which they were to be injured, but were returned, which means that the firefighters were literally carrying them, and then they were driving to the helipad. This lost valuable time, and what it was like to get people out of such an inaccessible terrain not to move. So, it's been two days since we've heard who he is and why he made the decision to return the plane. The HGSS doesn't know the answer to that question, neither does the fire department. In principle, in such cases, coordination and search management are led by the Civil Protection Directorate of the MUP, so at least they should give some answers. What we know is that decisions on a military helicopter are being made by the military or the Ministry of Defence, and only yesterday did the Ministry of Defence address the public with a brief statement saying that Defence Minister Mario Banozic has ordered an investigation or asked the defence inspector to determine whether the procedures prescribed were respected in the rescue process. I mean, obviously, they didn't, since the helicopter came back, but we'll see what Minister Banozic finds out. While we are waiting for the answers of the silent Minister Banozic, we could also remind ourselves that Croatia still does not have an emergency helicopter medical service that should actually hand out cases like this, so let's see the numbers, so 23,000 dead of heart and strokes per year, almost 300 dead, 2,700 severely injured in traffic. At the same time, we know that medically it has been demonstrated that life-threatening and severely injured persons are being transported to an institution that can take care of them within 60 minutes of the moment of the threat have a great chance of surviving or avoiding disability. So it's a medical gold watch that also makes countries that have better transport infrastructures, less divorced, have fewer islands, etc. They've established an emergency medical helicopter service. Croatia unfortunately still does not, although a successful pilot project was implemented in 2015, which made it quite clear how many benefits such service was set up. Human lives certainly do not have a price, but they could also say that when you raise a military helicopter like the one that flew for 15 minutes and returned, so the flight of a military helicopter is 52,000 kuna an hour while the flight of a medical helicopter is 22,000 kuna. You also have calculations to make it clear that the country with an emergency helicopter service is significantly less spent on the treatment and recovery of patients who were sent to medical institutions on time. So, from the above, it remains completely unclear why emergency medical services helicopters in Croatia remain unflighted, so it would be good if, apart from Minister Banozic, some answers to the public that Minister Beros either answers or an even better resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103354	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns will speak the esteemed representative Marko Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103355	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. On the eve of the paragraph, during March, Russian Orthodox Church chief Patriarch Kiril touched Russian aggression on Ukraine and began to justify the invasion of the sovereign country. He explained that Russia's aggression was a metaphysical fight against evil, continued to justify war crimes, killing and terrorising the Ukrainian people by fighting against the image of Western evil. In other words, the Russian conquest war and killing justify the defense of value. The question raised by itself is what kind of organization can justify defending the value of evil. The answer is clear to God's no, but political yes. In 2012, this same patriarch Kiril claimed that Vladimir Putin was a miracle of God and thus placed a Mosk patriarchy at the disposal of Putin as a means for his great Russian ideas. This is actually a tried-out political concert that we witnessed during the Homeland War from our eastern neighbours, or our brothers, as they liked to call us. But their brotherly love disappeared at the time when the Croatian people decided that they wanted to make a sovereign, independent, and free decision about their fate and the fate of their homeland just like Ukraine and the Ukrainians. The political connection of the Serbian Orthodox Church, i.e. the Russian Orthodox Church with authority, is no discovery and no one should be surprised. But we should be surprised at the Bishop's Commission of the Croatian Bishopial Conference for Ecumenism, which in May organised a meeting with Bishop Jovan Culibrko and who decided to take care of Ukrainian refugees in Croatia regardless of which Orthodox jurisdiction they belong in Ukraine should be cared for by SPC and Jovan Culibrk. Jovan Chulibrck, who writes in his biography that during the Homeland War he is an officer from... 63. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Nis parachute brigade, which was named in the people's special forces, fought in the most difficult areas among which we can place the town of Pakrac. Jovan Culibrk, who under the auspices of the secret in 2014 in Pakrac, was enthroned in front of senior officials such as then the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Ivica Dacic and the president of the Serbian province, Republika Srpska pardon and the coalition partner of the HDZ, Milorad Dodik. It is scandalous and embarrassing to leave the spiritual care of Ukrainian refugees to the Serbian Orthodox Church, which is fully in line with the goals of the Russian Orthodox Church, and hence the Russian authorities. And it is even more devastating when we know that the Russian Orthodox Church is through its branch called the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, which has absolutely nothing to do with the autokephan Orthodox Church of Ukraine, sent by Andrej Ivanenko to Croatia with the aim of caring for the spiritual needs of Ukrainian refugees. In other words, the Ukrainians who escaped from the great Russian aggression and propaganda in Croatia were under the care of Serbs and Russians who were involved in the policies they fled from. It should not even be forgotten about the report by the European Parliament's special committee on external interference in democratic processes, including misinformation that assessed the Russian and Serbian Orthodox churches as a remethylative factor. Article 131 of the Report states: “It is noted that foreign interference can also be exercised through influence in religious institutions and their instrumentalisation. As the Russian influence in Orthodox churches is especially in Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially in its entity Republika Srpska, Georgia and Ukraine, among others, by sowing seeds of discord among locals, developing biased writing of history." The question is what awaits the Croatian government, a great friend of Ukraine and Ukrainians? Why do they let Russia play like this in Croatia? Why don't they deal with usurperers in their own country? The answer to these three questions we all know. Most do not want to say it, but we can also sum it up with the amended lyrics of the Serbian song and say "No one has what the Serbian has the vice president of the Croatian government".
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103453	In the name of the House Movement Representatives Club, the esteemed representative Ante Prkacin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103454	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, after I've been on several occasions behind this Assembly pay phone, so-called To Croatian anti-fascists he pointed out and proved first that the so-called, secondly that they are superficial, thirdly ignorant, fourthly false. I meant to stop talking about it. However, the recent appearance of three leaders of this Croatian state on a strange date from our Catholic Croatian calendar, so to speak. The day of the anti-fascist struggle, I'm still tempted to change my mind and talk. So, what is this misery, what is it that Croatian peoples and Croatian states? We celebrate or only celebrate or tolerate that someone celebrates the birthday of those who, through Croatian history, have caused the biggest harm to the Croatian people through Croatian history. I'm telling you because history knows that in 170-80 years of Turkish residence in Slavonia in this part of Croatia and 400 years in BiH, the Turks killed fewer people in these, in those centuries than Broz's partisans in 15 days on the 5th month of '45. A year. They are not only murderers and bandits, they are the national traitors that have not appeared through Croatian history. So-called The anti-fascists will gladly answer me in a way that will say that NDH and its army, etc., but they will speak where I am not. They can't prove it because they were telling stories about 30,000 and 40,000 victims in Jadovna, they went down to no one. About Jasenovac not telling stories. Wherever he is buried, he suspects that Broz killed someone and liquidated is 5, 10 or 50 times more than expected. So today to support those who, who celebrate this vampire ball, who actually celebrate Tito's partisans the most vicious and traitorous army in history. It's throwing salt at the wound of a Croatian national being, it's a joke, it's a wrinkling of the spirit of Croatian victims and slaves today just like Broz's bandits did in '45. A year. And these so-called. The antifascists honor them with a party or a party, and the Croatian state supports it. So, as for these three, four obscenity types led there by a Habulin who doesn't know what it's called like Stipe Mesic or that fat, fat mammal mayor, I don't really care about either one or the other, but I'm interested in the reaction of the Croatian authorities. Although our leaders are much calmer that the Dalmatians would say they've been puzzling, that rhetoric has been tempered. But you know why? Because we've broken their minds with stories, I'm not just telling stories, but thousands of Croats are talking, if Broz was an anti-fascist who didn't go to war right away when the war started, which he was, what he was waiting for when the Soviet Union was attacked to go to war. They figured it out, so they changed the rhetoric a little bit. However, it should have been diametrically opposed. The subject of their interest should not have been 30 kilometers from Zagreb southeastern Bezovica but 30 kilometers northwest of the Jazovka cave. She's a picture and an opportunity for the Partisan movement. If there's time, I'll tell you two more words. From the text of a bright young man, a 20-year-old who talked about a war in the former Yugoslavia. A smart child said simply anti-fascist fascist war was only the first 10-15 days when the Yugoslav army resisted Hitler, after which it turned into a civil war when Broz entered the war after the 22.6. civil war was heightened, and he threw one of his specialties into a brother-killing war because if it hadn't been for Broza, the Croats and Croats would not have slaughtered the Ustasha Partisans or slaughtered Serbs and Serbs on the hand of the Partisans. It's his office.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103455	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103456	You speeded me up for two, three seconds, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103457	Now, we've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and the first plate has been lifted by a respected representative named Kekin. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103458	Thank you. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 238. I mean, if you've already stopped everything Mr. Pracacin said, I'd ask you to act as vice president when other public figures and women in Croatia call it fat and fat for the Assembly speaker. If you think it's appropriate, it's really problematic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103459	My colleagues Kekin you know that taking a stand is actually saying a lot of things and people say a lot of things that I don't personally disagree with, I don't react to it because it's just that, it's kind of like it used to be in London Hyde Park Corner where you can speak freely and things that others don't like, including me. Maybe some things don't like what someone's saying here, I've never responded or responded to it, but it wasn't the custom to react directly if they didn't directly insult someone in accordance with exactly the article you called on. Therefore, it was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure I must give you a warning. Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103460	The Rules of Procedure have been injured in several articles, but certainly in 238, therefore, and by your side now in this explanation, not only by fellow Prickins. So your job is really to maintain some level of debate in this parliamentary high house, and objectifying women in the way that you did everything else ignore what was being said against the constitution is the minimum, the minimum under which you can't go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103461	Thank you very much. And of course it was a replica. And let me be very clear, so you are referring to an article that does not talk about whether or not you like what your colleague Prkachin was saying is not really the content of that article. So, I repeat, often in free speech, things are said that I personally agree with, or I personally disagree, I can't and can't react unless this article really hurts. And read in detail what this article says, so you will see that this is not really a matter of some sort of agreement or disagreement with the speaker. Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103462	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. I'm going to appeal to an article, too. 238. I respect what you're saying in this article, but if anything else should be a reminder to all your colleagues, now, of course, of course, to a fellow Pracchin who's had an expression, I'm not going into any ideological differences at all, but really, you should keep an eye on and not insult people in this way that he said about a fellow fat fat fat guy. I mean, we could label many of our colleagues in any way, so we don't, so please let it be a lesson for everyone to express themselves a little bit more politely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103463	Thank you. I need a replica of her you know yourself that I have to give a warning. But I agree to appeal to all of us, but to all of us to stick to a certain level. However, I cannot have and will not have different criteria for one, and different criteria for the other. That's not what I'm gonna have. So when some people here from this pay phone say they're other thieves, criminals, etc. Then it's okay, and the second time it's wrong. We can't. We have to or from this pay phone can be especially when we're taking a stand, I don't talk about certain points, talk freely, and the level of it to anyone who speaks. This is the responsibility of the one who speaks and speaks and what he says and the way he says and how acceptable it is, and how unacceptable it is. I personally always advocate to speak on one level that this home deserves and which this home really requires. But I repeat, the criteria are equal and must be equal for everyone. My colleague Peovic, you've also picked up the plate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103464	Yeah, so I've done some damage to my rules of procedure so that I can tell you and what I can really say and a little bit more scrupulously that I'm teaching you the rules of procedure since this is my first term of office, but... In 240 he says, the MP will be given a reminder by taking away the word if it means calling for violence or hatred or when insulting sex, gender and other groups, meaning art. The 240th Chairman, you have absolutely every right, and you have the obligation to actually react and to warn a representative who calls a woman a fat person and similar fat and similar objectification here uses for his...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103465	Thank you. I also let you exceed the time, I'll repeat what I said, I think we should all stick here in this home of an appropriate level because if we don't stick to ourselves, we're tearing down our own reputation. But that's true for everyone, that's true for everyone, and I absolutely don't think that you can and must distinguish your relationship with them, so if you want to and whether someone is male, someone who is a woman, etc. We must treat everyone adequately both in an appropriate manner and in a manner, especially in this home, especially in this home. This esteemed representative, Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103466	Thank you. So in 238, I think I'll do it again, so you've found that it's okay that these speakers are women in the Croatian public space to comment on their physical appearance in an offensive way. I agree with you that you should have the same criteria, and when I comment on this speaker and comment that Mr. Pracchin is fat or fat, I will also deserve a reminder. But I would like to really establish here for the general public that the vice president of the Croatian Parliament considers it appropriate...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103467	Thank you, thank you very much, you've exceeded your time...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103468	...to be told at the pay phone about women being fat and fat.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103469	...you've exceeded your time and thus also violated the Rules of Procedure. Of course, this was the same replica, so you get the same as your colleague Peovic, and I certainly never think of any woman. I assure you deeply, and I would never say that about any woman, not a single man, and I never will, and I will never say that. If you're asking me about my personal opinion. It's very clear. But let's be serious, and let's go this way. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Boris Milosevic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103530	Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. I would use this free speech to say a few words and get to know HS, but also the public about a positive sporting event and not only about a sporting event he is certainly more than that, but unfortunately before that topic I must say a few words and actually react to the slanders and lies that attacked Vladika Jovan Episcopal, who has since 2014 been the head of the papara-Slavonian diocese that is insinuated that he as a specialist participated in the war in Croatia and that he attacked Pakrac. I mean, it's common knowledge when Mr. i.e. Bishop John went under parachute training and somehow became a paratrooper as a priest in the army of the Republic of Serbia. So now let me go back to this topic that I wanted to talk about. So, the first congratulations to Croatia's team for standing in the semifinals of the World Water polo Championship in fair and sports struggle, a victory against strong Serbia was achieved, and Serbian representatives sportily suffered defeat, congratulated and wished for Croatia's happiness in the further competition. But I didn't answer to talk about water polo. I answered about football. In the fields of southern Austria, 4 in a row of Europeadas is held or the European Cup of Autochtonic National Minorities organised by the FUEN organisation, which gathers national minorities from the price of Europe at European level. So the idea came from the need to make minorities and FUEN as their roof organization visible and to draw attention to Europe's linguistic and cultural wealth. Although UEFA is not an organizer and has nothing to do with the UEFA president himself, I supported the event and announced cooperation in the coming years. Europeada itself is actually more than football, shows what European cultural diversity can offer and represents inclusiveness and tolerance against discrimination. This year, the people of Koruški Slovenes hosted, so football is played in the fields of Koruška in areas where Slovenes live as minorities and where bilingualism is in force, in use is Slovenian and German. We have a men's and women's tournament. 20 teams are competing in the men's part of the tournament, and the team of Serbs from Croatia and Croats from Serbia are also competing. The competition today enters the final stage and both teams have moved on. There's a quarterfinal game playing today. So even though there are political thorns and tensions between these two teams, there is only socialism, joy, solidarity and sports rivalry. These two teams traveled together to Austria, shared the same hotel and yesterday at a team presentation which, which perform today at the quarterfinals, together they presented themselves as the only of all teams they performed together in their presentation while all the other teams presented themselves separately. I think that at this time when we have examples of hate speech, political tension, flag-removing and commenting situations, justifying such procedures that it is important to highlight positive stories. For Serbs from Croatia, this is important in view of the numerous problems that were at the beginning of the formation of the team and the pain when it was only important to form the team, to succeed in connecting Serbs from different parts of Croatia, to contain sports and social content in smaller environments. Now, after six years, we're also thinking about achieving sports results. Good luck today and I want to win and pass the team of Serbs in Croatia, as well as Croatians from Serbia. Here, good luck.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103531	Thank you very much. That's what we're done with the club and the MPs. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, Boška Ban Vlahek will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103584	Thank you. I will use my free speech for a little more joyous subject, or I would point out that I am immensely proud of the great recognition that comes from the area where I come from, and that is my Međimurje. Međimurje Cekers have officially entered the register of cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia as an immaterial cultural good. The news is that not recently, more precisely on June 17th, it made all of Međimurje's inhabitants very proud of us. Ceker is a unique handiwork that is once again becoming an inescapable use object and a unique modern souvenir. The basic material for making hammers is we all know the corny blend and valuable hands and ideas of women who try to preserve the cultural heritage of Međimurje. The neighbor is one resource that costs nothing. The neighbor's country gave it away, the neighbor's an ecology, the neighbor's tradition and heritage so it won't be forgotten. This valuable souvenir is traditionally made by the folk artists of the Međimurje region. The hammers that make up our rural landscapes, the work of rural women, artists, natural ecological material and centuries-old tradition are built on. A hammering or a hammer depends on where you come from is usually a job that has been done through history by women in Međimurje in order to earn more money for the household. Although the checker used to go to the market only, this traditional Međimurje item today was a fashion detail seen in all occasions and became a companion of fashion and environmental awareness. Cekers were regularly made in the evenings when groups of braiders from the neighborhood gathered together, with work talking, singing, teaching younger about all aspects of life, and making hammers. So far, this art has been preserved by skill bearers, or in this case by bearers. They are braids that still make checkers or hammers today and imaginatively decorate them but also transfer this precious knowledge to new generations. The transfer of the art of making objects from the neighbor also preserves language expressions that are slowly lost, cutlery for the neighbor, peelers for the job of saving corn, stakes and berries for the basic forms of forming the mixture, chewing for the process of sulfuring or bleaching the hammers and the checker as a language curiosity in small places of Međimurje. Like a lot of other jobs, tampering was common, so rarely did anyone notice how it was done, why, of which materials, made sketches or any fine art. Once an exclusively useful object of bloom came into life in the mid - 20th century to be replaced soon by cheap synthetic materials. Thank God he came back with style and thanks to LAG Međimurska Doll, he became immaterial culturally well-being. Everything we know about the making of a hammer comes from just a few books of contemporary ethnographs and oral expressions of women who still make hammers. Therefore, the process of candidateing for inclusion in the list of cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia in the category of non-material goods has been launched, so this product has been awarded a well-deserved recognition which is the basis and added value for a number of planned projects related to the immaterial cultural heritage of Međimurje. Protection is only the first step in the evaluation of this traditional art, and it is necessary to continue to work intensively to raise awareness of the local population of the value of the checkers that cannot and must no longer be considered simply a mere useful object that serves to carry things but is a valuable souvenir and unique handiwork of Međimurje. I thank this occasion for the initiative of the Local Action Group Međimurska doli and brigi and for the guardians and skills, members of the Association of Women Nedelisce, Association of Women Puscina and the Cultural Art Association of the Seljačka sloga Nedelisce. This traditional object has become a recognizable Međimurje brand. It is proof that traditional values should be preserved from oblivion and shown to the world, especially to young generations. This protection of a cultural good checker is not only a souvenir in the Mediterranean tradition but is above all a respect for worthy guardians and keepers of tradition. So I call on our government, our ministries, your respected colleagues when you buy gifts for your guests to engage in the preservation of the value of Međimurje's own production especially of traditional souvenirs and handicrafts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103667	However, this let's be serious and let's move on to taking a stand so that on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Workers of the Front, the respected representative Katarina Peović will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u103668	I'm going to use it for a few minutes or seconds to say that you might not say that we're fat and fat, but you just warned us that we're not serious about a serious man standing here in this central position, and he's giving us lessons. But, well, talk a lot about this high house. Today, I wanted to talk to you about a case where today, which is very much being talked about in public, means the annulment of Roe v Vada's decision, which for 50 years in America, has allowed women at federal level to have an abortion. There have been several comments in the public and commentators who have claimed that hysteria should not be raised, that there will be no ban on abortions in Croatia and that it really should not be exaggerated in the evaluations that such a thing could happen in Croatia, but I will warn you that what happened in America was also not so easy to predict and it was not easy to solve. So this decision, which happened almost, and even with a single dose of coincidence, is based on some estimates in as many as 26 states of American women in a position to lose the right to legal abortion, 26 states mean in America. This decision automatically put an abortion in the area of illegal by some estimates of 13 states in America because from a federal level it fell to the state level and the state laws of certain means the components consider abortion illegal. But more than that means the Workers' Front since 2018 warns that it is important to return the abortion to the Constitution and in order to give a clear message what this woman's right actually means. And I'll remind you that France now intends to introduce for the first time these days the right to abortion in the Constitution even though it never had one, although there is also no real danger in France that abortion is forbidden, but it is a clear statement of solidarity, a statement of law, a statement of the meaning of women's rights that is inalienable. It should also be said that restoring the right to abortion in our Constitution means truly restoring that right and it should be recalled that this right that was entered into the Constitution in 1974 was an exceptional progressive right which at that time did not have any developed countries, meaning Western democracies and only now introduce that right. In order to be sure, it is indeed the right of a woman to return to the Constitution, and the other thing that is important to mention is often the simplification of this subject in public and the transfer of complete, complete criticism for de facto denying the right to abortion in Croatia, regardless of what the right is legally regulated and legal women inalienable. By the way, the law that determines this was just attached to this article of the Constitution and was created in '78. in response to the '74 Constitution article. And on that day, he provides women with the right to abortion. So to be aware of the context in which this right is being threatened, it should also be said that it is not just the result of an unpreserved revolution to say so, is it? It's not the worst bad guy that Batarello or let's say Bartulica means in a assembly that thinks it's the right of women to be taken away, but it's really a public health issue and a medical lobby that has agreed to de facto deny women the right to abortion through this institute to appeal to a conscience that has been resolved differently in various other countries and certainly did not lead to women having no practical right to abortion, as with these percentages it means how many conscientious objectors exist in certain hospitals. Therefore, it is important to say the medical lobby is also responsible for its private, financial entrepreneurial interests in what is happening to us today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u106240	I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr Robert Jankovic to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u106241	Mr. Vice-President, honourable colleagues and colleagues The Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 27th session held on 21 June 2022 the proposal of the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia No. A-289/2022-2 of 14 June 2022 and the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime No. KIS-US-8/2022 on 9 June 2022 to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of conducting criminal proceedings against Boris Milosevic in the Croatian Parliament for the existence of a reasonable suspicion that he committed a criminal offence to the abuse of positions and powers referred to in Article 291(1) and (2), in conjunction with Article 31. Penalty law. Boris Milosevic is a representative of the 10th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and based on Article 76. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office is terminated and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament shall not be detained or a criminal procedure can be initiated. Without discussion, the committee shall, on the basis of the provision of Article 116. The Rules of Procedure unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make the next decision. An authorisation shall be granted for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Boris Milosevic of representatives in the Croatian Parliament under the proposal of the State Attorney's Office No. A-289/2022-2 of 14 June 2022 and the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime No. KIS-US-8/2022 of 9 June 2022 on the grounds of the existence of a reasonable suspicion that he has committed a criminal offence against the abuse of the position and authority referred to in Article 291(1) and (2) in conjunction with Article 37. Penalty law. The Commission decided to grant authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against representatives in the Croatian Assembly of Boris Milosevic, at the request of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia as an independent and independent judicial body authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences in order to carry out its duties in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u106242	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. We have registered on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST esteemed Nino Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u106243	My colleagues and colleagues, we could have done without this, without this further humiliation of the Croatian Parliament. I talked about it on April 29th 62 days ago. Two months and one day, 62 days. If we refuse last week when there was no assembly and the days when the assembly didn't sit, then we had a colleague for 20 working days. We've seen him maybe once or twice, but that's irrelevant now. Why was this even necessary? I asked the question at the time it was found out that investigations were being conducted, that an investigation was being conducted against the then deputy prime minister of Milosevic. Respecting the presummation of innocence, we hope it will prove itself because it would be bad for both the Croatian government and the Croatian Parliament and Croatian politics in general to prove guilty. We respect the presummation of innocence and hope that Mr Milosevic will prove to the court that he is innocent, but it does not necessarily mean that he will. The moment it was found out about the investigations and when it becomes a political burden to the government, so it's already a heavy shadow that's problematic to the government, but seeing miracles isn't a problem for the parliament. And that's when I was talking two months ago about what I read. That the cheek of the assembly is thicker than the face of the government, that the stomach of the assembly is stronger than the delicate government, that it is less a shame for the assembly to have here in the benches of the person that the DORH will pursue on such charges than it is for the government. However, the ruling thought differently, the ruling majority and political responsibility for this disgrace we are experiencing now comes upon them. So, on April 29th, former counterpart Milosevic has now activated the mandate, tomorrow will be the former, and the mandate-immunity commission has considered the DORH's request for, the authorisation to conduct a criminal procedure, so to remove immunity on June 21st. And nothing here removes immunity, there will be criminal proceedings. The outcome will be as it will be, but the shameful episode in the history of this ruling majority, which remains, has been recorded that their assessment was that what is politically and morally problematic for the government, is not problematic for the Croatian Parliament, which has given enough opinion on the highest representative body in Croatia, and thus indirectly about Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u106244	We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll continue at 9:30 tomorrow with a statement on the amendments. Have a nice rest of the day. Session adjourned at 5:26 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116588	Honorable MPs and MPs good morning. According to the announcement, we continue with the item on the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Fund "Croatia for Children", second reading, P.Z. No. 200 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation of this bill, with us the Secretary of State, Maria Pleikosa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116589	Thank you very much. The Honorable President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. The “Croatia for Children” Foundation was founded by the Republic of Croatia in 2008. The Act on the “Croatia for Children” Foundation, and the founding rights and obligations on behalf of the Republic of Croatia are fulfilled by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. From 1 August 2015 The Act on the “Croatia for Children” Foundation is in force, which regulates the way, the working conditions and purpose of the Foundation, the body of the Foundation, the underlying assets and the means and sources of financing. Questions not governed by this law shall be subject to the provisions of the laws governing the foundations. The final proposal for a law is in accordance with the current Act on the “Croatia for Children” Foundation with the provisions of the Foundation Act, which entered into force on 1 March 2019. and replaced until then the applicable law on foundations and foundations. The analysis of the normative framework identified the need to bring the Law on the "Croatia for Children" Foundation in line with the new legislation. In relation to the Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the “Croatia for Children” Foundation, which was adopted in HS, the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Act on the “Croatia for Children” Foundation was in line with the conclusion of a contract on the work of the trust manager with the Management Board of the Foundation in accordance with the term of office to which the fund manager is elected, it is art. 4. From the report on the work of the foundation in 2021. results in the award of financial support to natural persons, the co-financing of projects and legal persons programmes, the payment of scholarships to students in regular education and the implementation of independent projects in 2021. promoting the welfare of children’s personal and property rights and empowering families in situations of different social, health, education and educational needs, thus achieving the purpose for which it was established. It is therefore proposed to adopt the final proposal of the Law amending the Act on the "Croatia for Children" Foundation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116590	Thank you. Let's go to the replicas. It's my colleague Kirin's turn first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116591	Honorable President, Your Honor. The “Croatia for Children” Foundation was founded of course in 2008. As you said and, of course, this foundation as well as others must operate under certain legal frameworks in order to perform the function for which they are established. Please, do you have information about the process of manipulation and exploitation and, basically, a noble idea in which some members of the foundation and different manipulators tend to use their position for personal benefit and personal variety of interests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116592	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116593	Thank you for your comment. For example, promoting the welfare of children’s personal and property rights and empowering families in situations of different social, health, education and educational needs are the purpose of the “Croatia for Children” Foundation. This purpose is achieved by providing support in money and things, by supporting cultural, educational, sports, recreation, religious content and other support, and in no way can it be said that any way to abuse the purpose of the foundation, therefore it is a noble action that is being carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116594	Comrade Maximchuk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116595	Thank you very much, President HS. Dear Secretary of State. You're in your debate, but from the report on the operation of the 2021 foundation. We can see that through the award of money support to funded projects and programmes to legal persons, paying scholarships to students, implementing independent projects promoted the welfare of children and strengthened the family by thus achieving the purpose of its existence. But what I am interested in, and this has been going through previous discussions, why is there no number of support for gifted children?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116596	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116597	So, it is about co-financing on money support in co-financing of projects and programmes of legal persons and support, as I pointed out, relating to financial support to natural persons, co-financing of projects and legal persons, scholarships to students and students during regular schooling, so it is known that the beneficiaries of the foundation that they can be legal and natural persons and that the foundation is in fact all of its everything that has been established and fulfilled its purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116598	Comrade Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116599	Thank you very much. Respected secretary of state. When a few people want to get acquainted with the work of the foundation, then they go to websites and I can say that they are quite detailed and all the reports, so the right to access information can be commended here that it seems quite transparent to me. When you look at this in those reports, then you see 2019, '20, '21. that revenue and expenditure actually fall, I suppose there is something and the impact of the pandemic on the means of financing. However, what I am interested in, you yourself have said what the foundation actually finance, natural persons, legal persons, scholarships and independent projects, and the pages say that so far there have been 5 public calls, the last one was in 2019, that there were no additional public calls for legal persons and somehow it seems to me that these public calls are somehow not published that I can see them all if I don't know where you publish them, whether only on the pages of the foundation or somewhere else, so maybe a few calls are more available to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116600	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116601	Well, it's possible that the sites aren't well updated, we'll check it out, but it's safe, I'm sure there were public calls and that I'm a member of the board myself, and we meet regularly and solve the financing of legal persons' projects and programs, so here we are in 2021. The foundation financed projects and programmes of legal persons, 40 programmes and projects of total value of around 2.5 million kuna through a public call, then had direct, direct, direct funding of projects and programmes for 26 legal persons, and directly co-financed the programme “Institute a Centre for Services for Children and Families in the Simište container settlement in Petrinja”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116602	Hey, buddy Brcic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116603	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, well, here's colleague Kirin actually asked a question that I had intended to ask, and that's a potential abuse of funds intended primarily for children's well-being, so we heard the answer from you so we can't and I'm glad we can't withdraw comparison, I speak from experience, with some other maybe constant social benefits where at the expense of children, so often parents spend these funds on a whole other purpose, and not for the benefit of children, and that's more like, as I said, referring to some other social benefits that are not single aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116604	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116605	Thank you very much. Of course, the work of the foundation is very transparent and, apart from meeting regularly, we regularly control, each, every lip and every kuna can be proven and really given for the most noble purposes, which is for our children.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116606	Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116607	Among other things, the Foundation is funded by the benefits of games of chance and donations. Considering they've been in the past 2 years. Unfortunately, Croatia hit a number of earthquakes we can conclude that the happiness was present and a lot of Croatian citizens' donations, but we cannot say that they recognized the Croatian Foundation for Children as that institution that they should donate regardless of what is connected to the state institutions, so it should be safer and more transparent. I'm interested in how you explain the dramatic downturn in donations that were small anyway, in 2020. compared to 2021. If we look at the report for both years, so is 2020. The grant revenue amounted to HRK 403.993 of the total of kuna 8-9 million, and in 2021. The donations amounted to only 33.110 kuna, i.e. not even 10% of that amount from the previous year.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116608	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116609	So in your question, you mentioned the pandemic, and it really was, it really was a crisis time, but here I would repeat the foundation is being financed as is known from the income of gambling, from income from assets, from donations and other incomes in accordance with the law. As far as donations are concerned, the donation was a lot in nature. I would like to emphasise and praise the work of the foundation through independent projects, I can list a large number of independent projects "My prom night", "I'm traveling too", "Let's meet Croatia", "Sports Educational Sailor's weekend", humanitarian action "We Connect Croatian Hearts", Library and Glin reading room and a large and large series of other actions that the foundation also implements.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116610	Comrade Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116611	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. Dear Secretary of State, here you are in part and answered, but I will still ask you in this replica that you are potential because the public is certainly interested. It is clear to all of us why the foundation was founded and why there is, the welfare of children, their help, in their family socioeconomic status, help with schooling. In public it is also known to design child’s equipment for newborns and children up to 3 years of age. implemented by UNICEF. Publicly, it is also known to include the foundation in the implementation of the FEAD program to help in school kitchens, but in the previous replica you replied, but I would like that although it is less known in the public and not so much on the pages and in the media there are these interesting colorful programs and projects that focus on young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116612	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116613	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, the purpose of the foundation is to promote the welfare of children’s personal and property rights, and to strengthen their families in situations of social, health, educational and educational needs. This is exactly how the foundation and achieves its purpose, so as to co-finance the costs of school nutrition for children living in poverty or at risk of poverty in the school year 2020/'21, a total of 686,365 kuna for 758 children in 34 primary schools has been paid. We have a number of projects, here we have no time, but I would point out, my new auto school for which the implementation of which is paid 7000 kuna by the project is allowed to train 11 users of the social care facility for the management of the B-category vehicle. There's a number of others, but here's no time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116614	Thank you. Comrade Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116615	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President, for the honor of the Secretary of State ofpleikosa. I certainly support these amendments to the law, but I would like to say something about the activities and work of the Croatian Children's Foundation. So, only last weekend they organised 4 very serious activities of which is one football game in Split where the pioneers of the Ukrainian Shahtar and the friendly football club from Zagreb Prigorje participated. Also, what should be particularly commended is the collaboration of Croatian designers who donate formal dresses and departments each year to graduates and graduates of course for children from institutions and children without adequate parental care and in this sense I think that all Croatian designers who show great solidarity and their great heart among them is Ivan Frisčić and Ivica Skoko and Mrs Matija Vujica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116616	Comrade Buric, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116617	Thank you very much. Here, I'd like to get a hold of myself. So, in addition to these numerous activities and actions that the foundation performs and activities, let's get to know Croatia's organisation of an educational weekend in national parks or parks of nature for which the implementation of which 15000 kuna was paid to cover the costs of transport, then the organisation of summer holidays for children of weaker property, called ‘I'm traveling’, ‘My prom night’, a fashion show held on 15 April of this year. They're numerous, they're really numerous activities, it's hard to name them all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116618	Now they're going to be replicating counterpart Ban-Vlahek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116619	Dear Secretary of State certainly commends the work of the foundation, but what I am interested in informing, better inform the citizens that they can contact the foundation that it exists at all. Because in the conversation with the same, I got the impression that they don't even know that there is this foundation and that basically this foundation is meant for citizens not only, or for natural persons, but not just for legal persons, so here's an answer to how to better inform them so that these people can even address the foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116620	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116621	Thanks for asking. The respected representatives of the foundation are extremely visible on all social networks, very often visiting on shows I do not know Croatian television. They're really visible. I mean, here I am a little bit surprised, but I'm sure the trustee and the staff will try to make it even more visible. Here's what to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116622	Thank you. Comrade Bedekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116623	Thank you very much for your esteemed secretary of state. I believe that it is once again necessary to stress that the fundamental purpose of the foundation is, above all, to promote the welfare of children and to strengthen families in situations of different social, health or educational needs, or educational needs of children, and it is important to stress that the support of the foundation goes on different sides. First of all, they go to natural persons, then they go to co-financing of different projects of legal persons, to scholarships of children in families who are socially endangered but also, as you said, and a large number of colleagues so far through independent foundation projects. I believe that one of the important and independent projects of the foundation is co-financing of the cost of diet for children living in poverty, and I think it is necessary to further emphasise here that it is those schools that are not covered by the school diet project provided by the EU Fund and it is necessary to stress that it is in the past The year was the amount of nearly 690 million kuna. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116624	Thank you, dear colleague Bedekovic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116625	Thank you, well-respected MPs. The ministry has been involved in ensuring school nutrition for children at risk of poverty and social exclusion, and since 2015 since the school year of sixteenth, the 17th funds of FEAD have been used for this purpose. Up to now, over 6 calls made under the FEAD have provided 147 million kuna for more than 30,000 children in about 500 schools. I would also point out that the implementation of the seventh competition is to ensure school nutrition for children at risk of poverty for the school year 2022/2023. under which the first 17 contracts of more than 14 million kuna were signed. It is through the foundation that the children of those counties who do not belong to this group receive support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116626	Thank you very much. Comrade Vlasic Iljkić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116627	I would like to thank the Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State. The work of the “Croatia for Children” Foundation is very important because it actually complements everything that institutions of social care, associations and other organisations do. He primarily deals with children with disabilities, children at risk of poverty, children who are placed in foster care. We must note that in Croatia 20% of children live at risk of poverty or social inclusion which affects their well-being and exercise of rights in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Children. In view of the increase in the cost of services and all other costs of aid, as regards all other needs for children with difficulties as far as you can influence them to change the rates for the achievement of certain rights in the system, the work of the foundation, since the changes took place in the system or in the Social Care Act as regards personal disability, and whether such analogy can also be applied to the work of the trust and regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116628	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116629	Here I would mention that in the year 2021, the foundation granted 691 financial support to individuals with a total amount of just over three million kunas and this support in the case of multiple births of 450 000 kuna, financial support for each foster child up to 3 years, then financial support for sick children, children damage to health and children with developmental disabilities. They granted support for gifted children, for children in the education system totalling 763 thousand kunas, money support for the current living needs of children, money support for children coming out of the care system, as well as financial support for the family and economically affected by the disease epidemic, so here is the obvious extent of the broad range of support to be granted and the Foundation will, in any case, continue to seek expand the circle of users. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116630	Comrade Lukacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116631	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, you yourself mentioned how the Foundation implements various projects and grants support, all in order to improve the quality of life of children, so the Foundation, and you mentioned this, grants scholarships to students in regular high school education. Do you have any information, do you know if there are any students with developmental difficulties among these students, or whether they even appear in scholarships? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116632	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116633	Thank you for asking the honourable MPs. Of course, children with difficulties also appear in all the competitions they are, which the Foundation is conducting. This moment, the exact number, I don't have, however, I know that in any case, that children with disabilities are as represented as all the other children, so in any case this is very positive, here, I would just point out, in 2021 the Foundation paid scholarships to students in regular high school education of 397 500. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116634	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116635	Dear Secretary of State, here I would like to hear some information about the Foundation, I think you should actually say that in your first address, and that is information about the budget of the Foundation, how much the budget is per year, how many employees there are and how much funding it is, how much it actually goes from the state budget or games of chance, what the budget is, and what the structure of financing and the number of employees is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116636	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116637	Thank you for asking, Your Honor. Here's the Fund's funding from gambling revenue, from income from assets, donations and other incomes under the law. They are derived from accompanying activities, such as organization of charity, making and selling presses, emblems, badges and similar activities. Donations are also in nature, such as for prom dresses. As for the funds, the annual budget is 8.5 million kuna. There are eight employees employed in the Foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116638	Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116639	Thank you very much, President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So it's one of the Foundations that we all appreciate, and you see from these replicas that is extremely important and extremely important and would like to be even more important, even more important and more successful, especially in this part of the donations, so my question to you is very simple. So what's important, it would be important for the public to know more about the Foundation. To make the public more familiar. Did you at the Ministry think about working in principle, I don't mean propaganda, but more publicity about the Foundation, about what were its successes because for a simple reason, in that way you could collect more donations. We have opportunities and see also in public space yes, and it is normal for the ministries to talk about different projects. It seems to me that this one project for the state is extremely important, that it is extremely important when it comes to children, so we all swear in children, but I think we should make sure that the public is more familiar with it, so I'm interested in your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116640	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116641	Thank you, honourable MPs, for asking. Here, as I mentioned earlier, the visibility of the Foundation is extremely good. I mentioned that therefore all the events that the Foundation organises are extremely visible, of course, can always be worked on improving and we will certainly work on improving visibility, but as I mentioned, all the media are transferring and indeed here it is a bit surprising to me that you are not with it, that it is not, that it seems to you that it is not so visible, but we will certainly work on it and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116642	Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116643	I thank the president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state, here, I support the work of the Foundation and everything that makes children better in the community because we know when there are crises, and we live today in the global crisis that children usually get hurt and then that we need to do everything that doesn't happen. My question to you is how to actually make a step in psychological assistance, since we are here today, we have the end of the school year, we have students who have all the excellent grades, and I can't get into high school. So, we have to, we have to do everything we can to help our children get through this period or to find other solutions to avoid this kind of situation that is practically... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116644	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116645	Thank you very much for asking, Your Honor. Here, I would stress that the Foundation is precisely through its own projects trying to encourage children, that they do not have these traumas that you mention, and we witness daily that more and more children have been traumatized, so here through the project My senior evening, through the project and I travel it is possible to holiday for 11 families with 36 children, let us meet the Croatian educational weekend organization in national parks or nature parks for whose implementation 15,000 kuna is paid to cover transport costs. Sports educational sailing weekend, humanitarian action Join Croatian hearts, indeed a lot of activities, it is of course and it is a contribution that children are not traumatized... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116646	And the last line, colleague Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116647	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, in your explanation, it is said that in 2021 you gave and paid 691 cash support to natural persons, families, and that is worth over 3 million kuna. So it is very important to note this in these particularly challenging times when families and children are increasingly difficult to cope with needs and demands. So here you can see how much it contributes, how important the foundation is, and how important your activities are in this very, very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116648	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116649	Thank you, distinguished MPs for this comment. Here I would add that in 2021, as you said 691 cash support was granted from 112 cash support in the case of multiple births totalling 450,000 kuna, 36 cash support for every foster child up to 3 years, 67 money support for sick children, children with impaired health and children with developmental disabilities, 5 money support for gifted children, 222 money support for children in the education system, 144 money support for the current life needs of children, 4 money support for children coming out of the care system and 101 money support for families economically affected by the Covid-19 epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116650	Thank you, Secretary of State, we've reached the end of the replica, so please return to your seat. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] No, I'm opening the argument. The first in line is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most esteemed colleague Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116651	It's in the pervasive interests of not saying that it borders on bizarre individuals, so I'm included in a comparative study of the work reports of some institutions in various years. Why do I call it obscenity and it's bordering on bizarre? Since this report may conclude that it is not intended for such a comparative study. Where does my thesis come from? If you compare the report in 2020 to that report that was given to us for 2021, you might come from the most important part of it, and that is the conclusion you will notice that the conclusion is identical. And now I'm going to read you the most important parts that I want to link to the question that I've asked here, which is one of the key issues of donations and incomes that relate to the ability of the foundation to work and act as well as to what we could hear here about the work of the foundation itself. For example, in that conclusion in 2020, it writes the following. The foundation's independent projects were well-accompanied to ensure greater visibility of the foundation, thus greater than the previous period as to how different it would be for the person to understand it. We became recognizable as an institution, so obviously we weren't before, primarily families who know that they can always find refuge and a solution for at least a part of their problems. It was also important to inform the public about the activities that we are carrying out as a foundation for the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So we see some progress compared to 2019, I guess. We're going to 2021. In conclusion, it says next. The independent projects of the foundation were media excellently followed by ensuring greater visibility of the foundation, we became recognized as an institution primarily to families who know that they can always find shelter and a solution to my reading for a part of their problems. It was also important to inform the public about the activities we are carrying out as a foundation for the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I won't read all your passports, I've only read one, but they're all identical to one little supplement, and that supplement is next. Finally, I am speaking from this report in 2021, the foundation has great potential for further development, and the results of the work in 2021 point to the need to ensure a continuous flow of funds from part of the gambling revenue as a result of boredom. That's what it says in 2020. And now there goes the only difference in the 3 text cards around the 2020 conclusion where it says, but in the increased amount or percentage. So we need more money than games of chance. The rest of the conclusion that sounds like some kind of progress, greater visibility, greater visibility of work, etc., are mere flossules because it's been prescribed since the previous year. So with these reports, if they are to serve us here to support the quality of the legal framework, they can't be allowed because they come down to the floscules. In an institution that has 8 employees, which deals with such an important activity, which is of general interest and child care, it is certain that it can do much, much better. When we talk about the need for an increased amount, or percentage of gambling, of the basic question that we are asked as parliamentary representatives, is why and in what proportion? And now I'm gonna go back to my question that I didn't get an adequate answer for. One way the trust fund is financed is through donations. So she has the possibility, and I also believe real potential given the importance of the role she plays in society to finance on her own. So other than games of happiness that could be on a smaller scale and what we would be commended here is the trend in the decline of this type of donation that may be used for some institutions where it's harder to obtain funds, and the growth of donations that come from other individuals. However, the situation is completely reversed in 2020. We are talking about 403.993 kuna donations, so a little less than half a million kuna donations, which is still a little relative to the general income of the foundation between eight and nine million in 2020 and in 2021. However, in 2021. We're talking about only 33,000 kuna and 110 donations, so not even 10% of the previous amount. What happened? Is that anyone's responsibility? Why do we have so few donations at a time when, for example, at the conclusion of 19.3.2021. One NGO such as the Solidarna Foundation has revenues from donations given the difficult situation in which RH 13 million 691 thousand 296 kuna was found, so 13 million NGOs for whom we can be honest no one can know how transparently they will operate because there is no guarantee, and one government organisation that needs to ensure transparency and for which everyone should know where the money goes has 33,000 kuna donations. So obviously there's some problem in getting funds and here we should see where it is and what we can do to get more donations. These donations were extremely large during this period, of course because the earthquake of affected areas and children's foundation also dealt with the earthquake of affected areas, so Petrinji directly donated a large number of large amounts of funds, but failed to collect an adequate amount of donations, which means that people did not recognise natural or legal persons as that institution where they could donate their funds safely or that would use them in the best possible way and should be made clear. Another thing that's worth talking about here, when we talk about this direct co-financing of legal persons' projects and programs, and it's called those people who have exclusive jurisdiction in one area, I'm not sure how it can be defined to be completely transparent, but what we're talking about here is the donation or the purchase of four containers, who decided to go right there, by which criteria and whether there were other interested, because we are talking here about a direct donation of 350,000 kuna. These are large funds and there should be criteria and there should be a transparently published list of people who could get a direct donation. And what does that mean? Of course, we all support that Petrinja gets the money, and we are aware of how much the crisis has been caused there by the earthquake of course and the pandemia that followed the earthquake, but in the future, and even before, given the direct donations and those less than 5,000 kunas for natural persons, it can only be a demonstration of someone's good, but a statement of someone's political will, and we should not allow such foundations to be able to interpret, so the rules should lead us clearly. Furthermore, as far as the foundation's work is concerned, there are a few more questions to be answered. If the Foundation acts on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and represents an effective platform in the daily improvement of child growth and development conditions, then why does the same foundation finance projects of public institutions and bodies of the state administration, etc.? So the state finances itself through a trust fund. What logic does that make? It's a flow I won't go from hollow to empty, but from state to state. It is therefore clear that it would be logical if it had already established an independent institution that it serves these other organisations that are not related to the state itself because the state can also finance its own activities without a foundation. What's interesting is a very small amount of money support for gifted children. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Why so little? Is so few gifted children interested? Is this area not developing enough and by what criteria? I'd like to know. And what may seem most important to us, one of the most important pillars of the foundation's work, and where it also notices a reduced drop in donations to work is exactly the most sensitive area, which is the school diet of children who do not have the opportunity to afford a meal. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Are alternative sources found for subsidising the diet of children who cannot afford or for some other reason a reduced amount for this purpose? This is certainly what I would like to know, since it is something that is certainly the area of the greatest interest, because children must eat first and then we can talk about further development of their potential. In conclusion, I want to say that this is not exclusively a criticism of the work of the foundation, the foundation has many quality projects than allowing the passing of the driving exam, proms, etc., but it is obvious that in some areas it can be much better and we would not be here. They should close their eyes before that, and the report should not in any way be a flossule. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116652	The second debate of the SDP advocates' club and respected counterpart Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116653	Thank you very much. Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Let's just go back for a moment to this Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Act of the Children's Foundation, so here's a purely technically we don't have much to say all together is on some 12 pages. Why are we bringing this all together? Because on March 1, 2019, the Foundation Law came into effect, so here we are now three and a few years later harmonizing it all together. Compared to the first reading, another article was added so that instead of nine, it is now ten and according to this article. 4th Foundation Manager will be elected to a specific, rather than to an indefinite one. Now as for the foundation itself, I already said in the replica I spoke and last time in the debate, when you go a little bit informing yourself about the Foundation itself, you go to the Foundation's pages, and I can say that there's a lot of data there, you can see what the Foundation is doing, which is the mission, which is the way it works, which is also this, all the annual reports, the auditors' reports, etc., so I say, it seems to me that it's pretty visible and transparent, but as I said in the replica, and the State Secretary herself said that these pages should be updated since, for example, for these public calls, you have information that the last public call was 2019, and now it was 2022, so I guess that even with these 5 calls, there were additional calls, because how different and legal persons would have appeared in the tenders themselves. Also, I talked to you last time, and now we've talked more, too few people know, so it's known there's a Foundation, etc., but somehow legal persons and individuals may be under-informed when the tenders go, when the public calls go. I am here, for example, specifically, as I am a councilwoman in the county assembly, telling ours in Međimurje County to follow these competitions whether they even appear so that it was a good thing, and we don't even know practically, no, so neither the legal persons are sufficiently informed. Now, here, as far as I've been watching, in 2021, only one of our Association of Blind Međimurje County has applied for concrete co-financing of projects, so as far as this one is concerned, and the media visibility and more accessible of these, notices of competitions, this is what we all ask you really together so that people can get a little better information. As far as the Foundation itself is concerned, it acts on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, independently and with partners, they say, in order to recognise, actively support and promote the rights and opportunities of children to their individual development and to contribute to the achievement of excellence and progress in their lives. And now he says that the Foundation's mission is to increase the birth rate, I'm reading all of this so that our public gets a little more information, so the increase in birth rate, the promotion of family values, the empowerment of families with more children and children from these families, families in sparsely populated and traffic isolated areas and children from these families, families of single parents and children from these families, pregnant women, births, mothers, children exposed to health risks and risks of educational, social and cultural exclusion, children without parents and children without parental care. They further say that this purpose is achieved through support in money, things and use of cultural, educational, sports, recreation and similar content, as well as other forms of support established by the General Acts of the Foundation. Here, that's how it works when you get a little bit of information on Facebook, which is on the foundation's website. And now you're going to watch a little bit of revenue and expenditure, 2019, normally, and revenues and expenditures were higher, incomes 9 and 400 million kuna, expenditures 10 million kuna, and then in 2020 the revenues of 8 787 000, expenditures 8 million 484, and then even a little less in 2021, 8 715 000, expenditures 9 million 372 million kuna, how is the Fund financed? We have already heard, from the revenue from gambling, so some revenue under special regulations, income from assets, income from donations and other revenues and now, already here is a colleague pointed out, the donations themselves actually fell in 2020. You have 403 993 kuna, and now 2021. 33,000 kunas, and then it would be good if, if we really had a mission from the Foundation to help children and families, then some kind of invitation would be sent to increase those donations a little bit. What projects are funded by the Foundation? So it's funded by the very natural person, the legal person, giving scholarships and funding and independent projects, and then 2021 for individuals there were 3 million kunas, for legal persons 40 projects, with 77 applications, means that some are not even accepted, right, means some criteria exist, so maybe if you're going to have a chance to tell us or at least to say on the Foundation's pages what the criteria are and how projects are chosen because practically half of the projects are almost not accepted. So for legal persons 2 497 000, the scholarship was 100, 5 thousand kuna each, means 500 thousand kuna, and I looked a little bit, there was practically 4 revisions of the list, the rank of scholarships, some of which, as far as I saw, gave up, so here, I'm quite interested in what are actually the reasons and how the scholarships will go because it's encrypted all, normally, you can't see the name and last name, right? For the school diet is significantly less, 686 365 kuna and is co-financed, direct co-financing of the project for 26 legal persons, 124 951 kuna and it is actually a little bit according to that one legal person, it turns out to you, like, not five thousand kunas, but come on, better anything than nothing so that in any case, as much donation and as much income as possible to help those who really need it. As far as the individuals themselves are concerned, it is said that whether they offer a selection of the Foundation, as many as 26 support, for individuals and then in 2021 it is shown there, whether, 3 million kunas for multiple births, for foster children, for sick children, for the gifted children of only 5. So the amount is an average of 8 million.../incomprehensible/... 8 thousand 799 kuna, it's a little bit, I think we all know that there are more gifted children, and it really should help a little more gifted children, for a system of education, for a system of living needs, for children outside the system of care and for Covid-19, so I say, as far as individuals and legal persons are concerned, we certainly support it as much as possible. In order to achieve the right to support a natural person, the foundation must apply for support and I think that there on the pages and have this, there is the possibility of applying, but I say the question is how much they all know, some who follow the pages of course will know when these applications are going and for the competition and for scholarships, but someone who doesn't even have a computer, is not all expensive enough media information, media information isn't strong enough. I don't know if you're going to go through some of the social care centers or how you're informing except over the foundation pages, that if you're going to get a chance, you're going to answer us, but in any case, people should know a little bit more. In the same way as legal persons, calls are made through a public tender, or a public call for applications once a year, and therefore they are financed by projects and programmes aimed at the welfare of children and young people. Also, direct co-financing of projects, and now which of the legal persons can apply, it is also good to say, so there may be someone who will hear, so second time, civil society organisations, means associations, foundations, foundations, foundations, private institutions, religious communities, legal persons of the Catholic Church who promote the family values of family empowerment, legal persons established to carry out cultural, educational, sports, recreational, religious and similar activities, public institutions, state administration bodies, JLS bodies and regional self-government, which is why I also said that in our county assembly because obviously I say insufficient information and legal persons themselves. So in any case, of course, we support the work of the foundation, we support that all of this is legally harmonised, and of course it's good to be on a certain rock manager of the foundation, but I say I call for as much transparency and as much information as possible for people to report to these support, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116654	We are going to the 3rd debate, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, dear colleague Simunic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116655	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are discussing the final proposal for a law amending the Law on the Children's Foundation of Croatia, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted to the Act on 3 June 2022. These amendments bring into line the current law with the provisions of the Foundation Act which entered into force on 1 March 2019, harmonisation is not disputed and it is necessary, but raises the question whether or not there is a reasonable reason why this necessary harmonisation has not been achieved but rather, immediately after the adoption of the legal provisions, but it does so today with a derogation of more than 3 years. The "Croatia for Children" fund is a non-profit organisation established by the Republic of Croatia in 2008, while the founding rights and obligations on its behalf are realised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Foundation shall be managed by the Management Board of the Foundation appointed by the Government on a proposal from the ministries and working bodies of HS. The term of office of members of the Management Board of the Foundation shall be 4 years. with the right to re-election. On the basis of a public tender, the Management Board of the Foundation shall appoint a trust manager who shall represent and manage the activities of the Foundation, and shall cooperate with private sector legal persons with a view to the possibility of funding the Foundation through donations. In relation to the text of the draft law which passed the first reading in the text of the final draft law in Art. 4. Amendment of Article 4 is added. The 10th century is 6th century. The Act on the “Croatia for Children” Foundation, which is the conclusion of a contract on the work of a person appointed as manager of a foundation for an indefinite period of time, has been replaced, since it is a post related to the mandate. The Act on the “Croatia for Children” Foundation regulates the ways and conditions of work of the “Croatia for Children”, the basic property, and the means and sources of financing. The work of the treasure is public. The Fund shall be obliged to provide public and public communication means with information on the performance of its activities. The work of the foundation is primarily financed from the revenues made by the state from gambling and revenue from assets, donations and other revenues. According to the 2021 data, the total revenues managed by the foundation amounted to 8 million 715 thousand kuna. The revenue of the trust shall be allocated to the decisions of the Management Board of the Foundation for Foundations in accordance with the financial plan, the annual work plan and the general acts of the Foundation. The financial year of the foundation begins on 1 January and ends on 31 December, and the Management Board of the Foundation is obliged to submit to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a report on the work of the Foundation for the past year by 30 April of the current year. According to the latest report, the total income of which the foundation had in 2021 amounted to around 8 million kunas, most of which amounted to revenue under special regulations of 8 million kunas, while the revenues from donations amounted to only 33,000 kunas, and other revenues on the basis of the return of neutral support and revenue from media sponsorships and sponsorships amounting to 323 thousand 880 kuna. Total expenditures were around 9 million and 400,000 kuna, resulting in 2 million expenditures for employees and material expenditures, while in the part of donations expenditures were allocated to financial support for natural persons in the largest part of the amount of around 3 million and 300,000 kuna. The Fund ‘Croatia for Children’ shall grant financial support to natural persons or families, where appropriate, in accordance with the applicable Regulation on species, conditions and procedure for granting support. The choice of the type of support depends primarily on the needs of the child for which the trust is applied for by the grant of support. Such support is in 2021. either 691, made by decision of the Management Board in total amounting to around 3 million kuna and 112 cash support for multiple delivery with an average amount of support of around 4 000 kuna, for each adopted child up to 3 g. 36 support for the average amount of about 3,000 800 kuna, 67 support for sick children, which is 27 support for sick children, only 5 support for gifted children with an average of around 8800 kuna. 22, 222 support for children in an education system of an average amount of 3,400 kuna, 144 support for the current living needs of children of an average amount also around 4,400 kuna. For children coming out of the welfare system, only 4 support with an average amount of support of around 12,500 kuna. And 101 money support for families economically affected by the Covid-19 disease epidemic. The “Croatia for Children” Foundation also grants financial support to students and students during their regular education. According to the 2021 data, 100 grant contracts were concluded with an individual scholarship amounting to 5,000 kuna. The Fund "Croatia for Children" co-finances projects and programmes of legal persons through a public tender or a public call for applications to be submitted on the basis of the previous decision of the Management Board of Foundations as a rule once a year. In this way, financial support is granted to those projects and programmes aimed at the welfare of children and young people and support to them through various contents that are vital to their growth and development. During 2021, 40, 40 of such projects amounted to around 2.5 million kuna were co-financed. Support is also deserved by all independent foundation projects such as the Project Co-financing of School Food Costs for Children Living in Poverty or at risk of poverty in the school year 2020/21 amounting to 686,000 kuna. project My new school of auto school for 11 current or former users of institutions that care for children without adequate care for the management of vehicles B category, and project My prom evening involving 15 girls and 10 young people from the entire Republic of Croatia. The project and I travel made it possible to holiday for 11 families with 36 children in 2021, and it has been successfully implemented since 2018. The project Meet Croatia includes 5 families with 23 children. There are still independent foundation projects, sports recreational sailing weekends, humanitarian action Connect Croatian hearts and libraries and reading room Glina help children from the area of the earthquake victims. The Foundation has great opportunities for further development, and the results of work in 2021 suggest the need to ensure continued inflow of funds from part of the gambling revenue. A greater effort should also be made to seek to develop between, and other sources of funding, which has been particularly highlighted and highlighted in the debate in the original draft law in order for the foundation to expand its activity in the future. This should certainly be taken into account further, and I am stressing this and stressing the importance of the need to increase the funding of funds through donations. I would also stress transparency, which means working on public availability of information to avoid some of the most needy children being denied for help because of the lack of information for seeking and this type of assistance. So I stress the importance of all possible promotions and information of citizens about the work of the foundation. Any investment in children and young people is in the future, and this is the mission of the “Croatia for Children” Foundation, which should at any moment be guided by the values of empathy and understanding of the deep needs of children, and I imagine that they are helped by taking care of the effectiveness that implies speed, proactiveity and expertise in the processing of user requests. Never forgetting the righteousness of giving opportunity to any child who needs help. The Social Democrats Club supports the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on the “Croatia for Children” Foundation and all activities that go towards daily improvement of conditions, growth and development of children and young people in the Republic of Croatia and contributes to better growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116656	Before we move on to the next debate, let us welcome all members and members of the Croatian Firearms Community who have joined us at the gallery. Welcome. And now I'm going to ask my esteemed colleague Lukacic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116657	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that every person is the happiest to see that the child is happy. So, what the "Croatia for Children" Fund does, I think it's commendable that children who in any way do projects, whether through support they get something from the foundation, I think it's something special to them. We had a chance to see some of us when the foundation organized a fashion show for seniors that was really touching, and girls and young men then put on our designers' dress and clothes that donated their, their works to children who couldn't buy clothes and suits for that special evening. So we have before us a law that, which should be brought into line with the Act on Foundations, so the Law on the Foundation of Croatia for Children" which has not so far been harmonised, now the provisions of this law will be harmonised and what may be most visible, which is that in art. 4. change for the trust manager of the contract, will no longer be indefinitely, but a contract for a specified time, given that the trustee is elected to the term of office. We had a chance to hear when the secretary of state talked about projects, about the support that all the foundation that was its purpose. Its purpose is to promote the welfare of the personal and property rights of children and families in situations of various social, health, educational and educational needs of children. The Foundation achieves its purpose through the award of money support, through the implementation of projects that improve the quality of life of children both through support and projects. We've already heard that the foundation is in 2021. paid a total of 691 cash support worth more than 3 million kuna. This law does not have some important changes in it compared to the first reading, except for this article, which I have already mentioned. 4. which amends the labour contract for the trust manager will no longer be indefinitely but for a certain time, as I have already said that the trustee is elected to the mandate. The “Croatia for Children” Foundation has implemented many projects, we have heard from vacation for children, different playgrounds, and received support for children who can buy computers or what they need, and we have heard scholarships of 5,000 kuna for children in high school education. And here I have to point out, especially I'm glad that children with developmental difficulties are also eligible for a scholarship competition because many of them can't achieve a scholarship in their local environments, so some cities give scholarships not, and in this way they can help themselves, so if they achieve a scholarship through a grant that publishes a foundation, they can make education easier for themselves, which is certainly important for each child, and especially for a child with developmental difficulties. Here's what we can say, the "Croatian Children's Foundation" works transparently, and I think we can all agree that we should support it, that all of us who can do it in any way, even if we just come to its actions, to its concerts. I have had the opportunity to participate in many different actions that the foundation organises and I must tell you, it is my personal favorite to see a smiling child, a satisfied child, and I believe so to all of us. This law, as I said, will fully comply with the Law on Foundations, which entered into force in 2019. and the foundation will continue to be able to conduct its mission transparently, I would say to the general satisfaction of children in the Republic of Croatia. All children who find themselves or families in any situation that is problematic, whether they are at risk of poverty, whether they are children with developmental difficulties, or are simply sick children who, at certain times, simply need some kind of support. I am sure that the foundation will meet through competitions if such a child or family comes to the competition for the award of support for such a difficult life situation, the foundation is certainly looking forward to it, but it is every application that has arrived at the competition and is truly transparent in allocating funds. Here's the HDZ club will support the adoption of this law and I still want to say the secretary of state you provided a lot of information in your opening address and I believe that we will continue to testify to the quality work of the Children's Foundation, because it thus promotes the interests of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be as much and as possible to the number of children who, in need, help you through support, whether through a project etc. To pass this law, there is no need to provide additional funding in the state budget, and here, as I said, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116658	Thank you. Now we move on to individual debates. The first in line is the esteemed colleague Antoliæ Vupra, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116659	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So here, in fact, there is a report and a change in the law of the foundation that we see and ourselves according to everything we read and what we know about it is necessary for the foundation. What actually reveals the state and insight of the foundation is that, in most parts, it covers the shortcomings and the absence of actually systematic care according to, for example, fostered children after leaving the foster care system. So it's not the state that jumps in, it's the foundation. So we also have jumps after stopping the project "Laws" where we have already had several remarks that after the project was stopped more than 14000 women are employed by this project, praises a valuable project which has a lack of competition between those several months of people covered by this programme, and those more than 14000 women, above all, are out of work. As a result, the children they have are suffering, and the system is certainly not fast enough to help and jump fast enough to help such children. Of course, this raises the question of payment of financial assistance as well as praise. So 691 cash aid was paid. We know that due to emergency situations, the system cannot react immediately, i.e. that the civil society system is always somehow faster and should not be as procedurally slow as we unfortunately see happening in the social care system, and so is that part of praise. Once again, I think that Mrs Selak has been very well-problemed by this connection, then the possible linkage and politicisation of the aid payment because the payments of money aid and any other aid must be, therefore, under strictly established criteria without the influence of the policy where and how this aid is granted. So what I would like to problem is that all children in Croatia do not have the same option, so neither eat in school kitchens nor be taken care of after fostering, nor be psychologically assisted if both county and local self-government units do not have enough hearing to include in that part. And that's the main objection not to trust, but to the system itself as it is set up. And now with the trust, we actually want to sort of, and we need to fix these shortcomings. However, what is commendable is that some counties like Varazdin County, so where we have centres of excellence, where gifted children are particularly rewarded, where they are actually obtained in large numbers and such children are scholarshipd. However, in the second part of Croatia, such assistance is missing and this child certainly does not have the same possibility, the same chances in life as in some other units of local self-government or county where there is more hearing for it, forgive me for reading but also more money. So the trust fund won't be enough for that either. I appeal that, therefore, all children in school must be fed and not only by those who do not, because they are in some way segregating, and that system should be centrally laid out from the country so that they do not put these children in a different disadvantage later on. So, psychological help is welcome to a proposal that comes to us unfortunately due to the covid crisis and a special commendation here to Varazdin, the city of Varazdin, which has provided psychological assistance to children after the covid crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116660	Thank you. We have a few replicas. First up, comrade Ban Vlahek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116661	Dear colleagues, I would refer to what you talked about and said and pointed out that Međimurje County, in partnership with 22 primary schools, is conducting a project "College meal for all" worth almost a million kunas with the goal of enabling every student regardless of the material situation in the family a school meal and preventing divided meals in schools. The project is fully funded by the European Aid Fund for the Need, for the most needed, and is only one in a number of supports which wish to enable schooling equally for all students and the highest possible level to charge the costs of parents. The County of Međimurje remains the only county in Croatia fully funded by bus and train transport for all primary and secondary school students and provides assistants in the teaching system in pre-school and school systems, and at the beginning of the school year and by supporting every high school student. My question is, why is the Međimurje County the only one in Croatia in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116662	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116663	Either luck or pleasure the Varazdin County was the first to introduce free school transportation for children for all. Of course, I am pleased that the Međimurje County has therefore not only provided free school transport but also free school meals for everyone. Such examples need to be emphasized in order to be followed by others. But regarding the fiscal potential of other units of local and regional self-government is certainly not possible there. That's where the trust fund comes in, but still, the foundation invests in only one limited number, there's not that much money. It is therefore necessary for children to have all the same opportunities in the whole of Croatia to deal with this problem systematically centrally.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116664	Second replica of colleague Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116665	This is what bothers me when we talk about how we finance and insist on transparency and clear criteria. So, I'm not saying that this example that I'm about to state right now has something problematic in it, but we are discussing here as legislators at the principle level because, of course, when we say that the city of Petrinja has been allocated 350,000 kunas by direct financing of a particular project, regardless of the earthquake, we are discussing the affected area so that someone can justifiably ask the question of who is in power in Petrinja and who is ruling Petrinja, the HDZ government, because the earthquake has hit Clay as well, so it hasn't received direct funding. Is that because Clay didn't sign up for any project because she didn't know, she didn't think she could get it, etc. So there are links between the political and this donor very vague and I really think that this could be more clearly arranged. And that everyone will ask questions about whether it's a good thing. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116666	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116667	Therefore, the foundation as part of good Croatia must indeed have a clean face. It is needed, it needs both HDZ and SDP and there and all other parties, I said only two exist and others. It's important in all of this that there really isn't a trace of doubt in it, but there is now, so there's a clear difference between Clay and Petrinja we have two areas we have disproportionately the number of aids paid and that's justifiable doubt. It should not be, it should not exist because the Croatian child is no matter where he was born necessary and deserves the same level of help and needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116668	Now we're going to be replicated by colleague Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116669	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you mentioned something in your discussion, and here is the report of the foundation itself that something is being financed and children outside the system of care. The big problem is how to help those children who, for example, after 18 years of schooling, leave the social care system because they are without adequate accommodation, without adequate parental care, how to help them. So this is where we're very incompetent. I visited the house of opportunity a few years ago in Čakovec, and I think you have the same in, the house of opportunity in Varazdin that provides, provides housing and helps such children after the 18th year, however, as these institutions and these houses are being financed, through units of local self-government. So this is funded by Čakovec and Međimurje County, so obviously the need is growing and the state must be more actively involved. If there's a foundation going to jump in, I didn't see that coming. Such projects were followed through the foundation. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116670	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116671	Thank you very much, just as the Varazdin and Međimurje area is known for the foster care of children. So here we have in Varazdin County the work of the Zipka Association, which through donation and over one part of the European project is actually a large pawn of participants, as well as in the foundation of personal engagement, was built a house of food in which children after coming out of the social care system until the first job, sort of taken care of. And even when young people get jobs they can't right away, so there's again this level of sensitivity of local self-government again comes to this expression, but not only sensitivity but also fiscal capacity. So not all municipalities, cities, counties are the same and there is a foundation one, and on the other hand the system must allow such children the same opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116672	Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116673	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you said one sentence in your debate, but the point is that all children in Croatia should have about the same opportunities, and we are aware that they are not. That depending on where they live and what their conditions are, they don't have different options. And that is why it is good that we are also discussing this foundation because they have parts of Croatia where indeed units of local self-government regardless of even, so municipalities and cities, and also the counties have this particular sensitivity, sensitivity to subordinate groups, have there I would say a certain economic power to help, but also have parts where I can't. And that's the role of the state to really take on its own importance. I'm often sorry to talk about sustainable development. Sustainable development means that all those in Croatia who have approximately the same opportunities can be transformed and this can be done and a comparison that children should have, and there is a role Foundations to enable their children in Croatia at least [[Intruder: Thank you.]] approximately the same possibility. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116674	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116675	Thank you very much. So where the state stops starts civil society, starts, starts personal engagement and state aid is through this foundation. So, the fact is that we're working through the foundation to solve the holes, but the hole is so big that it's impossible to patch it up without repairing the system, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116676	Now it's time for my colleague, Nadj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116677	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116678	You still have your lines.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116679	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, it has been said here that more resources should actually be withdrawn from gambling, but I believe that both public enterprises and companies owned and partly owned by the Republic of Croatia should give their pain to this foundation, but the management of the foundation should also be more proactive in raising these funds, meaning not to sit in the foundation itself and wait for the funds to come together than the dog, dog, we are from the trust, you have extra profits, so give some funds and in the foundation for children, these are children from the Republic, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116680	Thank you very much. I don't agree that public companies should share the money they have left, I don't think they should stay at all because they should spend everything for the purpose for which they were founded, so do business without profit, talk about public, public institutions. What is not good is that from the money of the lottery, which, in part, finance and for example, friendship society. So these societies of friendships that are then, where religious communities were then included, etc. which is not intended at all, but is still paid out of the lottery's dedicated assets, but to finance systematic money which should mostly come from private engagements, I really don't agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116681	Comrade Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116682	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleague Antoliæ Vupra, therefore your debate was very intense and it went very broadly, perhaps the least word was about the law, but here is the next thing you will be my comment. So you mentioned the government's project to hire women "Wish", and I'm glad you're praising it, but what I want to point out specifically to this occasion is that just for the employment of women, this government has provided nearly 2 billion kuna, which employs nearly 14,000 women who care about around 80,000 people who need help in the house. What you have also forgotten is that on 11 May this year, the 3rd phase of the project “Wish” was announced, and I think it is extremely important to mention it. As for children in need or at risk of poverty It is very important to say that our Minister Piletic is just the other day... [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116683	Comrade Buric, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116684	Thank you very much. To repeat what I have mentioned myself, the project “Wish” is very good, that there are more than 14,000 employees of women who have their children, who are actually in those months when there are no competitions, when there is a new competition, which, by the way, needs to be reported by other applicants, and not those who have previously reported themselves as being one of the same defects because it actually loses continuity in the employment of these women, em 78 thousand and some of the people who care about them. So I speak exclusively in that part, wonderfully that there is this project and it's great that we hired these women, but these women and these users are in the middle of a new competition that's longer than 3 months unemployed, and the people are carefree, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116685	And lastly, you'd leave again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116686	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleague Antolic, here he is, since we both come from Varazdin County and indeed your debate has moved me to come forward because today we are talking about the Foundation Act and the "Croatia for Children" Foundation is really working and thanking. You said that, in the system, I think the system works well, and the foundations are one thing, something else, and we have in our Varazdin County, as you have pointed out, centres of excellence and competence, so the thing is the behaviour of local initiatives that determine which direction it will go. On, I can only point out that we also have our Vita Foundation, founded by Varazdin County, which also takes the most care of children with malignancies and severe diseases and this foundation is also funded in a good part from donations and I think that all the actions that it... Just like the Croatian Children's Foundation, praises are valuable, but more donors should be included, and that would also be useful, thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116687	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116688	I agree with you, what I disagree with is that the Varazdin County has rejected the SDP councilman's proposal for an increased number of student scholarships.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116689	Thank you very much, no more replicas, thank you, and we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please, ma'am. Ancient Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116690	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, so here's an injured officer. 238, colleague Antolic Vupra, your proposal that the SDP proposed really has nothing to do with this topic today and the "Croatia for Children" Foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116691	Okay, but I have to, but it was a replica, so I have to give you this warning. Here you go, Mrs. President. Maria Selak Rasudiæ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116692	However, as president of the Committee on Gender Equality, it is not possible to notice that the more difficult working women are just encouraged to engage in caring for older and powerless ones, which is certainly the perpetuation of gender stereotype roles, so that it is worth considering, would be a valuable project, for example, and the employment of more employable men on projects taking care of older and powerless ones. Otherwise, this is quite common abroad, especially in Germany, and moreover, these jobs are both sought and well paid, with us obviously exclusively reserved for women. I will return to the scale of this debate, so one question that has been raised here again and openly, that relating to donation revenues and the fact that it certainly can do better, especially at the time of the intensive donations that were present in the previous period due to the earthquake of affected areas. The second question relating to the work of this Foundation is indeed one fundamental question of how to write the report. If we write reports that will only be meaningful and serve exclusively to satisfy the form, and no one is expected to follow the content, then we have not done our job properly. In fact, we do not know whether or not the night debates in the Parliament or the debates, let's say the "Croatia for Children" Foundation is actually being followed by the Croatian public because it is not a hot topic, but it does not justify us not doing our job as it belongs. If I open a report that has an identical conclusion, and the conclusion refers to progress compared to the previous year, year after year, so the report that is prescribed, then, except that I as a responsible reader, in this case the legislator feels offended, I have the right to ask the question whether someone is doing their job as it belongs. If someone wants more revenue from gambling, it is necessary to write for a start where they are missing and has to write serious reports that one can read and compete with the previous year. It's not all completely black, and I'm going to repeat the fact that, let's say, in the report last year, we can also track a clear list of those who have received the funds, which is certainly important to allow everyone to monitor the transparency of the allocation of those funds. However, to make key progress on the floscule, which is usually done in most reports where only the paragraphs from previous years are copied, shows that these institutions are under which they are not, which are not so much of the public, in some way amortised and swept in their activity, and that may explain the fact that they are not so much of the donations themselves because they are governmental, because they are safe, because they have the income of games fortunately, because their work does not bind from their effectiveness or pay them because nothing will happen if the report is prescribed and then we have a picture of Croatia in a broader sense and all the problems they face, the effectiveness of the public administration which then justifies the rhetoric that is strictly antipathic to me and which I find inadmissible to speak about the interests in the state and public sector, etc. So to show that that's not the case, we have to do our job as it belongs. I would like to hear the answer to the question in the finale of what really happened and with the support of diet projects, why they fell so much, double down compared to the previous year, whether new sources of funds were found, income for dieting children, or decreased need, which would be wonderful to hear, but I do not believe that unfortunately the case or the funds have been directed elsewhere. And in the end, I'm going to say something about the Foundation's very site, which is a key communication tool with the public and also the parliamentary representatives. It looks good, however, not updated, so the current projects and programmes consist of a project from May 2019 of something that happened 3 years ago, so this is the actuality that was first and last published, 3 years old. It should certainly work to make the site more up-to-date, to make the data available to the public, to make the public more interested, to make more applications, more donations and more opportunity to activate the Foundation in Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116693	Thank you. The first replica, Mrs. Pryce. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116694	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. And when you debated on behalf of the club and now you're in individual debates about donations. I'm kind of sure that the subject of the donation should always be tied to the subject of visibility, with the subject of engagement, with some things happening by themselves, if you have the means from games to happiness, then you don't really activate elsewhere. When I asked the guest secretary of state, she said she was surprised because she felt like there was a lot in public space. I don't think so, I don't think there's much to see in public space, that there should be additional effort and additional commitment to actually be seen because through this engagement you can open both the subject of donations and topics, but the subject of donation and faith in the state system. So why does one, this need to be asked, why would someone rather donate to someone else than to what's in the state system? So that's where a series of topics opens up, and I'm interested in this visibility. How? You appreciate that visibility? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116695	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116696	I was partially and cynical when I read that paragraph that greater visibility this year was related to the 2020 report and that this identical paragraph with greater visibility was repeated in 2021, so they certainly rate it always the same and ever higher. I also got an answer that wasn't accurate and didn't explain what it was about. I received an answer that numerous donations in nature were present and this justified a radical reduction in donations, so not even 10% of the amount from the year before. One year 400 grand, another year 33,000. But every year there are donations in nature, even these projects that have been mentioned, from prom dresses and beyond, that happens every year, these are already haunted projects that are known to the public and these donations have been present before. Why didn't Croatia hear about children, let's help the children with the earthquake of affected areas, if they were really giving money for such projects, later through the Foundation, and some other foundations, such as the Solidarityna, are just to collect 13 million kuna to the end, that is a legitimate question. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116697	- Mrs. Crescent. Antholic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116698	20% of children in Croatia live at risk of poverty. How do you make these children equal in the territory of all Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116699	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116700	It's a really serious and difficult question that I can't answer in such a short time, but for starters, when we talk about this matter and the part-time work of the Foundation, I don't think the foundation in those basic rights of the child, it's the right to a meal to assume the role of the state, so even in part, the state should provide every child with the right to a free meal if he can't afford it, and the work of a foundation that depends partly on both incomes and deals and other things should be used for some other purposes. Secondly, of course all children, we talked earlier about pre-school education, should have equal access to pre-school education, especially those children at risk of poverty, and not like now that we have unbalanced criteria at the level of Croatia when we talk about access to pre-school education and education and a free meal for all, not through work a foundation rather than through government's concrete decisions. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116701	Mrs. Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116702	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Selak Rasdic. So in your performance, you said I would quote you "Is the foundation doing its job well", as you like to correct our colleagues now I will correct you, therefore it is not whether but whether the foundation is doing well enough of its work. Yes, he does his job well enough from scholarships he provides for students and students to donations, even for the treatment of very sick children with special needs to co-finance or finance auto school, to sailing educational trips to prom nights and the financing of their suits and wedding dresses. And as for the diet of children at school, you forgot to say that just the other day, Minister Piletic delivered 15 million kuna worth of contracts for $15,000. children in Croatian schools and their free meals [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Please. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116703	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116704	Comrade Buric, when you are trying to reach out, you must still be more precise in your statement. You gave the answer to my question here, not me. You have long received an "A" for the pledge, and with you an equal and serious debate can lead if you once point to any failure in the work of this government and use any debate on the law or report to question, and thus improve the work of the competent institutions, rather than exclusively obtaining pluses in the eyes of your superiors.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116705	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116706	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Selak Rasudic has been injured by an article. 238, so if I put out any wrong facts or allegations, I want to be made public.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116707	Thank you very much. Mrs. Buric, you know we don't have an institution to blame, so I'm afraid we have to give you a heads-up. Mrs. Marija Selak Rapudić, here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116708	Art. The 238th demeaning of parliamentary deputies, counterpart Buric, was, unlike me, not a fact but an interpretation of these facts, the difference between these two should be well known, although this is rarely expected from HDZ. In fact, if you bring out the exact data on the reduction in the number of donations, then you're talking about facts, if you say that the foundation is doing its job well, then you're talking about your own party preferences and interpretations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116709	Mrs. Selak Raspadić Mrs. Buric is therefore a warning, so I must give it to you. Ms. Martina Vlasic Iljkić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116710	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. The work of the “Croatia for Children” Foundation is important because it complements what social care institutions, associations and other organisations are responsible for. The primary work of the foundation deals with children in need, children who grow up in poverty, who are at risk of poverty, children with difficulties, children in foster families, and then children coming out of the welfare system. In Croatia, more than 20% of children live at risk of poverty or social exclusion which directly affects their further life and development and the exercise of the rights guaranteed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child and is 7% higher risk of poverty than the average in the EU. At the highest risk are children living in households with more than two children in the family and with fewer employees of adults. According to UNICEF data in the Republic of Croatia, the rate of child poverty up to five years of child's age is 22%, the data we really need to worry about. According to data from the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy from 2020. Because even though we're in 2022. The number of children who are guaranteed a minimum fee is 3,485 children and the child benefit is 122.259 and 242,893 children, respectively. The number of child users is in decline as can be prescribed by a small number of children, but censorships that haven't changed in years. In the general inflation of the increased cost of daily life needs of children and families of foods, energy needs to be singled out and increased all separations for families and children and increased allowance for children as a SDP club and submitted our proposal in 2020. In the context of this law, as I have pointed out, it is necessary to amend the censorships or to amend the rules of the foundation on the basis of which the censorships for the exercise of certain rights are prescribed. We believe that, in accordance with the amendments to the Social Care Act, where censorships are changed where property and income censors are no longer a condition for the achievement of personal disability, that such analogue model should also be applied to the achievement of the rights for children with disabilities and at the Children's Fund, so we appeal that the censorships for the achievement of individual rights should be considered and that we appeal here to the present State Secretary that data from the social care system are updated because the latest available data are from 2020 and that we can at all plan measures or foundations or any other organisation when we have outdated data from 2020. We believe that the foundation can make more efforts to detect priority needs mainly related to the mental health of children and young people, as the services of assistance and support in the Republic of Croatia are insufficient. According to the latest data and research conducted by the professors of Law School among the principals of primary schools in the Republic of Croatia regarding a school meal 85% of directors believe that a meal in schools should be free of charge for all children regardless of material status and that it should be provided by the state. 45% of the directors responded that among children who are not in the school diet system there are those who do not consume one meal or bring anything from home or consume anything throughout the day. A third of directors say the number of students receiving a free school meal has increased back three years. In 17% of primary schools since the pandemic of the coronary virus, the number of parents who were unable to meet the cost of eating at school has increased. Parents are ashamed to report a child for a free meal because it is considered to be a stigmatized child. According to the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, from 2021 to 2026, a free meal for all children is planned when a one-way course is introduced and no transitional solution is offered until then. Children can't wait and any delay in children's needs specifically for available school meals is not in line with children's development needs and does not leave the impression that priority policies are children and young. We believe that these issues are of national interest and should not depend on local decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116711	Thank you very much. The first replica of Mrs. Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116712	We colleagues have heard that free school meals depend on everyone’s financial opportunities for certain local units. However, as I mentioned in Međimurje County, the project is fully funded by the EU aid fund, so I wonder why the other units of local self-government do not use the fund? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116713	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116714	Well, here's my answer. It would certainly be to use those resources that are available and planned in the fund. Unless they are also planned for children related to primary school or are limited, it should certainly be changed and a really free meal for all children in schools regardless of material status, because it is actually about children’s development needs. And as I said often parents are ashamed to report children for a free meal, they don't have the means to pay especially if it's more children and the cost of eating in schools increases, so it's certainly a child's development needs and should be recognised as a priority in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116715	Thank you. Mrs. Selak-Raspudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116716	Dear fellow Members, I'm glad you mentioned this part that refers to the stigmatization of children who receive a free meal and I don't think it's prominent enough. I also remember in my day that there was talk of a child's allowance and that children who received a child's allowance, and this would also be discussed publicly in the class because certain arguments had to be provided in order to receive a child's allowance were stegmatized and that children were ashamed of it. I believe that it is now with this free meal and I agree with you that all children should have a free meal, and if that is not possible then it can be arranged that all children of the lower material income by automatedism have this free meal, not that they depend on the trusts. So when something depends on the trust, then it's allocated and it gets the impression that it's not the priority of this state, and it has to be a priority. And as you explain in this context, the fact that the funds the foundation was giving at this difficult time for free meals for 50%. So from a million and 300 to about 600,000 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116717	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116718	It's a defeated data, but it's also an indication that it's not really a centrally organized school diet, and that leads to the organisation and implementation being then difficult. If this is centralised, there would certainly be no gaps and better needs and priorities would be detected as regards children and the need for a free school meal for all children. We have meaning in a way it's organized to finance a free school meal and trust and local units and regional units regarding secondary schools. So that's all something dispersed and not enough to control it, to really give priority and what you said to get the impression that this is the government's priority it should definitely be centralisedly organised. By then, here's the talk, and it can only happen to us that the rights are shrinking, not to increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116719	Thank you. Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116720	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, it is good that you reminded all of us and in fact the Croatian public of the situation as it is in Croatia. Therefore, there is insufficient help for those of the poorest, many families, and children at risk of poverty. It's also a good thing you brought out this information on free meals. I agree that we should all have free meals, but that we should also work on the quality of these meals. That's clean from the medical side. Let's go back to the trust. So the foundation rags holes where the state doesn't give enough help to those who need help. We have already said that it is in some way insufficient to inform citizens, i.e. legal persons how to apply to competitions. You worked at the Social Care Centre and you certainly know what needs are in your area, so if you received any information as a center at all when the public calls, or public tenders, or if it's really just there on the foundation pages, so who sees, sees.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116721	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116722	Thank you. Here is certainly one of the obligations or duties of a social worker or a professional employee at the Social Care Centre to learn about the rights of parents in general what is offered at local level as well as national level. But often it happens that no information actually comes to a natural person who is not users of the social care system and has certain difficulties, and there is certainly a certain part or region of Croatia that knows and is familiar with the meaning of informing people about the exchange of communication between parents, while the other part does not know at all and does not know the work of the foundation and is not informed that as a natural person it can report for the exercise of certain rights. The public should certainly be informed about the work of the foundation, but I say it is not a priority for the foundation to be the bearer of the system. Social care than here's help. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116723	Thank you very much. Mrs. Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116724	Dear MPs, the World Health Organization has for many years been warning of epidemiological data in children and young people's mental disorders, and there is talk of problem 20 through 20. Namely, every 5 children and 20% of children, according to the World Health Organization, have some mental disorder, and then only 20% of just every 5 children from those with mental health problems get some adequate professional help. So what role do you think the foundation should play in solving or helping solve this problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116725	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116726	Thank you. Well, as I was saying, I believe that the foundation can make more of an effort to actually detect current and current problems. The colleague also spoke of a certain need for updating and working and reports and all that the foundation should be concerned with and I believe that the dualing of certain rights, for example, of one-off money aids that can be achieved with the ministry, means that in local self-governments, this part may also be reduced in a certain way and that it means to the Ministry, social care centres, and that certain funds can be re-scheduled for children's mental health services because these services in the Republic are insufficient, and that is something that cannot be provided by the social care system and should be developed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116727	Thank you. Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116728	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, I'll make my point, and then you comment. I believe that the Croatian Foundation for Children is above standard, so we have, we have a family, we have a local, we have a regional self-government, we have a state, then it should be a foundation for children. So, through 4 or 5 categories, the rights of children at risk can be realized, and this is what I think is above standard when it comes to prom parties, so prom dresses like Ivica Fristic or, or sailing clubs that organize these sailing or swimming courses or school for, for driving exams and so on. We cannot put this foundation for children in the category of the Ministry of Labour because Minister Piletic says 15,000 meals for children at school will be provided next year So, I think it's a whole different category, that this is still beyond standard of everything. [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116729	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116730	So I agree that there should be a difference between what the foundation is funding and what it deals with as a priority as one, it should be as one of the things it supports in the system that it currently does not provide, do not provide other, other organisations or associations or social care centres. And then there should be a full development of the foundation. But if we have the means of one-time cash aid, the school meals, the snack, means the financing of these activities that I need to be centrally organised by the ministry, and means that priority should be given to centrally organising these needs so that the needs of such a character as you said could be financed and more actively organised in the foundation. So I agree that there should be room for the trust that she deals with each other. services than they are now. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116731	Vice President Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116732	My colleague Vlasic Iljkić, you have rightly expressed your dissatisfaction with the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made it very clear to children in schools that they will wait for a free meal in schools for a few more years, and that is not the case. In view of the fact that, in the EU's budgetary perspective by 2027, through the new ISF+ but also through the next Generation, there is actually a considerable amount of space to finance just this kind of thing because the European Commission, as one of its priorities, has pointed out exactly that address of material deprivation and poverty, which certainly is what 20% of the children who live at risk of poverty are. But what's the problem is that at this point we don't know if the government is going to do anything about it because it hasn't yet adopted any operational plan even though time is running. In 2021 a new budgetary perspective began, we are in the middle of 2022 of operational We've got a zero. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116733	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116734	I thank the esteemed colleagues for pointing out once again what the government does not do for the needs of children, and it is therefore about the development needs of the child when it is necessary to provide at the earliest age what, which is crucial for their health. It is important to say that there really are children in our system who do not consume a single meal during a school shift. How is that kid even concentrated on teaching, how can he even follow the class, how can all of this do what is expected of him? Health is at risk, so this inaction and disorganization and, in fact, the government's silence endangers children's health directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116735	Thank you very much. You have no more replicas. My sweetheart Maximchuk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116736	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, the distinguished secretary of state with co-workers, co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the “Croatia for Children” Foundation, the law of only a few articles, which harmonizes with the provisions of the Law on Foundations and Foundations, which further regulates the ways and conditions of the work of the Foundation, this harmonisation mainly relates to the conclusion of the contract of the trust manager with the Management Board, which is regulated by Article. 4.. We can say this is a technical law. The government of the Republic of Croatia is 2008. A special law established by the Children's Foundation. The original purpose of the foundation was to increase the birth rate, promote family values and strengthen families and children. The 2015 Foundation Act This purpose has spread to promote the well-being of children’s personal property rights, to empower families in social and health situations, to education needs of children, to support cultural, educational, sports and recreational and religious content. Of course, by facing challenges in the immediate environment, and by listening to the needs of society, especially those of the youngest members, the foundation has made a major turn in its work over the past few years. In the report, as well as in the debate of the secretary of state, we could see that the budget of the foundation is 8.5 million kuna, that there are 8 employees and that 691 support was paid for last year through the allocation of natural financial support, funding of projects, programmes, payment of scholarships, implementation of independent projects. The Foundation has achieved the purpose of its existence, which is the welfare of children and the empowerment of families. The goal is certainly to strengthen all of us as an institution of recognizable identity and character, which contributes actively to better growing children in Croatia through empathy, expertise and innovation, but that is of course the purpose, it is the task of all of us sitting here, but of course, especially those working at the “Croatia for Children” Foundation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116737	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Dragon's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116738	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues Maksimčuk, this Law on the “Croatia for Children” Foundation are provided for children and families with more children, for sick children, for children with developmental difficulties, fostered children, gifted children and for other help. Do you think that the public and potential users are well aware of the possibilities and praises of a valuable law, 691 financial assistance from users has been allocated in the last year, and there is certainly much more for such users, and there is also a need? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116739	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116740	Thank you very much. Well, certainly more promotions of the foundation are not harmful, but I believe that the foundation is very publicly and transparently doing reports, that it is quite present on social networks, as well on all public televisions, but as I said at the beginning of course that we can all be promoters of the Children's Foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116741	Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116742	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues of Maksimchuk, as you have said in your individual debate, we have here today the Final Bill on Amendments of the Law on the Children's Foundation, which is about more relevant to the technical part, or to, the arrangement within the foundation itself, but the “Croatian for Children” Foundation itself is much more important and much more important and from the occasion of children as a particularly sensitive group of society, but also what the foundation does, promotes and cares about, and for this reason my question is that the foundation was created and was founded in 2008. Do you think that by now and so far she has fulfilled her existence, fulfilled her goal, her vision, and how all of us together can make the foundation itself even more visible in the future, but even more concerned about the ones who need it most, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116743	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116744	Thank you very much. So here's what I said, that the foundation was founded in 2008, certainly it fulfilled its purpose and purpose. The Foundation is concerned, once again they can provide assistance to families with multiple births, their work and efforts are fighting for the growth and better life of children of Croatia, they are seeking to upgrade the system of existing services for children financially and in other ways supporting children in need, where necessary, and supporting the work of legal persons dedicated to just working with children. Of course, all of this may be insufficient, but surely the foundation has achieved its goal and purpose, and all of us, like I said, can be the promoters of the foundation in the everyday way of communication in everyday life.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116745	Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116746	Dear Vice President, dear fellow Members of Maximchuk, I really believe it is difficult to ensure the exact same conditions practically for all children at the level of Croatia for all children in need, especially given that many JLS, regional self-governments implement different programmes and projects to help children. So, for example. Osijek-Baranja County has been implementing a free meal project for all children in the Osijek-Baranja County for many years. At JLS level we also have a specific free kindergarten in the municipality, free textbooks, swimming schools and various different projects and forms of assistance to those children who are needed. I think it's precisely the role of the foundation to help those children who somehow pass through all these projects, which are not covered by these projects, that the foundation then intervenes and helps them in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116747	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116748	Thank you very much. Yes, just as you said the purpose of the foundation was to help those children who failed to exercise their rights through units of local and regional self-government, but all of us together cannot expect everything from the state level, but here you have said a positive example from your county, there are certainly such positive examples in other cities and municipalities and other counties, and certainly, with the support of units or leaders of units of local and regional self-government, we all have to work together to help our children.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116749	Thank you. Mrs. Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116750	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear colleagues. The question arises and is given in replicas, as well as in debates, and realizes that it understands and thinks that the scope and type of business carried out by the foundation actually corresponds to that size and type of business carried out by other state bodies. I mean, it's not exactly like that, and it can be very confusing. I'd like to make that clear. For example, one-time assistance to children who are in need of criteria from the social care system cannot be achieved, but can be achieved by the criteria clearly indicated in a public call or by a contest that sets out a foundation. As well as equipment for children up to three years of age who are located in a foster family. For example, the driver’s exam for children who are located in social institutions is also mentioned, they can’t do that. achieve through existing regulations and through the system in which they are located. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116751	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116752	Thank you very much. Yes, that's right, so the foundation was founded to help those children who have failed to exercise their rights through a variety of support, and I will especially highlight those support for children who, after their age, come out of these safe houses and who need any support that this foundation certainly provides.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116753	Vice President Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116754	My colleagues, Maksimchuk, you said that these are technical amendments to the law and that you are absolutely right, changing 10 articles, and more or less, nomotechnically harmonizes this law with the Foundation Act. However, this Foundation Law came into force on January 1, 2019, so I am now asking you a very simple question. If these are technical changes, and they are and the law consists only of 10 articles, which you needed throughout 2019, '20, '21. and half 2022. to comply with the law which I said entered into force on 1 January 2019?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116755	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116756	Thank you very much. I can agree with you in part, yes, but the foundation still had its purpose, or it fulfilled all that it was founded for. Could it have been faster? There was probably a procedure that had to be respected. Most important of all, the foundation continued active in its work and operation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116757	Mrs. Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116758	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues. As we have heard, it is a matter of technical changes to the law, but today it was certainly an opportunity to talk about a number of problems regarding children, poverty, need, funding, school meals of everything we consider a priority for the growth and development of children who are actually our most endangered residents. Certainly the problem is that you can always improve the work of all organisations, and so can these foundations, and you can update certain actions and jobs, here I am thinking of maybe changing the rules regarding the modification of the censorship in respect of the exercise of certain rights. What's your attitude on these censorships, should they change one step at a time with all these growing cost of life? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116759	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116760	Thank you very much. So I believe that exactly the foundation will face all these new challenges ahead of us will work on it, but I must also mention that the ministry is also involved in the insurance of school food for children and that here we were witnessing just a few days ago that the minister signed a tender worth 14.6 million kuna with representatives of cities and municipalities where they were safe and some municipalities and cities from yours, but also from my county and I am sure that the foundation in cooperation with the ministry will work on promoting the rights and improvement of all our children.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116761	Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116762	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear colleagues. Yes, you said in the introduction that this law on amendments and amendments to the laws on child charges, and it's not a discussion of execution, so, but how we got caught in the spider's web, so I'm going to get caught here, and I just want to say this, that the foundation for children doesn't execute the things that have been heard here, but the state is the first family, the second is local self-government, regional and state. So as far as I had the opportunity to read all that was required of the foundation for the children, and as for the diet, the foundation was executed. So it's me above the standard that allows those children who have failed to exercise certain rights that belong to them through certain items and then come to the children's foundation. So we can't put that much weight into it. responsibilities for the foundation for children than what [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] It belongs to them. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116763	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116764	Thank you very much. So here I am going to repeat once again that the foundation means it has just done its purpose and purpose for which it was founded. Of course, it is to report to the help foundation children who of course failed to exercise their rights through units of local and regional self-government and, as you said, no child had ever been without exercising their right, and that, of course, this one had not before asked him in one of these units that I had previously listed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116765	And finally Mrs. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116766	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, your debate has actually raised a very important issue, and this is the question that through the debate we must clearly clarify and clearly distinguish the mission, the work and activities of the foundation from the obligation and the work and the activities that are in part of the state bodies, and especially the relevant ministry. Therefore, the Foundation's mission, work and activity should in no way be identified with the obligation of state bodies It is very important to clarify and highlight the purpose of the foundation, which is primarily to promote the welfare of children and families with children. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And right through independent foundation projects that represent a kind of upgrade, the super standard can be seen. From the co-financing of school nutrition, from the project My new school of auto school My prom, project and I travel, project Meet Croatia [[Thank you very much.]] etc. And that's what's important to stress all the time. [[Intruder: Thank you Mrs. Bedekovic.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116767	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116768	Thank you very much, here I will agree once again with you that the foundation has achieved its purpose of existence, which is the welfare of children and the empowerment of families, and of course once again I will repeat that all of us together need to help strengthen the foundation as an institution in order for it to have a recognizable identity and character and, of course, by its expertise, continue to actively contribute to improving children and raising children in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116769	Thank you, no more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116770	Dear Vice President, dear secretary of state, dear colleagues and colleagues here we are talking about the foundation for children. Well, here I am since I've been talking about the foundation for children we must always talk about all the foundations so we can see the context of gambling in Croatia, right? Nice secretary of state said 8.5 million kunas if I'm not mistaken, 8 employees, most of the money comes from gambling, the smaller part just half a million comes from other donations, from other financiers. And that's actually okay, just here I'm always afraid and I wonder if it takes 8 people to distribute 8.5 million kunas. I think it would be spent in 5 minutes or distributed in a kind of fast way. The question is, do eight people always have to work there? But okay, let people work, great everything. But look here, there's been a problem here somehow over these trusts, and we have another trust called the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, for example. The same trust is whether she gets money from games of happiness, though she gets a lot more, gets 36 million kuna right away, and then ever since the unrealized winnings of 6 million, it's about 42, so somewhere around 5 million even gets out of it, it gets from the external financiers of this one, and it's one 50 million kuna, and that money is also distributed. But who is it distributed to? Now that's very interesting, who gets that money? And nobody on the left when he talked about the foundation for the children didn't say, so come on, we're going to get some of this money, for example, Rada Boric, she's not here today, so her peace study centre was getting 400,000 kuna from the foundation. And it's nice to take Radi Boric here 350 to give nice kids. Huh. Or maybe when we speak to the GONG Foundation I must always emphasize, the president of GONG means that this association today is a declared member, so the SDP has cared, he is today an employee of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116771	Mr. Zekanovic's foundation for children is...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116772	It is, but it's a treasure, so the treasure...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116773	But there aren't any children here, I haven't noticed any children before.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116774	Well, the kids aren't here. They can't. They can't. They can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't,
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116775	Let's move on, let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116776	Okay, okay, gong...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116777	Little to the kids to get there.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116778	We'll come, here we go, but we'll go Gong and go to B.a.B.e. first, and then we'll go to the kids. B.a.B.E. Well, the Peace Studies Centre of the Document, then Step, Domino, it's all those LBGTIQ associations that get 100, 200, 300, 400 thousand kuna from the foundation. People, i.e. respected secretary of state, if you have any contact and influence with the Civil Society Foundation, since the foundations finance the trusts, so the Civil Society Development Foundation is funding you the Kajo Dadic Foundation. It's the same interesting thing. She gets about a million kunas a year, a million, a million and a half. Why don't the Civil Society Foundation take Radi Boric 350,000 kuna and give it to the children's foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116779	You said kids, thank you, thank God.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116780	Here's what it would be, that would be...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116781	We stuck to the darkness.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116782	...end, I've got another minute don't do me. So, the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament's subject is extremely high, and the fact that it may not suit you is now the second pair of posts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116783	Okay, okay, but we need to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116784	But you have to let me talk about the subject in my own way in my own time, and not let me hear it now, I find you very likable...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116785	I didn't give you a warning...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116786	...and you gave a very good interview the other day in the evening, but this...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116787	I didn't give you a warning, but I heard the children's word, so it's nice to me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116788	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116789	I'll give you some time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116790	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Jandrokovic, take a look at your colleague. All right, well, mostly let me cut the story short. We're talking about a foundation for children. And everyone would love to have a little more money here and I've now found an excellent way since the foundations can finance the trusts. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That the Civil Society Development Foundation is funding a foundation for children and that the money that goes to B.a.B.a., GONG, Peace Studies Centre, Documents, Iskoraku, Domino etc., etc., B.a.B.A. let the money be beautifully distributed to our dear and prestigious children. Here's so much on my part, thank you very much for your attention and thank you for letting me say what I meant.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116791	And here's to the kids. Vice President Voter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116792	My friend Zekanovic, I'm really surprised at you. You are a representative in the Croatian Parliament and HS makes laws, and when you go out with such nonsense here, I must say, I apologize if I will offend you with that, then the minimum minimum should be to read and refer to what you are talking about. Why do I say that? If you had read the Law establishing a foundation for, the National Foundation for Civil Society Development then you would have seen that this HS is the very foundation founded as a roof and public institution for cooperation, integration and funding of civil society organisations in the Republic of Croatia, and I stress and finance civil society organisations in the Republic of Croatia, sapient now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116793	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116794	Dear colleagues, if you say something is smart doesn't mean it's smart, if you say something that's stupid doesn't mean it's stupid. So I didn't say any stupidity because I said the same thing you did, the National Foundation for Civil Society Development is also funding foundations, too, and it's my right to disagree with the funding of the Civil Society Development Foundation, and I believe that instead of B.a.B.E., the Rada Boric Centre, the Peace Studies Centre, the documents, the Centres for Women's Studies should be given to children, the other foundation, and what is not clear to you in that whole story? So, this is, with this I have also helped, there is the Kajo Dadic Foundation, which is also funded by the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, which is the problem, which part of my story is not clear to you, but it is clear to all of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116795	All right, time. Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116796	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Zekanovic, so here's your discussion you've just encouraged me to ask, on the question, I haven't thought at all about asking a replica, but it would be really good to consider the amounts you've mentioned to these other trusts as much as they have, etc., it would be good to have this same little debate on, to, to, at the meeting, given that here on this trust that spends only 8 million kunas practically a lot, we talk a lot, I think it would be very interesting to see the meaning of the way work, resources, etc. With which they have other trusts, that would be good, right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116797	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116798	Well, a respected colleague, of course, should, and here I would like to see the majority here and a little bit of the ruling think about how the trust works, I'm not going to say that everything about the trust is wrong and bad, there are some good things being financed, but I think that one part of the association that I don't think should get those funds at all, and especially that amount of funds that should be rerouted to those who need it much more, and these are our children, so in that sense, here's the money obviously, because this one, this foundation gets 36 million kuna, so maybe my proposal would be to transfer out of these 36 million kunas or 40 almost actually half of the money to children, and here this part of the society that I think is unnecessary, this progressive slowly shuts down.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116799	- Mrs. Crescent. Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116800	Thank you very much, Vice President. My dear colleague, you have not uttered any stupidity, nor foolishness, but only in fact revealed facts that some do not want to talk about in public. What we should, and all of us here should praise this very foundation for children and say all the good that has been done and what has been done, and instead there are thousands of reasons to challenge and precisely the values that the foundation has achieved and then talk about how children do not have a meal, as there are no donations, etc., and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we here have ensured that it is a safe source from the lottery, and donations are given voluntarily. So whoever wants to, and among other things, civil society can make voluntary donations, so here's the chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116801	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116802	My dear colleague, here's another one and I agree with you and thank you for your replica, here's another one. Since our children are the most precious thing we have, and the alleged progress that is suggested on this side is not progress but disaster, I think that this equation is simple, we're going to make one minus here, we're going to give one big plus, and then we'd have one better, I'm not going to say a good situation, but a better situation than we have today. So, esteemed secretary of state, here's my suggestion in the distribution of money games for luck that here you take it to take one piece of money to take the Civil Society Development Foundations for the reason I've cited and to give it to children because our children are guaranteed our future, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116803	Hala to you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Marija Selak Rasudiæ, Club of Representatives Mosta, final, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116804	I think it's wrong to discuss the work of the foundation if it's justified to view it exclusively as its criticism, and then to make it all the same under that simple argument that anyone who doesn't like the work of the foundation doesn't care about children and doesn't care about humanitarian work and that kind of interpretation. So, it's not up to us to praise, of course, that we all appreciate the constructive projects the foundation has produced, some of them have found a place in the Croatian public and have become almost recognizable almost as brands such as "Matural Dinner", some of them really help Croatian society in some of the things children need, and they are not so recognized as a driving test for children who do not have the material means to afford it themselves, who will later provide them with easier employability, etc. However, it is our fundamental task here as parliamentary representatives to ask questions about certain things that are not transparent enough in the work of the foundation as well as suggestions for its improvement. In that sense, I was very clear, the first thing we expect and what I think is to seek greater self-sustainability of the trust, so a more intense donation, someone has to find a way to the donor. When it comes to the government's foundation, when it comes to something guaranteed by state institutions, that path should be much simpler, especially when children are concerned with NGOs whose transparency you can never ultimately verify where we ultimately and historically proven to have different malversions present. So, we expect, in the next reporting periods, that donation revenues will increase, not radically, in an intense donation period like the previous year. Secondly, when we talk about reports on the work of the foundation, since they can only be analysed at a comparative level comparing the previous years, we expect that the part that is locked and related to progress in the work of the foundation that sums up its work will not be a mere flossula or a simplified copyist from one year to the other rather than directly refer to improvements or shortcomings in the work of the foundation itself. Thirdly, when we talk about what the foundation should or should not finance, since most of these actions that are really useful are repeated year by year, we could have too much debate here about what more foundations can do and what other initiatives can finance, and about improving the material conditions of children. And including the answers to those questions about why incomes for food finances are falling, for example in schools, and some other revenues are growing. And that fourth, key transparency in the work of the foundation, therefore, when we talk about direct donations, given some vague formulations, we will in some ways be easy on those amounts that are less than 5,000 kuna, but these larger amounts that relate to the possibility of direct funding of something called institutions that are the only one in charge of partial work in this area raises the question of potential favoration or the coherence of politics and donations from the foundation. Therefore, there should also be transparent criteria for this part of direct funding, not to leave room for different interpretations, whether the Petrinji funds were then allocated, for example, because we now have a petrin mayoral who comes from the HDZ ranks. So, all of this I said was specifically based on the fact and I hope that because the foundation is probably not because the foundation is important to someone but because it is trying to euthanize the debate in the assembly that has really been accepted by this time for the debate on legal changes, that it will help their better quality work because, of course, it is in everyone's interest to improve the conditions and opportunities in which our children live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116805	You, too. Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic HDZ final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116806	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is what can be concluded from the debate so far, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the adoption of amendments and additions to this law. It is about technical changes, it is about harmonising with the Foundations Act, and this law also regulates the ways and conditions of work of the Children's Foundation, the basic property, the means of financing whether and so on. And I will remind therefore the founder of the foundation is the Republic of Croatia, the founding rights and obligations on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, the government of the Republic of Croatia. And what is important again is to repeat that the fundamental purpose of the foundation is to promote the welfare and personal and property rights of children and certainly empower the family in situations of different social, educational, health or any other needs of children and that is what is in line with the family policy led by HDZ and the government of Andrej Plenkovic. What today's debate has opened up in the first few moments has raised a very important question, which is the question of a clear distinction and clarification of the purpose of the role, the task of the foundation of the obligation of the state body or the obligation of the ministry, the government's obligations to ensure standards for children and families in need of assistance. And in this sense, there is no need to overlap or overlap the activities of this foundation with obligations, again I stress the state bodies, and it is very clear that the purpose of the foundation is to promote the welfare of children and the welfare of families with children. In this context, it is necessary to clearly understand and clearly distinguish what is the mission, what is the purpose and what is the job of the “Croatia for Children” Foundation as well as the rest of all other foundations dealing with various other activities. What may be well summed up and repeated, so the three types of support the Foundation grants through its programmes, these are financial support to natural persons, these are support or co-financing of projects and legal persons programmes and support to students of the secondary school level through scholarship. And what we see here is the most today seems to me by following a careful debate today, among other things, is these independent projects of the foundation that I am responsible for, in fact, the foundation among other things and having its own visibility, which are independent projects such as co-financing of the cost of a virgin living in poverty or at risk of poverty, not as a complement, but as a basic activity, but as a complement and assistance to all those environments that are not covered by the school diet project for which the funds are already provided in the European Aid Fund. So, equally brilliant smaller projects but projects with perspective and projects that the foundations give visibility are projects such as one interesting project My new school of auto school which provides the possibility of training users and institutions and institutions that care for children without adequate care to pass driver's exams, many times already mentioned project My prom night, and then great project I travel, great project Let's get to know Croatia through which children are able to travel and to finance the name of travel to Croatia and to get to know their homeland. Great project Sport Educational Sailing weekend, aid to the library and Glin readers after, after the destruction, the project, let's say, sports for all. Well, then we didn't mention it, but I'm going to highlight a great humanitarian action. Let's connect Croatian hearts. And that's what the "Croatia for Children" Foundation gives recognition and that's what we need to give full support to, and as I said at the beginning of full support HDZ Club amendments and additions to this law. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116807	Ms. Dalia Oreskovic final voice, Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116808	A poorly-organised state misbehaves its purpose and ill-settled care, missatisfactions with the needs of its citizens. By doing so, I think that the problem of this law as well as other laws relating to the establishment of certain foundations in the name and account of the Republic of Croatia is that there is no good distinction between those obligations and the role to be met by the state in relation to those roles and the purpose that after the state fulfils its obligations to citizens can complement and upgrade civil society. During this debate, we have not heard what this foundation is for and why it is necessary, why it is necessary for Croatia to have it. I am not against the foundation, however, but this is a foundation established by the Croatian Parliament by its laws. If we look at what it says on the web pages of this foundation, we will see that the purpose is to help children who need support in achieving quality and content growth, complementing state bodies in achieving better lives of children, designing and implementing their own projects and making sure that the public knows about the effective platform of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is then said that the fundamental values of empathy, the care of a deep understanding of the needs of children and the will to be helped by all employees, efficiency, rapid proactiveity, expertise in the processing of requests, then justice, providing opportunities for every child who needs help to seek it while taking care of the fair treatment of each of them, openness to cooperation, transparency, innovation. When we realize what we were talking about today during this debate, for example, about the right to eat in schools, we will conclude that this is about the fundamental rights that should be provided to every child of the Republic of Croatia, and we know that they are not. If we look at what other activities have been overly financed through the work of this foundation, we will again come to the conclusion that most of these needs were to be addressed by the state but through its respective ministries, but that is not the case. And here we come to cloud responsibility in the work of resolution ministries that have not fulfilled their role and purpose. And why are these foundations even established? Here's a fundamental question. I am sorry that every new assembly of the Croatian Parliament in some way accepts the inherited state, something that already exists before and then continues on the same path without being asked at all, and why some body, some state body, some institution, and so some foundation is even established. It seems to me that in this foundation, and in many other foundations there are people who were politically active at some point or who contributed politically from below, so they should be taken care of because what they do in those foundations should be done by resolution ministers and resolution ministries. However, the resolution ministries are under increased public control, someone asks how many children have received a warm meal or, how many children are socially threatened, how many children have received the protection that a social one should provide under the Constitution of the social state. No one's asking a question to the trust. I mentioned the fundamental values and how the foundation itself is presented on its websites. We here politicians who should follow the system, follow other state institutions would like to be interviewed by someone now to ask who is currently the director of the foundation of this or any other by the assembly established. They are also for us as a supervisory body over these bodies, and then for the general public completely anonymous persons. And that's the whole point. And then we come up with that problem that was also discussed and discussed by some MPs who called for the civil sector to donate more to these state foundations. I'm responsibly saying you wouldn't. God mourns every kuna that is paid into this foundation because there is yet no idea what money is spent on and on what criteria and on what key. That's why last year there were 33,000 kuna donations, and for example for another foundation called here, which was truly the foundation of civil society, there were 13 million kunas. Because citizens have more trust in this by civil society and citizens than in the institutions of this state and this government. But let's go, let's go from the beginning, let's say what the state should be doing through its resolution ministries in the first place. And let civil society be free to supplement [[Intruder: Thank you.]] what the state should be doing. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116809	Thank you. And finally Vice President Sabina Voter SDP, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116810	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. No one in this room today likely had the slightest intention to offend, hurt the feelings of those working at the “Croatia for Children” Foundation or challenge the foundation of the law given power to actually do something that is very noble. But it's not good that any foundation is perceived by the National Foundation as a party foundation. I think I understand that in the board of directors sitting or sitting there were colleagues Lukačić and colleagues of Pleikosa and colleagues Bedeković and colleagues Murganić and colleagues Željka Josic, a colleague of Aladrović etc., etc., but that they were or were members of the board of directors on the proposal of certain ministries does not mean that if they are talking about the meaning of the foundation today, some may question him, okay. If it is debated whether the purpose of the foundation is fulfilled who gave it this HS in another, third, sixth, fifth, does not mean that someone has something against the foundation, but rather we want this foundation to be the real Croatian foundation "Croatia for children" for all children of Croatia to open up more, not shut up in politics but more open than politics, and to raise as much funds as possible, which will be allocated to the most needed, and where the state has failed, not to be some kind of parallel state system. I will, on behalf of the SDP club, just recapture what we find controversial in this law that you have said technically, but it remains a question and it is our full right to express our dissatisfaction with the fact that it took you three and a half years to comply with the Foundation Act in these ten articles. That's the oxymoronic said snail speed. Fortunately here someone said it didn't interfere with the functioning of the foundation, but you are such snails and things that simply affect people's existence when we look at measures to combat the covid crisis simply goes too slowly and it's not good. Such sloppyness is inadmissible, that for you ten articles of the law of classical technical harmonisation takes a minimum of three and a half years, so this is a picture and opportunity of this government. Secondly, I agree entirely with my colleagues and colleagues who have mentioned here that it is not good if we say that the Foundation Act is defined as a non-profit legal person whose purpose is to have the property of a trust in money, rights or things or incomes which it receives permanently serves the achievement of some general useful or charitable purpose, that in the structure of the income of the very foundation of total revenues of 8 million and 715 thousand and 6 kuna, only that the share of donations 0,38% should not be the primary task of the foundation. So I say that the foundation needs to be more open to the economy, partners and even other parts of the civil sector to see more clearly in which part of the promotional work together to encourage citizens, businessmen, private legal persons, however you want to invest more in the foundation and participate in joint programmes, and in fact this foundation is a platform for gathering that good part of Croatia that we have shown that we have this solidarity when it is most difficult in Croatia, as far as we are actually prepared, but that this foundation is actually doing continued care for children and I think that this can be and that this trend must change. Thirdly, visibility and promiscuity, I like, say, the action the foundation took in March of this year "Make a small step big" where by the end of the year it will be carrying out a campaign to point to a violation of children's rights in Croatia and what society can do to protect and improve it. I think such campaigns need to be even more involved with more public figures, more businessmen, to somehow start that wheel. And the fourth thing I want to pay attention to is not so much to the trusts but to the associations, I ask that two registers, one associations and non-profit organisations, one headed to the Ministry of Finance, the other to the Ministry of Social Policy, be uniform because there are some associations that have been deleted from one register, and the rest are in the other. Such phantom associations And we don't need unrelated data. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, thank you time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116811	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books, first reading, P.Z. No. 284 The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. If the proposer wants to see him, we have the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and I have seen him, Josip Salapic wants to take the floor. Here you go. Stanka, who? Mrs. Anka, Mr. Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116814	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the center club and the GLAS. We are facing changes and additions to the Law on Land Books, a law that we all appreciate is extremely important, and we all know that the situation in the cataster and land books is alarming, and with great expectation we have been waiting for one amendment and addition of the law after the law was passed in 2019 in terms of certain improvements, i.e. pulsibility and insurance, and for the data to be accurate, and for the whole process to be quick. We, when we do not know how to solve the problem in Croatia, then solve it in different ways. When we didn't know how to solve the problem of, say, chipping dogs and cats and how to control it, then we transferred it to the communal directors to keep them under surveillance. When we didn't know what to do in the health care system, then we transferred it to family doctors who can suddenly do everything from vaccination to covid, to testing. I see now that the minister is also proposing to work in the ER, so for an ambulance. And when we don't know what to do with the problem of land books, which is a serious problem, then we've just introduced public notebooks, so our rescue solution is public notebooks. Let's finally face reality and reality. I have answers in front of me to counseling questions that I've gotten about things that I've been interested in. To take care of the catastre in Croatia, it takes 167 more years at this pace. 167 years of colleagues and colleagues according to this data I have. Millions and millions of euros have already been spent in the case of the land books and the disaster. And then the ironic proposer in his explanation says he's satisfied with the measures. We're not satisfied with the measures, and that's why we're looking for a break. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116815	Of course the break is approved. Mrs. Katarina Peovic is also looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116816	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front for 10 minutes to look at this law a little more, to warn of its problematic parts. It is particularly problematic for us, therefore, to give public notaries the powers that so far have been conferred on courts, and on the argument that the competent courts are not able to carry out the procedures for the establishment and renewal of the land book with existing personnel capacity. So colleagues and colleagues would probably be the primary task of the state to ensure these capacities, and what is the purpose and purpose of the public records offices is to make as much profit as possible. So what's the goal of the state is to give people the chance that for as little as possible, compensations come true to someone's right. And public service is certainly not a public service, it is a privatization of a public service that continues to move with this law. We had a similar story yesterday. So with one law that went into obsolescence, it's an old law, but there's no question of public notebooks at all, too high a tariff for public record services where people literally pay a field of over 3,000 kuna to get it in the legacy. Or I can't even get it and take it because they don't have the money to pay public notaries who literally peel that social majority for no reason and represent a caste that's clearly protected and which state and this law gives even better benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116817	Thank you. Stanka approves. Mr. Nikola Mazhar, break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116818	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I am looking for a break of ten minutes to point out once again that these amendments to the Law on Land Books continue not only the digitisation of land books and catastras which will be created in the whole process, and that is something that has been regularly done back in the last few years and since 2019 when a new Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Land Books has been passed, but we will also allow for a faster process and registration in land books, but also for the restoration and creation of new land books. And I am sorry that my colleague Peovic has already left the assembly after her brief report of one minute, and in fact she has not read what stands in the amendments and additions to this bill, and among other things, it says that thanks to the fact that the court fees will be applied to the public, the amount will be lower for the users, rather than to go directly through the court, i.e. through the mail, and this will reduce the financial expenses for the citizens who will bear it. Therefore, the incorrect thing has been said by counterpart Peovic that these will gather. In fact, this will reduce the costs for citizens, and with all the newspapers that this proposal brings, therefore, also for public notaries as court commissioners who will work to restore and create new land books but also through full digitisation, so the whole process will be speeded up by the whole process which will also create for investors to create further investments in a faster way, thus increasing the economic picture of the Republic of Croatia. So, this proposal continues with the reform measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116819	Thank you. Stanka approves. Mrs. Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116820	Thank you. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club to once again warn us that in the time of drones and digitalization we still don't have a land book. The beginning was in 2003 when a regulated country was launched. But here we are in 2022 lands not yet in sight. What exactly my colleague writes is that the costs will be lower, it writes, but it also says in this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Land Books that a price rule will be adopted. What a rule it will be, how much it will charge the citizens of the Republic of Croatia it absolutely does not stand anywhere. Notebooks can charge a hundred kuna per cadastrian particle, they can charge 500 kuna. It is not precise anywhere, and what needs to be taken care of is precisely those citizens. We're here for them, I think. It is therefore important to know how much the price of these entries is planned, how much of the state budget will participate as we know it is now participating. I've been funding new catastra measurements by session since 3.6 this year in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, land books need to be arranged, but if this is a step enough, we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116821	He approves of a break. Mr. Hrabak, Hrabak, pardon me, also rests.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116822	It's so respected and respected Vice President HS, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSLS Club and reformers. So, this is a very important law, as colleagues have previously pointed out, HSLS strongly supports any form of information and digitalisation of public administration and this law is going in this direction and we will support certain things, but what we want to further point out is exactly what some colleagues have mentioned before, so the right environment is the only country where the conclusion of a transport contract of real estate is allowed by the hands of filled-in forms that fill out people without any legal experience and often really minimal knowledge, when we add that to it further and when we check the confirmation of signatures that they do not have to have, that not all parties of contracts and the fact that a public notary as an exclusive verifier of signatures do not enter into the contents of the document, and if they still have to do so far without any control and send for implementation in the land book, we are afraid that this could also lead to the possibility that they so-called. The unfair in our society can easily drag and commit certain illegalities in real estate transport. This law is very important, I can speak from practice as mayor, 6. We will need to coordinate land books and catastrases, I welcome any form of digitisation, and in my opinion we will be one of the first cities in Croatia to succeed in doing so, so that this law is very, very important in that segment and I think that we should make more of these illogicalities and certain discrepancies all together so that the law comes out as best in the procedure as the harmonisation of land books is one of the most important things in order to start investment in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116823	He approves of a break. - Mrs. Crescent. Vesna Nadj also pauses.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116824	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club for 10 minutes in order to discuss once again the fact that digitisation is not a rescue for the settlement of land-based state of ownership, especially on islands, Dalmatia, and neither in Croatia, but as Mrs. Zagorje said. Dark-Taritash, our representative, it's going to take 167 years. For the construction of the catastra, land books will probably need more. But my neighbor in Dalmatia has one rescue solution, he settled it in a month with one candy, but we always wonder what was in that candy bar, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116825	It approves of the break and now we continue normally as always by working immediately and Mr. Josip Salapic, the secretary of state will have an opening statement, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116826	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected MPs and MPs. We are aware of the importance of the Law on Land Books, but also of the introduction that I have listened to pauses to say that these years of Croatian statehood have been several different governments, either left or right, so this is not the problem of the current government but the problem of all governments, and some have been ministers in governments, so they know what it means to take care of land books, especially on islands, especially in Dalmatia, when on one particle you have 12-13 registered people who actually have no original right of ownership but have certain rights dating back to the time of Austria-Hungarian, but good. This is the first reading of the Law of Land Books, so there will be more time for discussions, amendments and repairs of what we have imagined as the first reading of the law. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Land Books will speed up the procedures for the establishment and renewal of land books, increase the number of cadastrian particles in the land-book database and ensure the up-to-dateness of land books. Today, the main land book and books of contracted contracts are fully in electronic form. The proposed amendments will ensure that the collection of documents for all proposals adopted after the entry into force of these amendments to the laws is conducted electronically. The whole process of carrying out land-based books is digitised, an electronic land-booking object is introduced, proposals for enrolment in the land-book will be submitted exclusively by electronic means of joining the ZIS system, the common information system of land-books and e-recording systems, the electronic delivery of all court decisions for implementation, and the development of the digital e-laborate has been ensured by electronic submission of application papers for implementation in land-books directly. The adoption of the proposed legislative amendments to the proposals for entry in land books will be submitted exclusively by electronic means and by public notebooks and lawyers. The public notebooks will be obliged to submit a proposal for registration after drawing up a public record act of solemnisation or a certificate of signature on a document which is the basis of the book unless the party explicitly opposes it. Thus, the land books will be updated in a timely manner. Public notebooks will be able to be engaged in the process of establishing and restoring land books. Courts that do not have sufficient numbers of officials will be able to trust public notaries only with the creation and restoration of land books. Public notebooks based in the area of certain courts will be awarded equally in alphabetical order of the name of the public notary. Public notebooks will draw up input plans and deliver it by electronic means to the court for confirmation. This will speed up the procedures for the establishment and renewal of land books. Decisions on the rejection or refusal of a proposal for registration will be submitted from now on to the applicant, but also to persons benefiting from or against whom the entry was proposed. This will provide timely information to all persons involved in the process, i.e. have a legal interest in the process. All consignments will have to have the date of delivery, or the date on which the consignment is left in writing. Time limits shall be laid down for the decision on applications and complaints received within the time limit for correction for courts and for public notebooks. Quality management of land books is one of the preconditions for economic development, but also for the legal certainty of the Republic of Croatia. The regulated property is also the cornerstone of quality management of its own property. The proposed changes will make significant steps in the management of land books in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116827	Thank you, too. We welcome you, please, to welcome the representatives of the Associations of Victims of the Homeland War from the area of the town of Nasic, please give a round of applause. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] Thank you for being with us, and now we're going to the replicas. Katarina, Mrs. Kathrina. Nemet, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116828	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, today's debate on changes and additions to the ULK will be as in my lifetime, one longtime head of the land-booked department, so I will refer exclusively to the profession, but would you please tell me here clearly and loudly, this provision that you are leading and which in one hand monopolize the submission of proposals for entry into land books on the side of public notebooks, will this decision cost more of our citizens in the long run, or will they have to pay more of the court's and public record tariff when submitting the application for registration through public notaries? You're saying now they don't have to, but can you guarantee in the long run that it won't cost our citizens any more? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116829	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116830	Honorable MPs, if according to former Minister Anka Mrak-Taritash, I will not be alive, so I cannot guarantee it, but I am sure that the government's intention is not to be higher than it has to be, and the role of public notebooks is by the court's decision that it can, and not that it has to, for two reasons. Due to the comprehensive big work ahead of us, the comprehensive measurements and short deadlines that we set for ourselves by 2026 60%, so if it comes to court in the given area, say you don't have enough official staff, then, according to the assessment, the Ministry of Justice and the Administration, after the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, what a cost it is to see the availability of staff in courts, and only then can the court hire public notaries if, by the decision of the competent court, it is necessary, with the cooperation of the Ministry of Justice and the administration, to hire a public notary, if it isn't, we will or will hire officials, I will say something later, new or engage public notebooks. That's so he can be hired.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116831	Thank you. Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116832	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. From these explanations of pauses and the net of your explanations, we have heard conflicting opinions, but one thing is for sure, land books are a driver of both economic and all life and unsettled land books create great problems in space. There was an opinion here whether public notebooks will improve the whole process, I think that because I think it will be much faster and what you may not mention, and it is very important, the National Recovery and Resistance plan that has passed into the EC and through which Croatia will achieve grants, too, will partially speed up the process of digitisation of land books in the system and in this way probably won't have to wait 168 years, as Mrs. Dark-Taritash than it'll go much, much faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116833	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116834	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So what I said at the beginning. This is one concern that exceeds both this government and the government before us and the government that will come. So we envisioned in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, this is the continuation of this system A regulated country, somewhere around 3 million euros for this story of land-based book editing, so with those resources that will go from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, which is a legal obligation with the co-financing of the unit of local and regional (regional) administrations and self-government and with certain legal persons who have an interest in certain, therefore, strategic interest in certain units of the local, therefore it will be the means that will be directly invested in this, and our plan that we have drawn up is 60% of the catastrian particles in the Republic of Croatia by 2026 and there is excellent cooperation with certain cities, municipalities and counties on this issue, somewhere more or less. I'm saying what's bothering us is these areas where I said the biggest problems are, where we intend to hire new employees by 2024, all of them in total over 300.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116835	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116836	Thank you, well-respected chairman, Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is certain that the quality of the land book is conditions for the expansion of the investment climate, but it also enables more efficient collection of municipal compensation, which is an important income of units of local self-government or taxes on holiday homes, but also social benefits so that it is safe to introduce such a new way of editing land books, will certainly speed up and improve the quality of the situation in the land books themselves. What I am interested in, however, is probably not in the Law itself a deadline for introducing this possibility to function and edit land books in view of technical possibilities in courts. It's probably 2024, but I'm wondering if the employees will be trained to be able to do their job quality as quickly as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116837	You, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116838	Thank you very much, Your Honor. That is right, it relates to the year 2024 when all the conditions for electronic submission are met, as I said in the opening statement for this Act, the cases and the introduction of public notebooks and other parties to lawyers in this procedure in mandatory electronic communication. So until the conditions for all are met, it will be done in the way that it is now done, and even now this communication in certain categories is submitted by electronic means, so we have what we have if the court fee is paid by electronic means, then it is not 250 kuna but 125 kuna, etc., and we are, by that 2024, as regards the Ministry of Justice and Administration and the State Geodetic Administration and the provision of employment of 150 employees on the part of the Ministry of Justice and Administration, the State Geodetic Administration, another 150, thus strengthening our official staff, along with, of course, compulsory education, without that there is no knowledge in the system. That'll go before this 2024 deadline.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116839	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Raukar-Gamulin
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116840	Excuse me. Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, we will return to payment. So in the introduction, you say on the co-financing agreement of the Land Book Act, it is in line with the general rules on the implementation of the state budget and ensures co-financing of public notaries as Commissioner of the Court of Justice from other sources. So, here, there is some indication that the work into land books through the notebooks could be co-financed, I think that it is, too, agreeing that other colleagues are visiblely, that this is extremely important information and an extremely important thing for our citizens who are pressured by this inflation, that I am now not repeating this general situation which is unfortunately known to us all, and this is a fall in purchasing power, a reduction in wages, inflation, an incredible increase in prices and so on, that it is very important that the burden of this reform is not put on the back of citizens, but not even most of the units of local self-government that are mostly to the point of poverty that they do not have those funds. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116841	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116842	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, as far as I'm concerned, I agree with you, the opinion that citizens should not be allowed to and should not be burdened with new accusations, which is where we can put the point. As for understanding this why the public notebooks in which situation, now give me a chance to tell you why. So, I said where there are not enough officers in the court area based on the assessment of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance, the possibility of hiring public notebooks will depend on the task in the area where the land books should be arranged. Therefore, the cost must be lower if public notebooks are hired, if there are enough employees then we do not need public notebooks, so our assessment is as much as we need until 2026. And as far as co-financing is concerned, it is not mandatory to impose, it depends on the local self-government unit and whether it is possible and whether it is the interest of that unit to co-finance the work of the public notary in order to solve land books and renovations in their area in as short a time as possible, that's the thing now. The local authorities. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] This is the City of Zagreb radio, is the City of Zagreb Municipality of Blato [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] It's done very well. [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116843	Mrs. Anamaria Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116844	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here's the thing, though I have another question. So I am the mayor of a town in Slavonia Pakrac where catastrian measurements are being conducted for six years and precisely because of the lack of personnel in courts, this measure is with other problems and lasts. So I believe that the other mayors and commissioners who are in this problem will agree that it will not be a problem or co-finance public records if this will provide us with a faster, more efficient, more quality procedure and the management and renewal of land books as well as other matters of land-booking and all such laws, all such procedures should be supported, as well as this bill. I would like to know if there will be any further reforms to implement technical solutions, and I think first of all about submitting the parties to the proposal by electronic means and what practices are in other EU countries. Especially in those countries that solve objects faster and efficiently? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, Mrs Blažević.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116845	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116846	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, so we have also followed the practice of our neighbours in EU countries, it is different from country to country. I said that in our country it's quite specific given the territory of the Republic of Croatia, given the state of data and the inequality of data in the cataster and in the land books, that's what we want for a long time in connecting that data. So you have information about the catastro one, about the land books of the other, so it's one whole year's process unfortunately that doesn't go through the way we originally imagined, but the resolution of ownership legal issues requires that in any case you need to determine the property in a way that you finally connected it and settled it. Here you are the mayor, so legal investment security, strategic projects without clear and clear these dimensions, without clean land books, you are in trouble that this key project will not be achieved. So in faith in the truthfulness of land books, we must restore trust in legal certainty for investing in the Republic of Croatia, and this is, in some cases, a problem in some parts of Croatia, because foreign investors will not enter without arranged land books. So ours is common It's an interest to work it out together. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116847	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dragon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116848	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. In my Brod-Posavia County a few years ago, a lot has been done about taking care of land books and cadastrian data, and we have a pretty good situation with regard to the other parts of the Republic of Croatia where the data has been ever since Austro-Hungarian. The biggest problem is land books and ownership issues that the parties themselves need to start, and the problem is that all grants are not the same, they are not all the same agile and there must be little reinforcement by teams that will handle it, and that is exactly the point of the Ministry of Justice and Administration. And from your presentation, I've heard that there will be an increase in human capacity, or that there will be employment of those persons who will work on the implementation, and here's this digitisation that's still yielded results, but we still have a lot to coordinate. Can you comment on that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116849	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116850	Thank you very much. I can do the honourable MPs. So, as far as the frames are concerned, here's precisely and clearly and loudly in 2022. The Ministry of Justice and Administration provides for the employment of 75 civil servants in this year, 49 judicial advisers, 10 senior land-book references and 16 land-book references. Until 1 May 2022 So that's behind us, based on a detailed plan, is employed by 41 state officials, 17 court advisors, 10 extra zk referents and three zk referents. In 2023. The employment of 45 civil servants, 40 judicial advisers and five credentials is envisaged. So, that's the personnel plan now. As for the establishment of a land-book database, so this data that you have told about your Ship-Posavina County where we are well standing, we have cleared that territory down the need for 90% of these litigation cases that are being initiated because of their own legal relations, and that is a big step forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116851	Thank you. Mrs. Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116852	Public notebooks will write a new state in land books, you know what I'm going to ask you, we know what a soloized contract so he guarantees and that the public notebook stands behind the content, and the certified signature therefore or handwritten to a correction which is the basis for the entry now and in the land books is something else entirely different. Do you, in what part of your mind, actually improve that part in order to obtain more orderly land books?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116853	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116854	Thank you very much. You said it yourself about the problem, we have partly already principles in previous replicas, so this mandatory entry by electronic means, where public notebooks as so far as they've done so far are soloizing... We think that what started after the old one won't be a problem anymore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When a new entry is now received, after these changes will go exclusively by electronic means, and that will clean things up. And it's precisely because of this way of starting objects and what we're doing right now that we need these human resources to work on these things. This hand-written is a big problem and it will take us more time than anticipated, which we thought we needed. As you said yourself, I think that we share it has nothing to do with politics that it is a comprehensive procedure and that what I forgot to mention to the people who are working on it, who will be employed in view of all the salaries of civil servants especially our own in courts and land-booked references, we want '23. The year solves this situation so that people are adequately paid for this hard work that they're going to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116855	Thank you. Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116856	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State Salapic, here is how this draft bill introduces exclusively the electronic submission of applications through public notebooks and lawyers in the media has created concerns about whether this will reduce the availability of such services to all of our citizens of the Republic of Croatia and for this reason I think it is good here today to point out that, for this very reason, we have also made it possible for the recent Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Note where we have on the one hand reduced and related to the post-work relationship that it can become a public notary or a neighbour or adviser, as well, to allow that in those places where there is no public notebook seat, administrative time or office days through the decision of the Ministry of Administration and Justice. This service will not be less available than it will certainly be more accessible, and we have heard that there will be lower costs for our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116857	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116858	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So our goal is when we talk about public notaries, the Ministry of Justice and the administration is not a public record lawyer. However, because of the burden of courts on other cases, public notebooks as commissioners of the courts will relieve courts if necessary in such proceedings. We, as the Ministry of Justice and Administration, will regulate with our decision how much this cost can be. Surely the cost will be lower than what is said in public. It wouldn't be the point of an electronic submission of an I.D. to make the cost higher than it is now. I've already said an example of these are these court fees that now go by electronic means they're 50% less. Not because it's an action price, but because it's an incentive for people to realize that the digitalization of the system has its advantages. Now there will always be criticism. We have units of local self-government that come to the ministry themselves asking to start rebuilding land books because of investment of strategic projects and co-finance that cost themselves because they want their own, their own territory cleaned up as soon as possible. Everything is legal, everything is legitimate, and the goal is therefore a regulated land book. That's it. So our joint project, which we all need to support. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116859	Thank you very much. Mr. Katicic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116860	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State, so here means in front of us, I would say in a way that has finally come to the first reading of the amendment and the addition of the Law on Land Books in which it is literally going in some way in the right direction, and that is the digitisation in these modern times so that what is the whole point of our data being in the land books is being updated, or that they are depicting the real state as it is happening on the ground. I would do a little bit now regardless of all these knowing that this is about first reading and that there is another institute so I'm more interested in trying it until the second reading if it's also possible to iron out and that part is taking care of it, and that's an individual land correct land-based book process. What is the relationship now between this digitisation and that part which can supply and resolve property legal but also ensure the registration of relevant cadastar and land The book in that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116861	Mr. Jaksic, excuse me, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116862	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, even though this matter of individual correct procedures is wider than the matter of changing the Law on Land Books, what we have recently recorded is the trend of a faster resolution of individual correct procedures. And if it's all connected together, we need this digitization and... electronic settings in the process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The best time unfortunately, Covida-19 showed how much the judiciary was able to function in a new way of life and when this digitalisation of electronic business in the judiciary proved to be a full hit. We're just moving on now. Now, while you were telling me, I looked at one percent that was in 2021 and '22. a year more than 54% increase in traffic by electronic submissions on these issues. And I think it's a step forward for the future. It'll cost us a lot, but we'll have a landslide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116863	Mr. Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116864	Dear Secretary of State, since you said in the introduction what my tendency is, do you have any clearer analysis at what rate these things will be settled within the system so that we can say that the job is done? How will this reflect on Croatian courts, since we know how many litigation disputes we have on the subject of property legal relations? And you've half mentioned what we're going to do with the salaries of the people who work on those items because I think we all agree that they're hugely underpaid? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116865	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116866	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, we solve this pay system in that whole story until 2023 because the real wages need to be regulated and given to people in terms of the time we live in and the work and the scope of the work and the corresponding schools that people have and with us in the system are too little and we want to correct that injustice. However, of course this is an assessment of the impact on the entire state budget, but in this system of justice all of our officers working in courts will have adequate salaries in relation to what we have now. I said now I don't repeat because of the time that we're going to hire these 2022, 2023, 2024. 150 of our employees, 150 DGU. So, all this to work, we're making an assessment that by 2024 this system should be fully resuscitated. By then, he'll be right and paid, and then we'll have people in our competitions who want to answer. Unfortunately, it's hard to find personnel when we announce a tender under such conditions. So, first of all, there's a pay increase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116867	Thank you. Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116868	I would like to thank the Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Thank you for this bill of law. Only the improvement of systems and catasters and land books, the acceleration, the simplification of the process in particular of the development of this e-communication system and e-Croatia, I think it is necessary for the Republic of Croatia to do so today. I'm curious about the ministry, maybe we should expand the subject a little bit, if there's any possibility or guidance to courts or suggestions because we see a big difference, i.e. We need to simplify the system ourselves in the sense that if the items concern a garage or a large tourist complex are treated equally in courts no matter how much the state loses money if they do not solve a particular system. And the consequence of the cases where public authorities have certain actions among themselves, the resolution of certain... or the assignment of land between the state and the state of the university, the city, the municipalities, the county. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's often been going on for years, and everyone's okay with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116869	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116870	Thank you very much, counsel. It's a subject for more debates and more laws. What is good here, so the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia is not equally arranged in terms of land-booking, and then we look at which courts it is less, so these cases are being relocated further to help certain parts of Croatia get rid of it faster. I said it was all a system of connected vessels. This system's information will affect the way you deal with the process faster, and what's most important, so in this data, when you know exactly who owns the property now, you know who you're dealing with, who you're dealing with. When you have a few registered until it's proven-law, so you have different data in the cataster, and the others in the land book are destroying that system together. So, I wish I could come and tell you that we're here now 100 percent of it worked out. Here we are, unfortunately, up to 10%, but I believe that what I said in 2024 is how we plotted 60%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116871	Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116872	Secretary of State, I don't know if you've seen the Rangers and the game. Namely, there's one Thanos out there, he snaps his fingers and turns half the universe into dust. So HDZ broke his fingers and turned the Croatian judiciary into dust. In a concrete case, dust has turned trust in land books, that's what this law does. I would have told my colleagues who had been putting replicas before me if this wasn't the main problem of how much it would cost public records, it would have cost us infinitely, actually, because we gave them powers by this proposed law that public notebooks shouldn't have. In fact, you gave public notaries the power to reshape land books. That's the line that shouldn't have been crossed, not just to the public's notaries, but to the neighbors. What's next? The secretary? Driver? Anyone gonna be able to touch and scratch where they can't?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116873	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116874	Dear MPs, thank you very much for the comment that goes beyond what I am discussing today. I don't know if you've seen the movie Lost in Translation? So, if you wanted to contribute to your debate to say that this is bad or good you could have done it, but your obsession with HDZ, the government, Prime Minister Plenkovic, is beyond land-booking law reform, so I leave it to you to look at this film of mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116875	Please! Please, please, please. Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116876	Thank you, Vice President. Here's the secretary of state, that if I could snap the same fingers and solve all the problems, I'd be happy to, but I can't. I hope that this law will solve a lot of problems that are now and that Croatian people will not have the problems they have had so far. I will only read here the article, the amendments that mean in Article 108 of Article 106, which, on the basis of a private public document, more persons have acquired the same right in their shares. The court will register all persons who have acquired the right in accordance with the documents delivered. Does that mean that by now someone could sign up for who was first or who I don't know by which order, and the others who had the right couldn't sign up for it? And my second question is, if some real estate is loaded, is it possible for local self-government units to sign up for that property, break into somebody's apartment, and whoever had the right, the rent right stays on the street. Now it takes him 30 years to claim his right, and the question is whether or not he'll be welcomed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116877	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116878	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Now we've already gone from amending the law to possible lawsuits. So there's a problem besides what you said. I say we don't repeat much that these changes will solve this mess in the system that's really what the forest of disorder can say. Unfortunately, it is a time that the countries behind us have been doing so differently, so this trust and the right to ownership is something that is extremely important to us. You mentioned these articles. I would say another article 105, which is intended for all proposals to be submitted exclusively by electronic means, that it will be known precisely when it is resolved, it will be immediately visible that everything is clean and neat when it comes to registration and implementation of property. And why the public notebooks, the lawyers, I said that this urgency of solving and the time we have left until 2024 can't all of this staff just finish the job. So, the thing is positive and should be supported. We have two readings. We can correct any legal gaps if they are found.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116879	Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116880	My dear secretary, you have mentioned the problem with the staff several times, there are not enough people to finish the job. And now we're late for enrollment in land books, in some courts a month, two, some five, six months depending on how crowded it is. Since the introduction of the electronic exchange system between public notaries, i.e. lawyers, law offices and land books in 2017, this procedure has been accelerated greatly. Despite the fact that contracts are concluded in various forms that are prescribed, some are not prescribed, some do so on their own unequivocally, and then it is brought to the public notary who then corrects it and scans and sends it to the court, there are still errors. In the Law, you wrote that requests for a book could, or a proposal for a book, also be submitted to citizens. Won't that stifle the courts with incorrect and incorrect demands?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116881	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116882	Thank you very much, Your Honor. If there are any mistakes, we will correct them. It is not the purpose of this Law to burden the courts, even, what I have said, and the aim is to relieve the courts and help the courts in certain seats and areas to resolve this complex issue as quickly as possible. We have so far withdrawn a lot of funds and employed a number of people, we have a big problem, so in certain areas of Croatia, but find quality personnel in view of the salaries that people had in the system. So this co-financing of local self-government units and their role in this, together with the state, together with stakeholders, should solve this problem. Of course, this Law, now, is neither the first nor the last, we discussed it in 2019, the walking error that we are now intending to correct, and also, to link this e-Spis, e-Notar and the system that has the databases of land-based data which, I personally hope, and believe in experts, will speed up these proceedings. That should be the purpose of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116883	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116884	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State, you said that 60% of the land books will be taken care of by 2024. I am actually interested in those 40% since they also burden their courts with their disputes, citizens wait 8 to 10 years to resolve some land-marked situation in court. Could you find a system that would speed up that, the type of legalization of objects like it was illegal, because it's all holding back investment, not only private but public, and I think it's just that, and we have this ZIS, the Joint Information Centre with the State Geodetic Authority, so if there's something that can be done in a faster time, so to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116885	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116886	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Of course he can. I said that this necessary change came as a product of the situation on the ground and a product of the opinion of the people working on this. I said until 2024. 60% of cadastral particles, particles, so we're somewhere here now, 7, between 7 and 8%, so this electronic digitalized system, the people we're going to hire inside, the even distribution on the ground should lead to the goal that I said, 60% of the particles, that's our obligation to withdraw 3 million euros from the National Recovery and Resistance plan, and that's just a small part of what we need, part of it is the state budget, is part of the local self-government unit. So this is a common table where we should sit, in the Ministry of Justice and Administration come a number of mayors and mayors of municipalities who themselves offer cooperation to open up land books because they have projects that they can't take because there's no legal status arranged. Well, in that sense, we've been going through these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116887	Dear Representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116888	Dear State... when other problems arose because the judiciary had not had enough resources, so cities and municipalities hired writers, provided equipment, bought photocopier computers, everything else they needed. [[Specially enabled.]] [[Intruder Rainer: Microphone, microphone turn on, please.]] I suggest that in this part, which is to say hello, if the goal of all this is to speed up the handling... to publicly distinguish the obligations of the units of local self-government and the Ministry of State throughout the process of not reaching the wandering that the presidents of the court with the mayor, agree on models to pay the court staff, the notary, hire someone or not to hire, and this part of the notes' costs, we will only see how to define it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116889	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116890	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You have a lot of internships on the local field and as mayor, so I agree with you and there will be a need to agree with the Ministry to make an agreement exactly when it comes to a specific area, a particular municipality, etc., so that there will be no reflection of different views. So nothing will happen without having to record the ground before, to see in collaboration with the local community how much it is, how many people it takes, what we can give as a state, what a unit of local self-government can do and in which time we will achieve the goal. It is precisely these changes to prevent these wanderings, to say by quotes, salting on the ground where things have been happening, unfortunately, it can always be fixed for the better. I believe that there is room now in this important law to overcome now some level of spit on anything that is not on this side or on the ruling side. This is a provision for the future and security of all those who will come after us and will therefore bring investment and investors to Croatia and provide new jobs. It should be a positive story, not a negative political one, only that has something to do with why HDZ is in power. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116891	Thank you. Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we'll stop by this point now because it's been 1 hour and we'll be taking a stand on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. And I am opening a debate on the point to remind you, we have started this with the point of the Amendment Act and the additions of the Law on Land Books, and the first one will be spoken by the respected representative Ante Kujundzic. Here you go. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116893	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, Mr Bukarica, respected colleagues and colleagues, otherwise in Croatia in a legitimate sense and in the needs of citizens, we can compare them with the Zenon paradox of movement in the race of Achilles and turtles where Achilles is synonym for the needs of citizens and the turtle for legal legislation. If I were to try politically and look back at these changes, then I could have a bug by tomorrow's shortcomings that aren't covered. If I were to perform politically again and ask for the minuses of the aforementioned public notebooks, this one, then I'd have something to add to it again. However, if I look at the essence and it is the ultimate need to speed up everything that we find on the ground from the domain of the land library departments, then certainly this change can be welcomed and expected that what is really going on on the ground will actually be consumed on a daily basis by our citizens, so I believe that everyone here in a certain period of time will speed up and lead to land-booking procedures and everything that leads to the very landowner himself is drastically accelerated because we must not forget that in fact 60% of the investments that are coming or that should come from abroad largely do not come thanks to slow administration. I believe these changes will reduce that percentage. This law is and we could actually say that it's just a leaf of cabbage that we have all the way through what a certain citizen needs to go through to get a certain zk extremity. I'm going to mention here a paradox that we have today, and I believe you're the Secretary of State to meet him. It's a lack of garters. Especially in the town of Trogir, and even more specifically, if we're talking about Little Drvenik. And you can't win the excerpt, and then you can't even go into the process of realising a certain loan, and then you can't even build something that would make you into a family home or a particular tourist facility to create added value. Of course it's not my fault, not you, not this one, not that one. However, that problem remains for you. In which way he will be resolved is now a question for you. It is quite clear and the intensity of switching or giving greater importance to the public notaries themselves since we know that the relatively low rate of deficit is more or less in all landers. We also know that the vast or actually that large majority of courts mentioned the Municipal Court in Makarska that was overcrowded with objects from this domain. What I would suggest to you as one of the solutions in the future, if we are talking about civil departments where one of the defendants of the Republic of Croatia is that state attorneys ad hoc on the spot pass a verdict and that an immediate proposal for a book is actually being drawn up on the spot. I think I'm telling you again from practice, so it would drastically speed up and relieve the courts that could, of course, commit to everything that this country, the citizens, is really holding back. What I wouldn't like and what I'm afraid of is that something similar happened to us in November 2018 when the Island Act was passed. Therefore, the Government has committed itself, based on Article 21(3), to produce, within two years, a programme for the editing and handling of cadastres and land books on the islands themselves. We know it didn't happen. In other words, then, the government did not respect what was legally its obligation. Again, I don't want to throw wood and stones at you, but what I'm appealing to you is that something like this wouldn't have happened to us here. The truth is that in our daily life we should try, and sometimes a trap, sometimes we should take a certain wrong step, but we will certainly come to a solution. So that's how I want everyone here in this assembly to keep an eye on what these changes are going to bring us and to be open to the solutions regardless of which side of the assembly they came from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116894	On behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, the respected representative, Željko Pavić, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116895	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I wouldn't want it to turn out that there's nothing good about this law. So there are good things in the law, efforts are good. Whether we've taken the right steps, or whether the real proposals are in the law itself, I think they're not, and I'm going to try to warn you about what we're seeing as a big problem right now. Later on, I will work something out in my speech and after that in the final word. But what we must mention is that, in fact, the law mentions the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, point C) 2.5. R1 where it says in point 2.5 that we actually want to have a modern judiciary ready for future challenges. It is clear and the secretary correctly said in his opening speech that we currently have problems with staff and secretaries we need to be aware that when we have these problems and when we hire people, because these people need to undergo training, we need to train them, and the problems will be present for a while until these people are able to get better, and until they start working at a full pace so that all those tasks and objectives that were foreseen by this law can be achieved. I'll just remind you that point 2.5 says that, in fact, the goal is to further strengthen public policies in the judiciary with increased digital transition. And today most of us here were actually talking about this digital transition. We talked about what digital problems are and what are the data exchange problems. We must first and foremost ask one question, and that is whether we will today when we have the money available to build complete and reliable systems. I'm talking about information systems, or we're going to do random failures in the construction of information systems that will allow anarchy, congestion, ineffectiveness of delays, etc. etc. According to the secretary, in the opening statement, the aim is to increase efficiency, increase awareness, speed of entry, speed of response, and I think it is therefore a minimum that we can expect to at least consider our proposals to avoid the problems we have seen. A colleague, Hrebak, already reminded that Croatia, Croatia, in a legal environment, is the only country where the conclusion of a transport contract of real estate is allowed by the hand of filled-in forms that fill out people without any legal experience and with often minimal knowledge. We don't think it would be a good idea for them to be corrected without any control and later sent for implementation in land books. That is why I have also set up a secretary on the predicate of proposals for enrolment in land books that will work for the citizens themselves, which is stated in this law. In fact, the law states that citizens will be able to do so by handing over these registration requests, i.e. the registration proposal will be able to work through the e-Citizen system. However, it is not, of course, within the law, nor should it be, it will probably be written in a rule that will be prescribed by the minister, what the controls that will exist in that system for the registration of those entries or the proposal for entry in the land books will look like. Here someone had a debate in the debate mentioned that it is not acceptable to give the law the right to public notaries to form new land books, but it does not actually appear in the law. The law says that if it's actually going to be necessary to give the President of the Court, then it just exists as a possibility. So we don't have to blow on the cold here because the legislator predicted that it was happening in extraordinary cases. And let us not forget that even today, you cannot make an entry into a book by any person if it is not a court or if it is not an employee in a court of law. So, writing rights or pardon documents by unauthorized persons today is a fairly widespread practice in the Republic of Croatia, and this is consequently reflected in the problems that we have in the judiciary and in the problems that happen to us when we do business. We consider it necessary, in view of the additional pre-control of contract conclusion and fill-in of the necessary data, to give this conclusion to the contract and to fill in the necessary information to legal professionals. These experts do so today, but they only do so by choice of parties today. So it's about lawyers, it's about lawyers' offices and public notebooks, or natural and legal persons who are qualified to make and fill out such forms. What I'm saying right now doesn't mean we have to put financial burdens on the party. Why? There will be more quality data if this business of contracting, data filling will be carried out by an expert, and the state has reason to pay for this job because there will be no return to the parties and I think there is a real reason to set a tariff for these officials or natural and legal persons who would possibly be doing that job, or that if the minister so prescribes that one part of the deal will be divided, given that there will also be additional service of the day to the parties who will come to those natural and legal persons to get them that contract, so we have that space. In addition, let us not forget that these persons, meaning lawyers, lawyers' offices and public records under the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the financing of terrorism, are defined as prevention bodies or bonds of implementation of that law, but only if they assist in the planning or conduct of transactions for a party in connection with the purchase or sale of real estate or stakes, which would mean that in the event that the contract is concluded with a public notary, that the contract is concluded with a lawyer or in a lawyer's office, that would mean that they have an obligation to do a deep check depending on the degree that they have determined that case in the conclusion of the contract or of the data. So this could be grade 1,2,3 so if necessary then there is an additional analysis, of course in collaboration with the institutions that actually oversee this procedure means that it is the Tax Administration, it is the HANFA, it is the CNB that has tools, it has the ability to do business and not just one but to do three jobs at the same time, and to benefit from it and to pay it in a certain way, without paying the party or our citizens. Also to make it a little bit clearer what is being said here, I will say as I have already said that Croatia in the legal environment is the only state that has this conclusion of a contract based on the hand of written forms. For example, BiH has a law saying that the contract will necessarily be concluded at the notaries or as we say in the public notary. This is also the case in Serbia, a similar case, we could talk about it a little later, I'll try to explain it a little bit, but I think it's another important thing that is also important in the BiH law that both sellers and buyers must be present at the conclusion, which is not the case with us right now, so it's the same for the secretary and the team that writes the law to see what and how to do. Now why is it necessary to remove forms filled with hands to say so on a sheikel in which there were crumbs or in order for our Dalmatians to say on a scissors or scissors I think we should think twice about it because today we have the opportunity to make electronic forms that we can fill out digitally and then digitally, and exchange the data in quality. And there's no need for these data to be inserted manually into two, three or five systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116896	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116897	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116898	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's club, the respected representative Urša Raukar Gamulin will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116899	Thank you. So, the government of the Republic of Croatia has been through the Ministry of Justice and Administration and the State Geodetic Administration since 2003. Launched by the National Programme for Land Books and Catastra of the shortened name "Organised country" within which the Joint Information System of Land Books and Catastra was developed, so-called "Common Information System of Land Books and Catastra". Zis. However, it is known that even today, in 2022, land books in Croatia are not arranged or close. We are witnessing unscheduled entries in land books, as well as a large number of unsolved old items, a lack of harmony of land book with a disaster and still a large number of entries of apartments in books of contracted contracts for which no connection of dwellings and land has been conducted. For example, for example, in the City of Zagreb, land books were not restored for as many as 23 catastrian municipalities for which the new cadastrian measurements were carried out in 1968, but only in the cataster, so in the metropolis we have in the land book the old Catastrian municipality of the City of Zagreb, which for over 50 years in the catastran corresponds to 11 catastrian municipalities, including the Center, Maksimir, Pesćenica, Tresnjevka, Črnomerec and others. Although the city of Zagreb is an up-to-date catastre, new measurements and thousands of geodetic elaborates have been carried out annually, the difficult environment is an uncoordinated land book older than 100 years. Therefore, for the ultimate result, which is the consistency of the catastra, land books and conditions in nature, it is necessary to adopt regulations that will provide legal certainty after half a century for citizens, speed up investment realisation, enable implementation of projects and economic development as a whole, and primarily enable effective spatial planning and green transition. The proposed amendments and additions to this Act are a step in the process of restoring the land book, since it enables the provision of business for the establishment or renewal of the land book and public records. This will, hopefully, speed up the process, and it is particularly important that the Minister's decision to establish and restore will determine and restore the deadline within which the renewal procedure must be completed, Article. 18. We are witnessing the fact that certain cadastrian measurements and new catastrian operatives have been waiting in the drawer for years to begin rebuilding the land book. It is so in the City of Zagreb k.o. The granezina is new within 2 years measured as a whole and has confirmed a new elaborate of catastrian measurement, and then for years the court's readiness to begin renovations that began intensively only after 5 years. It is also in the process of rebuilding the z.k.a. k.o. Chuchers that suffered the most from the earthquake, the measurement and production of elaboratical measurements ended in 2014, and the reconstruction of the land book began in 2020 and is now under way. So it's been waiting six years with the beginning of the renovation of the land book. Then rebuild the land book for the city's nearest center and that's for k.o. The centre and Trešnjevka, started in 2005 and is not yet finished or likely to be, and is being carried out by court officials. For k.o. The centre is only 30% of the particles, but for k.o. The cherry's only 15%. As a reason for the postponement of land-book jobs, there is always a lack of available expert resources by the court, and what problem is planned to be solved, as we have heard today, by the additional employment of 150 experts in the following, I think, 2 years in courts, but also by trusting the public notaries. The only thing you don't know yet is how much it's going to cost and who's going to pay for it. Whether this cost, the cost of public notebooks, will go exclusively to the burden of taxpayers, i.e. the unit of local self-government, or the owners of the property which is subject to renewal, will be committed to financing the costs of public notebooks, i.e. Rewards and fees referred to in Article. 20, it is now impossible to assume how much of these fees and rewards will be, namely, prescribed by the Minister by some regulation that will just come, which we consider an important segment, the consequences of these amendments and additions. In fact, the secretary of state said it would be in the interest of local self-government units to engage and co-finance public notebooks, but it is forgotten that most local self-government units do not have funding and therefore need to finance these needs from the state budget, and whether public notebooks and educated for this new role they are given is also an open question. We have one proposal, so we propose an amendment to the article, the law in Article. 19th century 1 in a way to erase words based on catastrian measurement. Therefore, it shall read, after the court has adopted a decision and an opinion referred to in Article 1(1). 175 of this Law, the President of the Court may entrust the procedure for the establishment or renewal of the land book to the public notary for the following reasons. Laws in Art. 183 prescribes the procedure for the establishment and renewal of the land book according to the data of an existing cadastrian operative in its official use because the situation does not require a new cadastrian measurement. If that text is submitted, Article 1(1) shall apply. 19 does not delete, would exclude the possibility of entrusting business to public notaries to rebuild the land book according to the existing catastro, and that would potentially mean a major problem, e.g. in the City of Zagreb, where land books are mainly not restored according to catastrian measurements, and the catastrian operat is sufficiently up-to-date and land books need to be restored by this opera because new measurements will not be carried out and neither would they be economical. It is a series of catastrian municipalities that have been in use since 1968, for which no land book has been restored, and as I have already said, we have a situation in the land book of the City of Zagreb, and in the cataster, over 50 years of 11 catastrian municipalities. In the area of the entire city of Zagreb, catastral measurements were carried out for 28 catastrian municipalities, in the period from '62. until the 1970s, and land books were restored for only 5 catastrian municipalities and of that for 3 municipalities incompletely. So for 23 catastrian municipalities in the capital of the Republic of Croatia, the land-use situation has been uncoordinated and is one of the most important obstacles for the economic development of the city and investment and investment in development and, of course, the necessary green transition is now because we face unresolved property relations at every turn. The picture of the City of Zagreb is easily changed to the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. It is also not possible for this reason to make complete and accurate land and real estate registers owned by either the Republic of Croatia or the City of Zagreb, which is a prerequisite for an efficient availability of real estate. For example, when for a particle that exists in the catastrus and in reality you have, according to the identification of parts of a dozen land particles, where the land book contains state property or the ownership of a cooperative or registered owners of the unknown 1928, we really cannot talk about trust in the land book. There are about 130,000 cadastar particles in the City of Zagreb, which do not have a suitable land-marked particle because the land-book data has not been restored or updated. The amendment of this law and the possibility of entrusting the work of the restoration of the land book to public notaries may be an opportunity for the city of Zagreb to finally begin to renovate the land book after more than 50 years because the existing resources of the competent courts are obviously not possible or possible. It is only necessary to see that the change is not financed by citizens, and the units of local self-government I repeat in the territory of the Republic of Croatia are not all able to finance such efforts. He says on the web welcome to a regulated country. It's been two decades since. Shall we finally welcome that Croatia truly becomes a regulated country. They were alive and seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116900	On behalf of the IDS Representatives' Club, the honourable representative, Katarina Nemet, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116901	Dear Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, refering to this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books, may at the very beginning welcome its particular good interests. First of all, the aim of the proposer or the lawmaker is to amend and supplement the advanced quality of data covered by the land books. This positive shift will certainly reflect on greater legal certainty in real estate transport, easier realisation of investments as well as easier achievement of credit obligations, and will also significantly help local self-government, for example, to collect public or holiday taxes. These changes and additions have therefore certain positive sides but there are both those less good and positive or at least dubious. I will warn, for example, of Article 105(1) of which the provision states that the proposal for entry in the land book will be able to submit exclusively to public notebooks and lawyers by electronic means. It also concerns the provision of Article 105(3) which obliges public notaries to submit a proposal for entry in land books after the establishment of the documents. Therefore, the possibility of filing in the land-marking department of the competent court is abolished and the possibility of the party itself to submit a proposal for registration is abolished. The proposer argues and explains this through the alleged simplification and explication of the very process of submitting the proposal, but I think it is quite legitimate to ask whether it will indeed be so. I'm afraid that in this way nothing special will be accelerated or simplified only the lines in front of one will be created in front of the other door. That's it. The pressure of end-users or parties will only be moved from courts and their land-marking departments to public and law offices. Will that speed up the process? I wish I was wrong, but I doubt it. Which of these will benefit? I'm sure Stanke won't. The only thing this will accomplish is that the money of end-users i.e. The party ends up in the hands of public notebooks and lawyers instead of in the public register. There's also a cost-of-service announcement. But, in general, I would say flat-rate without the indication of the amounts. Whether it's meant to be court fees, but it doesn't stand anywhere, and no one can guarantee that public notebooks and lawyers won't charge that favor of theirs over which they now have a monopoly. The court fees may well be less, but the notebooks and lawyers will not charge their favor for it. And here I would like to repeat that I am wrong, that practice will deny me and that parties, our citizens, entrepreneurs and everyone else will actually come to these services in the future faster, easier and cheaper. I wish. Time will soon show whether things have really improved by this law, or for a small man, everything remains essentially the same except now standing in the long lines in front of some other door, and giving their money into some other hands. Here, it should be said that the whole process of digitising land books, and so mentioning the submission of proposals for enrolment in land books is exclusively electronic in theory, sounds good and seems to move better because the digitisation of land books and catastra itself as a process that has been taking place in Croatia for some time is certainly a positive thing, since it should be possible to resolve the subject more quickly, faster and easier access to land books, and ultimately a clearer and more credible picture of the situation on the ground. But how often it is a theory and ideas are one thing, and their realization and practice are something else. Something that should have been simple and reliable in practice has rarely proved unreliable, and what should have been faster because of the errors and failures in the procedure, so the human factor often turns out to be slower, longer and more complicated. According to the information I have from the field, there are very specific situations that support this. In fact, this option of electronic submission of proposals for entry into land books by public notebooks and lawyers has existed for some time. It's not a newspaper. The novelty proposed by the amendments to the law is that it becomes the only way to submit proposals for registration when documents are drawn up by public notebooks. So it is now happening that these proposals that have been submitted, i.e. filled in the notebooks and lawyers are missing with smaller or larger errors and wrong data and are being entered into the digital system. By applying the new law, it will only become more common. There will be even more incorrectly entered data and documents, including major and serious failures such as abandoning so-called. a flat ground-book cartridge when there is a necessary need for it. For example, after the realisation of the purchase contract or the establishment of the right to publishing. Not to go too far into the details of the profession, I will stress only that the procedure is extremely important for the legal security of real estate, and whose absence can cause many unwanted property and legal problems and disputes. When your land books are the only business you're dealing with, as is the case with land-booked references, then this is what I'm talking about is an unforgivable practice, something that's meant and there's no dilemma or failure. But when it is in some way a secondary job, one of the many other legal areas you are dealing with, then unfortunately, there are gaps that will be even more in the future. When land books are too difficult to deal with, those who do not have what it would call a corporate basic business today. They will obviously need additional education, instruction, and control systems if it proves necessary. In short, the current way of working when the land-booking procedure has already begun to pass through the hands and professional control of the referents is the most reliable and secure. And this reliable and secure way of working these amendments will be abolished. Smart enough. I will therefore repeat the digitisation and modernisation of yes, but with concrete and visible benefits and not as my own purpose. I will refer to the provision of a new law which implements the adoption of a new rule on criteria for the work of land-booked officials, which will set new standards among others, i.e. quantify the work of officials and officials. On the one hand, we should, of course, commend the intention of encouraging greater and better efficiency, but on the other hand, the question of what standards will be prescribed whether they will be realistic and enforceable. Here you should be careful and keep in mind, that only by qualified the number of solved items directly affecting the quality and reliability of the performance of the job and in favour of the quantity and prescribed figures. Does the promoter know that not all ZK objects are equally demanding, that for some it takes less, for some far more time, engagements and attention. It's a business that can't be renumbered and quantified so easily. There, officials and officials will be placed in quite an uninvited position, and this should be really taken into account. And speaking of the recent imposition of new norms and some new obligations to officials, I will remind myself of a government commitment to them that has not been carried out. I have already warned for this speaker that employees in the judicial bodies of the Republic of Croatia, among others, and land-booked referents and referents in 2019, were wronged when they were found among officials and officers of the judicial authorities who were not like other colleagues covered by the salary increase of 9%. I will remind you, the reduced coefficient of time in 2019 was once again increased only by part of the court officials, but a good part of them, including the ICC, remained at a reduced coefficient and inaccessible to small salaries. It is therefore that in the tendering for employment in the ZK departments, the courts have no interest at all, just as it is not a rare occurrence and that already employees leave all because of low incomes, too much work and inadequate working conditions. This is not good at all, for it is an important part of the judicial system that needs professional, capable, and motivated people in its ranks. So I'm going to conclude this exhibit with the view that this law has its own good, but also less good. But what is equally important and what I would like to especially point out is that, apart from the good laws of every public system, ZK departments should also mention more clearly professional, capable and motivated people. We take care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116902	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, a respected representative, Katarina Peovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116903	Good afternoon. I think it would be very good for the secretary of state to answer some of the questions that have been asked here, and I think they're crucial. One of them is whether we're actually going to get a more effective system by transferring jobs to public notebooks that aren't originally trained to do that job. So they have no experience that means fate, which means people who work in courts in land and book departments. And secondly, it is not clear how many people will pay for it because it is nowhere determined how much this service will cost in a public notary that determines its autonomous tariff as we all know it is extremely high. And here, in the bill of law, it literally promises to be unseen, that it will be cheaper, that it will be faster. But there's no analysis of why it would be cheaper, why it would be faster. Here you can see: “The courts are not able to carry out properly with existing personnel capacities the procedures for the establishment and renewal of the land book.” Great! So the state practically admits that she has no interest in doing what her basic job is. In other words, if you say there's no way to do a job that's actually intended for her, which means, we're not willing to pay, and colleague Nemet was talking about it. So give these officers and tenants finally the wages they can live on. You took off their coefficients, you haven't raised your wages in years. The judges got a raise, officials and a tenant got a raise, that's a lousy salary. So it's a completely unacceptable argument, that we're going to outsorcing, because it's outsourscing classic, solve the problem now because the state has no interest in paying the employees and the tenants what they should pay. Ousorcing we know how it ends, neither cheaper for the state nor is it extremely useful for those users, means good, nor is it ultimately fair because the state is here to organise this process, and for years we have chaos in land books and that is the task of the state to solve it. So it's not known how much and what regulation will define the costs of a public notary, it's not clear why it would be faster if the public notebooks were completely untrained to do these jobs and, as counterpart Nemet said, do 100 other things and why they would now know this better than the people who have been doing it in courts for years. Yesterday we had in the debate the final draft law on the termination of the Law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts and abolished an old law, but we did not exactly replace it with something better because I will warn, such old laws were allowed to do what public notebooks today do in their incredibly and unacceptablely high tariffs, by state officials practically free of charge. The public service, as the public record lobby wishes to be praised, would be public if it were free or extremely cheap. Accessibility is not achieved by what we listened to for hours yesterday about this law, digitization. Digitalisation does not mean availability of service. This does not mean the availability of services. The service is available when it is free. It is known to mean a case of which it is written and free, and such cases you know and all the countless, a citizen in which a public notary in the desert procedure has charged 3400 kuna for the meaning of inheritance, a lot of people have this experience, to inherit something, a meadow, that they can't pay a public notary because it's ridiculously high tariffs and practically desert procedures can't be completed because people don't have the money for something they inherited. This is because there is a rule on tariffs in public notes that is completely inadequate, which means everything means real estate and property more than 60 thousand kunas in the same category instead of being gradually charged. To make some classes and make people pay, considering what they inherited and what they have, right? Practically regardless of the value of the property you have to pay 3000 kuna, it is a standard example, but this example, as well as countless others, shows only the adverse consequences and interference of public and private and should be publicly said here, public notation is basically privatizing part of the judicial system and the state apparatus. The judicial system is systematically destroyed by corruption and low investment, too few people are employed, and those who have hired must be politically alike. I'm going to give you one example, so for the entire Croatian judiciary in 2020, 38 trainees were scheduled to be hired. 38, all year long. For comparison, according to the Croatian Attorney's Office, 51 trainees were employed at the Hanžeković Law Society and partners at the time. So one private lawyer, a lawyer has more than the entire state has hired in one year. In such conditions, of course, there is a system overload, and those who have produced this overload now propose further privatisation of the part of the system. It is the same model as with any other case of privatization and outsourcement, as with any privatisation and outsourcement, the result is more expensive service, public funding leaks, lower level of protection of rights. In the case of public records, the problem is even bigger because this enabled a small group of people in 2019 to have 330 public offices active in Croatia. That the monopoly is above something that should be available to everyone and there really should be a public service. Like a citizen from that article. from a free point of view, he should have no reason to doubt the integrity of an official authorised by the state to decide on his rights, however, in a system in which that person acts primarily with a view to making a profit, it is clear that trust cannot be compared to a liberal attack on the public sector where it is often heard that the sealers are working there, the public notebooks are the ultimate strikers of the seal. For one favor that takes a few minutes, we'll charge him 50 to 3,000 kuna without blinking. I appeal to the secretary of state to answer these questions, so questions are asked whether it's a better service, why it's outsourced to state public notebooks, and why it's really believed, so there's some normative optimism here, that things are going to be cheaper, and it's going to be faster, that it's going to be better for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116904	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the honourable representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116905	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. I'm thinking about starting from the end or the beginning, and I'll try somewhere reasonable. When you go to change and supplement laws related to land books, then you need to know what your goal is and what it is to you together. Can we all agree that our problem is catastris and land books? Whether we can all agree together where our cadastre and land books are arranged, we can see significantly larger economic activities, and not to say that units of local self-government, where these devices have more income than certain municipal contributions or communal fees, we can agree. Would we need a priority? It is. Did we agree there in 2000 that this would be our priority and let's see what we did from 2000 to 2022? I'll be telling the data that's as fresh as I can and that I've gotten through my representation issues. So, from the State Geodetic Administration, I received a reply that since 13 April 2022 that of the 3,417 catastrian municipalities of 2000, a measurement or technical reambulation was made for 397 catastrian municipalities, but for 237 catastrian municipalities, cadastrian measurements were carried out and were placed for them in the official use of the cadastrian operat. When you kind of do math and compare it to 3,417, 237 of those that are arranged and which, for which you can use the ZIS and everything else directly takes us 167 years to do it. Then I was interested in the money that we spent on the ZIS, so I was the one who we all forgot existed in this government, and that was the first time Darko Horvat asked about the ZIS how much money was spent through different forms today through a project called the Ordered Land. So I got my first answer on November 2nd last year where it tells me about, where we have about 6m euros left over from that we have 3m 757 euros, so 3m 75,000 euros to pay by '31. years, but I had some other data so they weren't lazy then I asked for a supplement because in the Government of 2018 and 2019 I saw that some more loans were being raised so that we had spent around 19.7m euros for this project of the Joint Information System in terms of the country so far. And this is the result we're talking about. So, the ZIS is the perfect system, the Joint Information System, I have nothing against it that works perfectly when you have two exact data, when everything is solved in the catastrus and when it's in the grant and then you have in the garter everything and you get the exact information, you sit at home, you get everything on your computer, you list, you have that it's an unofficial copy, but you know that you're going to get an official copy. But as long as we don't have the information while you're in the catastrophe, I'm going to really unscramble that the particle is 333 squares, and there's no way out of 345 squares in the turret until you pair it together. I really do, so we have all these topics that we're talking about with more emotion, less emotion, more or less experience. My colleagues and colleagues, we are not going to solve this problem until we have a joint cadastre and grantovnica, in the same place and at the same time. I was involved in the measurement, or I know that the measurements were made, that the measurements behind that came about by the garter, waited 2-3 years, after 2-3 years, the situation in the space changed in a way that you didn't anymore, it was no longer current. So, the money they gave for the measurements, open the window and throw out the window because you couldn't spend any further in the garter because there were no people who would work. Let's be honest, there weren't any people from the garter who would do it. How do you solve this problem? So I'm still today, every time from this pay phone when I talk about the state of the room I'm talking about, in my opinion the only right solution is to make a common cadastre and grantovnica, do one procedure, in one procedure go to solve everything from the beginning to the end. Now how do we come up with misery? The first imagination of poverty not to solve everything in the law but to move it to some rules, so it has already become an absolute practice for which no one knows what the rules will be. Here we have come up with an even more way of looking at the law, so that's this new Article 18, and it's been changed, and it's being changed that says this, first the minister will make a decision that someone can activate, activate public notebooks, and then he'll be, and then he'll come up with an opinion on trusting the business and restoring the public notebook. So let's at least one 2-3 decision to bring us a minister. So, what I've had a chance to see and I'm not going to say any papers. When we didn't know, when we had some new jobs coming in, and I was in it and I'm carrying part of my responsibility, let's say when the topic of energy certificates came up, and we didn't know who was going to review the energy certificates, and we all came up with this, and we said that would be done by communal monks, and then when the dogs and cats had to be chipped, we had to check that all the dogs and cats had been wiped out. I said from this phone booth they're still not engaged in divorces, everything else they do. Others when we didn’t know how to handle it, then we transfer it to family doctors. We have a law that has not yet come to a vote where we have transferred responsibility to family doctors but I see that Minister Beroš is going to discuss next week lightly with family doctors. And now we've gone one step further. So, in principle, I against outsourcing have absolutely nothing. For some outsourcing jobs is absolutely necessary, cleaning jobs, maintenance jobs, security jobs, but something that's your core business, something that the state needs to have four eyes open, something that's the foundation of state space, space management, the accuracy of space data is the basis of a country can't be outsourcing. You can't transfer something that has to be a basic state and state where the correctness of that data, the state guarantees the correctness of that data to the public notebooks. In one part of my work, I watched or watched, I saw the verdict of the European Court of Justice who ruled in favour of one individual because the state gave the wrong copy of the marriage book that someone was married, and was divorced, was not, was the case of the Czech Republic. And it was the state's fault, the wrong information. So, as a result of the wrong information, the result of not good data is borne by the state. So the state can't transfer its business to someone else without having clear conditions, criteria, ways, and everything else. It's not all about everything. So let's go one step further, so why don't the judges be in outsourcing, why don't the judges be in outsorcing, you have a lawyer who'll do something and then when we don't have enough judges we go judges in outsorcing, great. Maybe some doctors in the outsorcing, and they don't have much time anyway, so he goes to Youtube to see how the appendix is operated and then he cuts off a little bit. So, I'm a cartoon now. Let's take the seriousness of all this. I absolutely agree with the fact that the cadastre and the garter are looking for a serious, serious business of taking it seriously and doing something. This is how we cat hunt for our own tail. We're not gonna do anything, in a year or two, some other or some other third or 26 minister will come along and tell my people we're in trouble. In 2000, we started the project since 2003, I think I said maybe just a year this year, but I don't think I've been able to, the organized country project, the ZIS project, there were meetings and meetings on it, two exact data perfectly state-of-the-art. But how to get the exact information. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116906	On behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives will now speak the esteemed representative Michel Jaksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116907	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs, good afternoon, good afternoon, everyone. So there is another law before us regarding the judiciary, the order of society that comes to us because we have entered the European Commission's National Recovery and Resistance Plan where certain criteria and certain decisions have been put under us to meet what the European Commission is asking us to do. It also clearly states in the reasoning of the law and why changes are being made. And almost every law so far from that set of judicial laws mostly always revolves over the fact that we can say in the beginning that we move from the dead, that we want to change some things, that we want to make things better than they have been before, but when we draw the line, a lot of questions remain unarranged, and so it is often asked and justified that we may not use enough of this one package that comes through the National Recovery and Resistance plan where we open up a big space for reform with a lot of financial resources and that we should find a much braver and much more determined decision in particular if we know what the perception of the situation in the Croatian judiciary is and in all of these things that talk about the order of a society. When we talk about the Law on Land Books, what I can say is when I have a chance to talk to or with fellow citizens, fellow citizens who find themselves in some problem with the border, who find themselves in some property legal problem, or when we talk to some investors who have an interest in some plots where they would develop and build, it's always the first comment we just ask that we don't have to go around the cadastre and grants and solve something there because then we enter a circle where there's no end and that we won't solve anything quickly. We are also going through this as a public administration where we also have very slow models of solving all of this and, at all, getting to what it takes to get a project on its feet. Of course, it's not something to be optimistic about, which raises their interest in developing something at all because as soon as the issues with the border arise, even if some public bodies or some 1937 enrollment are involved, then you know that you're entering a dramaturgy zone where it's very, very questionable when you're going to get out of it and in what way. In the end, the President of the Supreme Court, Mr. Radovan Dobrinić, in some part of his programme had a presentation on the very subject where he clearly proved why we have buried courts, why we have every little debate as far as we are above the EU average not only on unfinished cases but also on the cases that we have in our courts and how many of these cases concern precisely property legal relations and relations between public bodies. And we've just never seen before in this law that we're going to do anything that doesn't contribute to such a condition. Of course, we could still draw today as a special example of how much we have had in Croatia with great affairs and with reference and with much larger faces working in our land-based book departments where we can see in many situations that this has been manipulated, that someone's hands are being handled, that simply private capital has been placed above the public interest and the interests of society and the interests of the citizens of this country. These affairs have not been forgotten, and there have been many, and one of them has been happening these days. So when we add up and subtract, and we know how dissatisfaction it is with citizens and investors themselves, when we know how many places in Croatia have happened to us and I would dare say stealing some space and illegal construction and everything that it has brought with it we know that it has not been done in these 30 years enough no matter how many changes have been made or how much. It has been trying to digitise a lot, it is commendable that today a lot can be seen in a digital form more than it could 10, 20, 30 years ago and today there is a new law before us with which we will continue to digitise and make this whole process faster and more transparent. But what we're definitely worried about as a club is that we don't get the answers again what it's going to be, what frame and what form, how much is it going to speed up the processes and make them simpler and faster, how long will it take us to implement it, but finally what will be the ultimate result? Which we will get better and better quality in our land books so that we can all be more satisfied together and what it will mean for our courts and for the people with whom it many times ends at the end of the day. Because we know that mainly in some parts is the biggest problem that arises about whether the border is two meters to the right or two meters to the left. It looks like a joke now, but in a lot of situations it blocks very big and very important projects. What we would certainly like to comment on through these legislative changes that are first reading why it is giving up that citizens themselves can make direct proposals for enrolment, why does all this now have to go through public notebooks and lawyers? Because maybe it's a step that sometimes brings something and makes it better, but it doesn't have to be that every citizen can't do it especially today when information literacy is raised. Also, this is just one tiny thing that we'd like to see spread. It's absolutely changing, it makes a regulation that everything that's brought in after a certain deadline is rejected by automation. Now, we agree we should stick to order, we should stick to deadlines. But what I would like to draw attention to in my debate is that so far we have had a situation if the parties present still appear within a certain period, if they agree to accept the situation that was then taken into account. Of course, there is a clear distinction to be found, but from some experiences from the local part, from the field, he would like to say that he might just go to reject everything that comes after the deadline and not some "must have" and is not something that will speed up, facilitate processes. Perhaps in the first part of automation something will clear up because it will be rejected, but there are very many people who are clearing up some of their remains in some areas that may not be so populated and where it is simply not all very easy to pack and do, and this is not helping them to do it. So, on the one hand, it is definitely that we can praise that we are finally again dealing with the Law on Land Books, which we want to make it more digitized, more transparent, more open, which we want to enable citizens and investors to have more insight into but we lack those content components, clear analyses of what we want to do, in which period and which will be the ultimate result for both the public and the economy, but also for the pressure on the courts, which we almost witness daily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116908	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Branko Bačić, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116909	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So from the debate so far, it was concluded that most clubs support the announced and proposed amendments to the Law on Land Books. We at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will also support such changes, as they contribute to better and better maintenance and implementation, maintenance of the land book and implementation of changes in land books. Clearly, counterpart Jaksic said that digitisation is good, that it speeds up the implementation of changes by applying, working in the land book. But she will, in full sense, be a quality solution when I elaborate and catastra and land books will be harmonised and updated with the state of the field. This is a fundamental observation, a fundamental lack of all the changes that have come well and when we talk about amending the Law on the Land Book and when we talk about the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates, every digitalisation of automatic data processing, every approach that contributes to a more transparent, faster, more efficient work of catasters and landowners, is good, but above all it needs to make the basic data the most important records in Croatia, and this is a record of real estate both in the cataster and in the land book to be accurate and up-to-date. And I agree with the remarks that I am saying and I'm a lot of times since I've been here in the Croatian Parliament that in Croatia a little less than 15 million cadastrian particles that are included in 3417 catastrian municipalities and that 90%, perhaps a little less and this percentage, I'm going to be more satisfied, and that it's still in a large part based on a cadastrian measurement than two centuries ago and due to the non-maintainment and cadastrian books and land books today, it's often almost amazing to see data on the registration of ownership on a single catastrian particle. That's why we went with the State Measurement Act and the real estate cataster from which a multi-year programme of state measurements and a real estate catastra we adopted seems to me last year and the government adopted an annual programme this year. In that multi-annual program, it's been planned in 10 years, and I believe and I hope that we will actually realize it. A complete measurement of the entire building land in Croatia. It is about 600,000 ha, which is about 10% of the total territory of the Republic of Croatia. But more importantly, I said earlier in the introduction that it was 15 million particles, but it would cover 42%. So somewhere around 6 million particles. So much less territory, but given that the plots are smaller, smaller surfaces and the average plot is much smaller, almost 50% of all cadastrian particles in Croatia will be covered, where 80% of all economic activities are carried out or carried out, and that's good. I have said it many times, and we expect, first of all, the Government of the State Geodetic Authority to implement this annual programme. But what has come from the experience so far for these 414 catastrian municipalities is the fact that even providing funding for the state measure, to go into the state measure, to make a measure but to establish a new land book. As a rule, there are many administrative obstacles. These obstacles primarily relate to the fact that the judiciary or land-based book departments, land courts are not able to carry out the changes very quickly, i.e. to carry out the new measurements. And it happens that some measurements have already been made and completed 20 years ago. A new land book has not yet been restored and created. And that's why they assumed that it was speeding up, to get rid of it, to finally be satisfied as a state, that what we paid for what the geodetics measured and then clear citizens could use, to get two important changes in the land book as soon as possible, two important changes. The first amendment is now fully entrusted to the measuring officer, which will further speed up the measurement and results themselves, and the measurements themselves, and I welcome the introduction of the public notary. He doesn't know. Someone's talked about prices before. It does not say in the article, it says, that funds will be provided as a special compensation for the work of public notaries to be designated by the President of the Court of Justice in areas for which this measure is carried out. The very cost of engagement of public notebooks would be good if by, although it says a single price of that cost would be determined, and compensation to the public notary. It is essential that we define ourselves so that it does not significantly increase the price of making a new land book itself. But I welcome about 300 public notebooks in Croatia, I don't know exactly how many there are, there are 300 of them. They will be able to speed up the data on the creation of a new land book in that space. It is very good and this model that is envisaged is good and perhaps given the experience that we have and which is behind us, which says that we are very much coughing with the production of the land book after the measurement has been completed, and I think that it is somewhere around 160 catastrian municipalities in Croatia has completed its measurement and no land book has been formed to complete it. But that everything we planned in the annual programme for 2022, and that's already, now it's a big job, a huge job not to end up providing money, secure public procurement. And it goes into realisation, and in the end, it's going to wait for a long time again. It is therefore necessary, first of all, that the Ministry of Justice and Administration find a way to make sure that the public notebooks, in addition to their obligations, which they are entrusted with by law, are truly able to respond to this request when a very dynamic process of state measurement and the production of a land book in Croatia takes place. I'd like them to be able, to really get involved even though it's a job, here's Mrs Nemett's work on it and she's very well-acquainted with it. The process of maintaining the land book, forming a land book, monitoring changes in the land book is demanding and professional and it will take some time for public notebooks to get involved and to recognize this work, its importance, etc. What I would deny, I don't think Mr. Jaksic has already said in Croatia is the principle of trust in the land book. It is today a norm that must exist in Croatia. The democratic state in the 20th and second years of the first century cannot have the principle of trust in a land book that guarantees the buyer that the enrolment in the land book is sufficient for him to guarantee that what he bought will indeed be his. But I know, and maybe he meant that, for a long time, we've gone two and a half years without respecting the fact that there's a principle of trust in the land's particle book, for the property that used to be social property. Since, after the 1990s, when we passed the private ownership system, when a new Law on Property was passed, then the principle of trust was applied to private property, however, not to the state because they are as followers of social property and state units of local self-government, regional self-government of individual companies and legal persons. So in the meantime, we have come to an end and today there is absolute trust in Croatia, a trust guaranteeing to the customer that the entry in the land book is indeed similar, that it can be considered the owner if it implements any contract that becomes the owner. In every sense, I have to finish, we support at the club of these changes but everything needs to be done when it comes to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Civil Engineering, or the State Geodetic Administration, that the programme that the government has adopted is really very quickly realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116910	Thank you. We move to individual debates and will first speak the respected representative Željko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116911	Honored chairman, secretary, colleague and colleague. Here I am going to pick up where I left off with the debate on behalf of the club. I am pleased to conclude that here it is, that I was on the best track to accept something of my remarks, since my colleague Bacic said the same thing as I said about public notebooks, so that perhaps something might be accepted and respected. I'll keep going because where I was still talking about those forms, so maybe if I could just distract the secretary, maybe it would be a solution to be in traffic, in real estate traffic exclusively using public documents. That would be one of the solutions. Furthermore, I will remind you when we talked here about the Law on Reconstruction after the earthquake, among other things, I spoke about the registers and I talked about the services that we have at our disposal in the Republic of Croatia. We've spent billions, literally billions of kunas to establish these registers, to fill them with data, and today we don't use them the way we're supposed to use them. We have a part of the service that we can use means information services to call in those data from our registers, but it's controversial that it's not good. All systems that in any way use data from a register should contact that register. And I'll remind you when we were here to discuss that after a few weeks information came that it was connected to 13 services and that I don't know how many total documents should no longer be brought by the one who submitted the request for renewal but can be obtained directly from the system. Why am I saying that? I'm talking about because we have one problem here too, and that's what the law says we're going to spend an extra 2.5 million kuna along with a VAT of 3 million kuna on building a new system, but only in the construction part of the construction of new land books. There is no part that connects to the system itself, and we are talking about that currently these systems that serve us to enter data in land books do not have direct contact or... Directly the OIB system, do not contact the immediate system of residence in the MUP, do not contact the parent book system directly, and therefore we have errors in systems that are later a problem to correct. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, I thank my colleague Katarina who, she helped me a little bit in that part since she came from the profession and drew the lady's attention that it was really like that and that we can safely say that it doesn't really exist. If we don't have a connection today in 2022 to the OIB system that was created n years ago, then that's not good. That we don't talk about the system of parent books that's existed since we exist, that we're not talking about the system of residence, and you know what the problems are, if the wrong address is to go back to the correction, if the last name is wrong, the name should go to the correction. So these are the places where we can save time, where we can save resources, where we can allow people to process objects that need to be processed in a shorter period of time. And as my colleague says, I don't know if you said that about the pay phone, but you told me it took about an hour to sign up to register one entry. If it's been an hour, if the one who prepares the data and sends the digital route to the land department has spent it all together in a way to check through these registers that were available to him, then the referent has much less work to do. He's checking it all manually now. So here's the space for us to speed up the process, to make our efficiency more efficient and, of course, what's the additional problem, that's your number of employees. We said, here's Mr. Secretary said you're missing about 300 people, 150, 150, 150 in the land-marked, 150 catastra, but don't forget about the salary of 4,000 kunas no one will come to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116912	Stay a moment because we have one replica, respected representatives of Boska Ban Vlahek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116913	The proposed amendments and additions to this law should aim to further digitise, shorten and simplify the process of recording ownership rights. On the one hand, digitalisation, use of cell phones, mobile applications, 5G networks are encouraged, and on the other hand, proposals restricting electronic communication are introduced into the law. Please comment because this is also your profession, why not make it possible to submit proposals through the system of e-Citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116914	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116915	Thank you very much. I've already talked about it, and honestly, I see one problem here. Therefore, if an application is made or proposed to enter the land register via the e-Citizen system, the question is to control the data. So there is currently no data control and currently there are problems because names, last names, addresses, and everything else is wrong, and then land-ready corrections should be done. Therefore, courts have additional jobs, and these workers, pardon officials who are still working now, have additional jobs they shouldn't normally have. So we need to see if it's an optimal solution or not. And I agree with you we have a lot of applications, we have a lot of systems that serve to present these data to our fellow citizens which is good, which is good, which is good, but we need to work on making data coverage good and quality. To be integrated and to once the data is entered anywhere in the system into any system to then be published in all systems. If that's not the way it's gonna be, then everyone's gonna be doing the same job. And it's actually happening to us now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116916	Thank you. The next one will be spoken by the respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116917	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, I think that here and today's debate has some agreement that this Law on Land Books in First Reading is good, that it may still need to be fixed in certain segments, and I hope that the Proposer will respect some of the remarks that are made here today so that this law in the final part would really look like it's being implemented and that it brings what we all want, and that is when we talk about land books, one continuous progress of regulation of this important segment of development of each society, and so on, because I'm going back to the debate yesterday, we had one law that didn't give rise to a big debate on the law on the clearance of signatures, transcripts, etc., it wasn't a big debate, but it was a matter of public notes whether we had established a system that should replace the system that we had until then when we talked about state administration, courts, etc. and whether conditions have been created that we can have complete confidence in that system. We heard today 300 public notebooks should be respected i.e. They are guaranteed that what they do has its basis in truth, in urgency, and that what they put in place as something that will go through the book or change ownership or implement a particular contract, no longer needs to be questioned. Today we came to the debate and asked if it was enough for us to trust them since those who can always think a little differently can appear, so a little bit gets mixed up and do something wrong, can we trust the public notaries? I think we can. Every one of us who's been, I think I've been in those offices quite often, talking to them, but they have a different view of this whole situation. They think that, let's say, tariffs are small, that we as a state in a way that we've given them too much work in the sense that they really have a lot of powers within which in some offices they're hard to do or they're not well filled or they don't have a well-developed office or they don't have enough users in view of some areas, I'm going to say maybe on the islands so we only have one public notary, on some island 10,000 on some island we have maybe two etc., that this system isn't well distributed by the Republic, and that maybe this situation will bring them back to the situation that they'll have even more obligations and objects, and that the tariffs and what we're trying to advocate here, and we've heard from the opposition, is now going to be more expensive than what we had. The implementation of a donation contract, we know its price, it is known in some ways how many tariffs it costs to verify one signature or some document, contracts, etc., I think that everything we have done so far, and so said counterpart Bačić, this government in these six years in two mandates really has its own hologram that follows activity for activity. And we expect that after we have passed the Law on State Measurement and Catastra Realty, after we have brought in the catastra arrangement program, we have provided funding from the NPO that what you will do is every geodetic office you will take which is a little larger, etc. who know about the situation in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia so that this job could cost us about five to six billion kunas in some tariffs that exist, to arrange the final cadastre and land books, to bring this relationship into line and thus raise that trust in that system so that we no longer question whether what it writes inside is true or not. When we're sitting in 2005, the sixth year when the first introduction started, let's say the digital system to edit the catastras, etc. It was a reform then and we were all pleased with the fact that clicking on a specific portal i.e. We can get to see what's ours that isn't ours, etc. and it's been 15 years, and I think it's been level that we can believe it and that we can quite quickly solve some situations, especially public notebooks, lawyers who can get into a particular programme and really check everything there is compared to an ordinary citizen. And now that we're moving on, through further digitization, I expect that we all really support this law because it does nothing wrong. So we have a program, practically a law, we have an annual programme and this Law on Land Books that still needs to be further strengthened and implementation remains, and here we said that there are some moments that maybe need to be fixed to go faster. But I don't think it's right to bring public notebooks now as a system that we've been building for 30 years, whether what they're doing is right or not, and whether they're going to be able to do this. He will, he will. Now whether everything is free or should be free of charge, we can talk about it because I think they have certain costs and they have to have some activity. make it right. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116918	Thank you. We have more replicas, the first respected representative of Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116919	I thank the vice president of HS. Col. Boric, these amendments and additions to the Law on Land Books are another step forward because... the formation of land books by accelerated procedures in electronic form, especially since the obligation for public notaries to submit a proposal for entry in land books immediately after the confirmation of the signature of the act. Now the parties are paying a 250 kuna court fee, and if a little later than 30 days of conducting the case is 1,250 kuna for implementation in land books. Now it is a matter of compensation to public notaries for the implementation of land books, and will these costs be lower for the citizens or the party?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116920	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116921	Thank you very much. Here I think I've been listening to the whole debate since the opening speech of the esteemed secretary of state, exactly what it's going to be and how much I can't do today. I think it's going to be cheaper for me than it was, and it's going to be faster that it shouldn't be any more controversial right now. We said we want speed and we want it cheaper than we want it now. We saw now on this case that you said how much it costs now, how much it should cost us. I believe it'll be less. We now have no idea, a real estate donation contract, it has its own tariff and I think it's about the same for all of us depending on some of their views on it, but I think it's worth some 2,750 kuna if they're going to implement one donation contract and, of course, everyone's trying to get into such a situation within the family to do it in the best possible way, but we can't say now that we can solve all this very easily only with some sort of compensation, as well as a certificate of signature. I think about 60 kunas being some kind of contract, is that enough now or isn't enough for what they're doing? We believe that the system is good and that it needs to be further upgraded, and this law does so. That'll do. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116922	Dear Representative Shashin:
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116923	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Boric. Here last week, a friend of mine in the White Manastir bought an old property house for demolition and went off with that former owner made a contract with a public notary within an hour they practically solved everything, very pleased, etc., these changes of the law go in that direction to further accelerate these procedures, simplify through digitisation, and that is the most important thing. We are all aware that the modification of these thirty articles of this law will not solve all these problems. Of course, we still have a long-term job of synchronising land-book books, i.e. catastra and garnery, etc. This is what I'm saying is this was an example because these relationships were consistent. So everything was clear, everything was clear. And where books are harmonised, there's no problem and there won't be any. So I think these amendments to the law really contribute to that and that it is neither a problem nor a price If everything gets done in time. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116924	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116925	I'm going to repeat this once again, I think that after this authority, which comes up alone with a proposal for a certificate and a public notary that needs to be implemented through the digitisation that we're looking for and we're saying that we're in the era of digitisation and that the state is going to invest a lot of money in these ten years when we're talking about both the multiannual financial framework and the National Recovery and Resistance Programme, that it's time to bring this to an even greater level in the next few years, means acceleration and an even higher level of trust, i.e. the arrangements of the whole system. We heard what we wanted through the program. The program has covered construction areas for now. Why the construction? I think that there are the biggest problems, and most of all what is outside the building area are essentially the largest particles owned by the Republic of Croatia and there are not so many of these problems, at least I know that in the islands we don't have that many problems in terms of solving ownership relations, because there is clear who owns it. And now, the further we'll be able to say a lot of things is on who's going to implement it, and these are the ministries of course the State Geodetic Administration and the notebooks themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116926	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116927	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Boric, here you are, in your individual debate, pointing out a lot of important things. You are also the head of the body of a local self-government unit, I would say you participated in the beginning of the creation of reforms and land books and catastras. Today we are discussing the final step in the whole digitalization process. What we may not have mentioned is that apart from this, it will all be connected together with the e-script and the e-noter, that all judicial decisions will come by electronic means in land books by switching to public notebooks not only will we reduce the price of the service, but we will make people no longer have to go three, four, five times, so solve the same thing, save on time and costs. But also by restoring and creating new land books, which is of interest to the Republic of Croatia, we will create, therefore, economic progress and that investors will know that they will be able to resolve very quickly, invest in our areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116928	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116929	Thank you, dear fellow Mazhar. I think you said it all right. I can only say on some of the little things you do as a local leader, there's a colleague from Bakar. So just one measure over and over when we're talking only about not knowing the surface of the property that we have on our own, in the units of local self-government, you can go up the utility prices somewhere and up to 100 percent just to sort out the bases, and say that's because, unfortunately, we've been building for years, what's been happening on the Adriatic has been happening for years, especially in the coastal space. The houses grew, they didn't register, and unfortunately we had the fact that local self-governments didn't have enough income, and income was ahead of them. Only the arrangement of the bases that you're talking about, and what this law is about in some way it's going to give us enough data so that later we can tie it up and turn it into clear, pure values that then certainly help us to carry out everything that we want, and that's speeding up the process and consistency.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116930	Thank you. Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116931	Dear Representative Boric, I could agree with you about the concern about how many notebooks will actually be able to collect their work, because often the target is also at the top, we have heard that they have become rich. However, we know that it was still only worth it for some, and some have mostly charged 70 kuna for the executions, and some have received more. So here the same thing can happen, that some notebooks work a lot, some work a little. We know that soloized contracts are worth a percentage of the value of a solemnized contract and another public document is worth the approval of a signature that is slightly less than 50 kuna. So what I'm actually afraid of is that the notebooks won't be adequately rewarded, and on the other hand, at some point they're not using that position again, so they don't go over that work, or to the users of the service.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116932	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116933	Thank you very much. I said in my debate, so I talked to people who deal with it, i.e. with public notebooks and their view of this situation is quite different from ours. We want it cheaper and cheaper. They feel that there are not enough tariffs for them, that they have a lot of work to do, let's just say, on performance and that what they can charge there does not cover certain costs they have and if they had to hire additional workers, etc. When we talk about the soleization of a higher value contract, of course, that everyone loves a bigger contract, I don't know a million, two kunas of value than that of 30,000. They have tariffs for it, and they can't exactly run into some extremes. But according to us, the system is set up, and they are believed to have this additional task that will surely have to have a certain price and tariff because without it, the question arises whether the free system can increase what we're always talking about, whether trust is what it is, and that rewards them in a way that we don't have to give them anything. I don't think it can go that way and there's, of course, the ministry, but everyone else who's involved in it does it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116934	Thank you. Dear Representative Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116935	Thank you, Vice President Reiner. Dear Secretary of State, you said in your debate that this law aims to make continuous progress in the field of land books, and I am interested in whether the digitised process will increase the investments we need and what is actually the role of the local community.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116936	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116937	What's the part? Thank you very much, colleague. So the role of the local community is, I think, first of all, every local self-government has to strive to get involved, i.e. that this programme of catastra arrangements is included in a way that shows its needs and that the State Geodesy Administration is hoping to respect many of those who have not restored the beginnings of the land books, to organize a cadastre and thus create assumptions that they can attract more investment, more, easier to do their job so that we don't have what happened to us in Istria. Yesterday, the day before, we testified that you were not supposed to have an object or be in a spatial plan, but the objects were legalized and these properties were legalized, there were such officials, and obviously the system of the presses came to find those places and the ones that didn't work, gave them more, so I believe that there are definitely more, I wouldn't have left it just on Istria, but it's up to those who need it, it's BOOK, PNUSKOK, so let them look for what really happened through the legalisation system and whether it was all right how it was supposed to be... No matter what digitization. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116938	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116939	Thank you very much, dear Vice President and dear colleague Boric. Listening today, here is the debate and most of the clubs that have been talking about a problem that is being imposed in general in the Croatian administration, a low-paid job. Today we're talking about editing land books, digitizing, some new tools, some new knowledge, and then we find out that these people have relatively low incomes. But if the state and the Croatian government, which I absolutely support, were to go into, and here we heard from the secretary of state that we're going to go into employment, then the same ones who are today saying that we're ineffective these people are declaring to be in love, people who are employed with membership cards, but let's be honest, one thing is not compatible with each other, and I think that these people and these new skills deserve an adequate salary, and then I think that the job that is expected to be better, faster and more effective and for the benefit of all citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116940	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116941	I will finally once again answer your replica of my colleague Ivanovic to say that it means what we are through this, which I wanted through this debate, means to remove this story whether we should trust the public notation system in the Republic of Croatia or not, I think that's where we agreed. Secondly, if it's going to cost anything compared to this right now, we've heard how much it costs us now, whether it's cheaper, I think it will, we'll see it in the number of objects. Third, to have a sequence of events from the first day of this government means at 6. that we want to edit this space means that we have the consistency of catasters and land books, that we have passed the laws that are necessary for us, that we have the programmes, that we have the annual programme, and that we have the resources to do so, so now it's up to us. to those who work in the ministry, the state geodetic administration, etc. To do this, this task is just, this law is still an addition to that and those who are against this law are not in line with policies that promote, and we want order, speed, and it costs us less, I think this law is doing it, it will show time that we have been right as many times so far, and about employment and I say that it would be, but I think that the public notary system should today... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116942	Thank you, thank you very much. Now she will speak to the esteemed representative Barbara Antoliæ Vupra, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116943	It's not winter.../Laughter/..., so the respected Mr. Salapic has great respect, the chairman, respected MPs and MPs. Before us is a welcome law, commendable, it solves a part of the problem that is enormous and from this point of view should be commended, however, to try in the second part that this solution could have been more complete. What bothers us all is, in fact, who has the right to apply for registration and on the basis of which public documents. Therefore, the right to enroll under this existing law would have public notebooks and lawyers, but not legal or natural persons, and so from this point of view it might actually be constitutional and on the law perhaps small and questionable. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Land Books should aim to further digitise, shorten and simplify the process of registering ownership rights. The main intention is to avoid unnecessary property disputes and court proceedings that make everyday life difficult for our citizens, business entities, especially investors, a better entrepreneurship climate is created. Amendments wish to speed up the procedures in addition to the land books, in particular the obligation of the authorising officer to submit proposals for registration, which are public notebooks and lawyers. The question arises whether this prevents access to other entities, natural and legal persons. The above will, I am almost certain, cause a lot of controversy and will likely be subject to a constitutional assessment with or with the constitution and with the law. Is this right likely to be denied to others, therefore, by constitutional and legal experts. It would also refer to a new provision in the proposed amendments and additions to which the deadlines for submitting applications and objections are now inaccessible deadlines. The amendments are intended to apply and the objections that arrived after the expiry of the deadline that they will be rejected. I must admit that it is not clearly defined whether, as a moment of time, there will be a moment of application and complaint, in other words, whether this moment is delivered by post or, as a relevant moment, taking the moment of arrival of the application and appeal to the competent public notary or court. It is a good initiative to transfer the collection of documents in digital form, but it will again take time for the documents to be fully online because so far experience of digitisation in other areas teaches us that this is not exactly how it works because all of this needs to be done and it takes a lot of educated staff. We also have to see in which procedures for the establishment and renewal of land books will indeed happen shortly after they are entrusted to public records offices. All further digitisation is needed and I repeat all changes that go towards improving and facilitating the procedure for our citizens to... Entrepreneurs to whom this, this decorated country is actually a cornerstone of the development of our society. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Once again, this Article 105, in particular paragraph 3, would have been laid out several times, so what are credible documents on the basis of which registrations will be made because they can indeed become a new stopper and an extension of time and a new, new litigation which would actually be the public documents which were not, which the doubts could produce. So, that's, that's the part I wanted to say. What bothers me with public notebooks is indeed their ability and the ability to carry out that part of the work that the state has delegated to them by this law. Is all that public notebook... in its numbers, numbers and capacitating ability to do the job? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116944	Dear representative Ban Vlahek has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116945	Dear colleagues, the amendments want to speed up the procedures with the land books especially by obliging the authorising officer as you have said to the public notebooks and lawyers who can submit proposals for enrolment. I ask your opinion are they able to do the work that the state delegates to them and have any prior arrangements with their chamber been made in the first place? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116946	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116947	Thank you very much. What we could see in the debate that was being held, so we can assume that the talks with the chamber were done, that some jobs were in sync. Still, however, it remains questionable to whom the outsiders will eventually turn. Why? It's because of the same situation that happened in the business of the performance. So these are actually state affairs that the state gives to privates, and to some extent this is a solution to the problem, but in order for it to be a solution to the problem, that other side must be paid enough, motivated to do the job and not to be, despite the fact that the public records of the people who have so far proved to be truly credible in most, but if they are to be paid, they are truly guaranteed and the best way to hell.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116948	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116949	Comrade Vupora, here's a question. Given the argument that the applicant is also, but also the members of the majority here, which is among other things, that the process will be more efficient, but that it will also be cheaper now that these powers are transferred to public notebooks. I wonder how it will now be more efficient and cheaper because we have already had such examples of the transfer of actually judicial jurisdiction from courts to public notebooks, for example, in the performances, so we have not noticed that this would make it more effective or if they were more effective but certainly more expensive, far more expensive for the citizens, so in this case we can expect that citizens will, as a matter of fact, be denied for some of the rights they had so far, and secondly, that they will collect their own actions for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116950	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116951	I've expressed my own concern, so the fact is today we can see from our personal experiences that this procedure via the notebook has been cheaped. So, you shouldn't have waited there, you shouldn't have, it went right away and it even went a lot faster by electronic means than it did in Varazdin County, I have personal experience like that. But maybe they're somewhere else I see you looking at me, maybe it's different in front of some other garters, but there it is. I have a personal experience. And now what's worried is that at some point a different agreement will happen based on the rule, so the minister directly settles, and then it can turn into something that's the intensity of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116952	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116953	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues, so it's not all the same. You're very simple today and you can solve this in the garter if you have to change your last name like you have misspelled your last name or wrong name or wrong address and for that you don't need a public notebook, you don't need any today, you don't need a lawyer, or anything, such changes go very quickly and the maltenes are finished in some grantines as long as the debate here is going on. Some don't go easy either, but neither will a public notary nor anything else help because it will go differently. But here we're talking about the state having to do some things, some data it has to manage and be. You can't leave outsourcing everything. Imagine if you decided to leave waste disposal units of local self-government outsourcing, that's what some countries had, so it turned out that the company was going down, the trucks went out. That's what's going to happen here. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116954	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116955	So, I totally agree with you, so it's a classic outsourcing, so the state delegates its part of the business to privates. This is it, this is it today, and we can view it as an example of America where it may be super-functioning, and perhaps in some European countries it does not work very well. So my opinion is that it certainly needs to remain a state's job, that it should have been done by a state with its employees better paid, and I think that it should also have the legality and business itself, so in the extreme line of work, and that digitisation would, I think, start in the system of state administration, not that we have garners that it's God's help.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116956	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116957	Dear MPs you have entered quite deeply into the subject of this law and you have given very many good examples, and what is my key question for you is, please, an honest answer, which is your assessment how and how will this law and amendments of law reflect on the acceleration of the process, transparency of the process, and what will be the ultimate effect and result? Are we going to move from certain points that we're at today, and we all agreed in the debate that they're not good enough or we're just going to stay where we've been?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116958	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116959	There are twice, so either you're gonna pay and hire more civil servants, or you're gonna do it cheaper by outsoring the notebooks. So, the state led by HDZ decided to go here with notebooks and I personally believe, and I am sure that the system will speed up and thus contribute to everything I have said, therefore better and more effective work by state administrations, and thus help units of local self-government and investors.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116960	The esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116961	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Here's more for the rest of the public I'd just like to explain, so to speed up the resolution of property law relations, you need a wider segment of justice. Land-booking departments and land-booking court is a purely formal court that implements decisions, it must be clear to all. I'm not saying that with this law we're not going to take a step forward, but we're not going to solve much of the problem. And I agree with you that this provision is in order. 105th, which restricts natural persons from going to the grantshop and themselves submits the proposal may not even comply with the constitution, and on the other hand, we need to distinguish public tariffs from public notebooks and court fees. They are now halved, court fees are halved if you go by electronic means to submit the proposal, but the question now that public notebooks are required to submit a proposal on behalf of all whether and whether it remains at that level or if the public notebooks will give us new tariffs, And he probably will. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116962	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116963	So, you've made very clear and well-determined and explained what has to be said, so one is public tax, one is court fees, one is the administration's fees, so these are different and it's right on the garter that connects the point of all of this, and that's why I specifically pointed out the public documents on which the enrolment takes place. So, I think it's there that we all agree, and Mr. Salapic also pointed out that it's actually the second stage of solving the overall problem, so I think that's also in the context of this law that it's explained that it's actually planning to solve the problem by stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116964	Thank you. Now she will speak to her respected representative, Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116965	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There's no one who won't come for this pay phone and say that we're unhappy with the situation in the catastro and that we're unhappy with the situation in the garter and that we're so very happy when we think that some small step has been taken forward. The digitization yes, the possibility to really submit a request from the cold of your home yes. ZIS great, when you have two exact figures you'll get right away, but my people feel like everyone who has an ear to keep our heads in the sand and we don't want to see the real state. The real situation is different, believe me. I have certain experiences that are related to this, there will be no solutions and there will be no steps until we unite the process of catastrophe and garland until they are essentially parallel procedures. Well, public notebooks can't be a rescue solution. When I was little, I believed in the Tooth Fairy, I was sure it existed, then I realized very quickly that it was not true. Public notebooks this problem we're not going to solve, the problem is incomparably deeper and more serious, and to the real problem, we all stare and we don't want to see it. Look at tourism, we lack workers, we lack the most common employees in tourism who, who do not know how to work, clean, the basic things, the question is the moment, the question is the day when we will have the problem in public as well. 1999. All construction inspectors from local self-government units came under the government's cap, then there were, to read 224, today we have 89 inspectors, 50% is 60 and over. In other words, in a few years neither of these 89 will be 89 but will be around 40. Here's a solution, I know it now, hire architects and builders to work as building inspectors, outsourcing. Let's say one company hot and let's take outsourcing to work as building inspectors. Would you like to vote for that? Would you agree with that? ... If you were listening, you'd know. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, would you mind? I'm not so sure. There are some things you need to be prepared for. If we were a state-organized state, it wouldn't be a problem for public notebooks. Who's gonna train them? So, I'm not talking about those when they make demands, I'm talking about the whole head of the public notebooks as commissioner of the court, I'm talking about that whole head where we give public notebooks some other stuff and some other powers. And the key question is, who's going to work for us at the state administration for 4,000 kuna? Who's going to work at the state administration for 5,000 kuna to have someone tell him tomorrow, so now you're either guilty of this or you're going to stop working or you're going to sue for something? We can take when the word is, I get in the building a little bit better understood, so take nice Nepalese people work fine, they're worth working on these high temperatures. Should we get them to work at the public administration? Let's finally look at the country we live in and the situation that we have, we're just talking about tourism now is important to us, we're not talking about this, so we're not going to have people working, so why did the ministry decide on public notebooks, because when they did an analysis, they saw that there were too few employees in the land departments who couldn't do it, and that problem hasn't happened since yesterday, and that problem is for years, and they're going to be even more because those who're going to retire will go into retirement, their experience and their knowledge will take that pension with them, and the question is what's next. So, it's not digitizing the solution to all our problems, it's accelerated, faster, simpler, more accessible to everyone, I'm the first to make that data publicly available, you have them, you can have them excellent, perfect, but, well, it's a machine, who fills the data, man. I repeat, imagine when you have a 345 square-square situation, 369, 333 square-square-square, even less, you have to prove why it's less.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116966	Thank you, thank you very much. We have replicas, a respected representative of Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116967	Dear colleagues, you said that the procedures for the establishment and renewal of land books will not be accelerated after they are entrusted to public records offices. In advance, I apologize, perhaps in your presentation you said, but for a moment I went out, do you have a concrete proposal regarding this issue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116968	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116969	Thank you very much. We all have some things we've had for years, some of which we've been talking about for years. There, somewhere in 2014, I made a proposal to speed up everything together, and it was clear to me that at this rate we were counting everything in 100. And I watched what it's like, I went to see some other countries do it, you have a model that's very conservative, one of which is so advanced, and the third model is somewhere between you and then I even wrote some texts about it and how it should unite the cadastre and the garland. This means that things are being handled parallelly because it's the only way we can get out of all of this because you, as long as the cadastre is measuring everything and doing everything by the time it gets to the grantovnica, the situation in the space is changing, there are millions of euros spent on various projects, and we need 167. People.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116970	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116971	I'd like you to explain a little bit more about this, so I'm going to be able to rephrase my replica concerning the issue of one notary on an island and the possibility of solving all of this together to make it even more clear to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116972	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116973	Perfect. Take the island of Vis, the island of Vis has not been interested in investment for years because it has been an army and for years it has been a space that has not been invested and suddenly it has become very attractive and take the Katastre of the island of Vis which was made in Italian, so we have the Austro-Hungarian and Italian, so that I don't bother you with it and make you digitally, all right now, project “Majored Land”, overlap of the island of Vis orthophoto video and catastras. The orthophoto footage shows the island of Vis, and the catastra house in the sea, the whole cadastre has been moved because for years it's been this, this... So technically everything in the sea has been moved. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's a public notebook gonna do, sit down and poster there? So there must be a cadastre and a garland together to solve things from the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116974	Thank you. Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116975	Dear colleagues Mrak-Taritash, you have experience both as a minister and as a longtime parliamentary representative, but also as a representative of the profession itself. You yourself said in your discussion how slow this is going, how slow your estimates are that they will continue slowly, I am interested in the question that you may have the nearest and most accurate answer, how much in such legislative changes and in such processes in all these 30 years. are of great interest, and then the pressure on state services and civil servants had all sorts of lobbyist groups with their interests, with valuable parcels, valuable land and all that is many times in these 30 years. in this country happened?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116976	Thank you very much. So, when you're done with the country, then you don't have any problem, you don't care who works there in the cataster and the garter because the data is publicly available to you, from home you look at them and everything else. When you're an unsettled country, then it's very important to you who works for you in the cathedral and in the garter. I've had an example of one catastrophe and garland in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, which is excellently done where great data is arranged, but you have somewhere where you don't want them, and then you have to, so that's the perception of the phone, so I have my man who I'm going to call, which will solve it for me and all of your investment goes where you shouldn't be and the perception we're giving is guilty, so the interest should be that everything is taken care of, the interest should be that everything is publicly available, then you don't need your man, then you don't need someone who's going to solve something more quickly because everything is publicly available.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116977	Time. The next replica, the esteemed Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116978	Is it working? Mr. Secretary of State. [[Clip intrusion: Works]] Comrade Taritash, you have spoken in your speech here now about the lack or problem of insufficient, insufficient professionals, professional young people who do not want or will not, will have no one to do these jobs. I would absolutely disagree with you, this in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia, mainly in Slavonia now to call a competition for one post in the department in the grantovnica or in the catastro, etc. You will receive a minimum of 5 candidates at this workplace with adequate professional training, of course, that these people are not fully trained that they must pass certain education, etc. for those jobs, but that's no problem. They'll certainly do it and be enough young people to do it. The question is, I'm just saying. Thank you. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116979	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116980	I'm afraid I can't agree with you. So, we have a lot of sin here. For a time there was a ban on public administration employment and a ban on public administration employment, we now feel these consequences. Then it was that model that for two for one, that means two when you retire one you can hire. I'm here when I spoke on behalf of the club said that I'm tomorrow for outsourcing when it comes to cleaning space, to keeping space, for not knowing about the services of different services that are accompanying services, but for what's for core buses can't be to be in the outsourcing. And I think now it's time to take a closer look at the needs and discuss the competitions and for this work, that young people who want to work are accepted and that they get dressed because they won't have anyone to train them. I was on purpose when I spoke there with the data that was fresh, not that I sucked out of my little finger. but received officially from certain ministries. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116981	The next replica honors Katarina Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116982	Thank you. Comrade Mrak Taritash, I will also touch this part of the public notebooks as the commissioner of the court in the process of restoration and establishment. So the reconstruction and setting-up procedures are demanding procedures, long-term ones that have changed a lot back 15 years, given the great problem of the procedures themselves. We, this bill of law, mean we have a situation where we can confide in public notebooks. Why didn't this ministry decide that it might be better to hire new people for these procedures and educate them than to give jobs to public notebooks I can really just ask myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116983	Thank you very much. So, I'm really talking more and more from this phone booth about how we need to be aware of the problem we're going to have in public administration. We often, very inclined to say that they're arrests, that they don't do anything there, I've worked in public administration, and I always have a need, you always have everything, but you don't need those 5% that are bad, that you count those 95% or the 90 percent ratio, so there are valuable people out there who want to work and who know and need to work. We need people. So, perfect digitization, done, we have this, that is, like this, but someone has to do it essentially. So, someone in order for you to have data he has to do them, he has to listen to someone, he has to do something, that's what I'm talking about. Now is the time to receive because, among other things, the government has recently concluded that there are no more restrictions on receiving this ratio of 2 1 or already How'd it go? [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116984	The next replica honours Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116985	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will refer to both the previous lines of HDZ and my colleague Katarina Nemet and explain that they will always be interested in working in the public administration in those artistic places. These are various administrative councils, supervisory boards and where fine fees are received, and nothing is done. However, where hard, hard work is done, a very responsible job, and for underpaid and inadequate pay, there people go to us. And there's the essence of this outsourcing. The natural roles of the court are the roles that the court would have to maintain if we wanted to be a decent rule of law, and that's where we crossed that line that we should not have crossed in a legal sense and where public notebooks as an extended hand of justice and the court should not have received certain powers. Here I am talking specifically about the role of public notebooks in reshaping land books. We should have paid better judges and land reference, decently and appropriately to pay, to strengthen the people there we lack, not to give These powers to the public notaries. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116986	Thank you very much, so let's be ourselves, we don't want to be aware of the situation we have all the time. I have had opportunities and indeed at one hour I said that there is no municipality or city in the Republic of Croatia that I don't know about or anywhere I haven't been, but all parliamentary representatives, whether they live in Zagreb or come to Zagreb, know New Zagreb. So, a large part of New Zagreb is even houses that were built in a different period, they are houses that have useful permits, they are houses that are registered in the catastrophe, but for them, they are houses that are not registered in the garnery. The flats when they went for sale were a special book called the Book of Contracts so that the apartments could be bought, which is the whole part that should basically go on as far as the grantine is concerned from the beginning. Let's be aware of the problem we face And then we offer a solution. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116987	Next individual debate, respected Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116988	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state, here after 31 years of Croatian independence we are today discussing unsettled land books and in the style of the verse of the song "the olive oil is unguarded, there is no one to read it". Although I must admit that this is one of the few segments of the Croatian administration that sees progress, means through digitisation, by facilitating access to data citizens, but also by carrying out a process based on data related to land books. Today, through the debate, there is a strong emphasis on transferring jobs to public notebooks. I'm not saying that these people aren't gonna do quality work or I don't know if they're gonna do it, whether they're gonna do something wrong. But what I do know is that public notebooks are entrepreneurs. What's the first order of business? Profit. It means compensation. They are not civil servants, they have a very different task and a role in society than the civil servants who have conducted these processes through this long period of years. What I do know is that the courts are also subscribed, that the referents, the officers have low wages, that the lack of quality employees, that the entanglement over these thirty years has left a mark on the state administration by getting a large array and a large amount of people who are not doing their job, who are looking for the corners in which they will hide. We have bad human relations in the state administration. I can see that some people turn their eyes a little bit, I was a secretary of state, so I know how it works. You have one third that you can work with, two thirds that look for curves. We have this problem both in customs and police and in a number of state services, so our problem is non-organisation, not the introduction of order, and what counterpart Anka Mrak Taritash mentioned in a ban on hiring new people in the state administration has just led us to no longer have anyone to hire, and the Nepalese can't bring him to this job because the fact doesn't long teach him how to work. It's important and it must be important for citizens to get a cheaper and more quality service, but we don't know what the rules will be, and we know that most laws can be massacred with rules. What you can read as information that we must thank Maria Teresa, that yet, in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is still in use 75 to 80% of the original Austro-Hungarian Catastra plans, measured on the basis of which it is done. I know that the ownership structure is a big problem, that the problem of unimplemented changes of owners, inaccessible owners, unimplemented desert debates, is that it's very difficult to work in this part because there are a whole series of problems that limit work but we don't know what we're even organized to do. So like I said, progress exists and needs to be accelerated. But the question is, what is the price of this progress? Could we have had a far better and better situation for so much money invested? Given Croatian syndrome, I know that we could and that a lot of money was invested in the wrong direction and that even that is one of the problems why the situation in this part of the state administration is like that. We have to thank Maria Teresa for measuring it all, which measured everything in the area she was working on. She worked at a time in the 18th century when there was no GPS, when there was not so much digitization to which we were calling, when there were no so many extenuating circumstances. However, I think our shift with all these technical aids is far less than it was at her time when it was done with the chain and with some manual means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116989	There's a replica. Dear Zeljko Pavić, or two.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116990	Your Honor, here's just to ask you do you really feel like some of our colleagues are crazy about that part of the job? No, they're not. It's a job that's not worth it. Is the work on the errands costable to the notebooks? 150 kunas of time for all those jobs to be done. It's not worth it. We heard from my colleague Nemet about what it looks like in court. Seven entries can be made in one day. Who's worth it to? So that's where I can profit from eventually, and that's a minimally small office that doesn't have enough work to get that clerk to do some sort of inventory in the land books. But the big office certainly won't accept a new employee to do the job. Now that it remains a secretary and a legislator, or a bill promoter? To simply impose this job if this job is to be done and that it is done properly, that people are licensed, that they do this job to be specialized and that they can then enter those data inside. But let's not forget that the data in those books is responsible for the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116991	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116992	Well, I didn't think public notebooks were bad people or their offices were bad. I've got examples, and here I am, and recently, I've been carrying something there. So the whole thing has improved, the more you don't have to go to the catastrian office, you don't have to pay those 250 kunas, you don't have to carry those papers alone, there, all of them doing it, it's accelerated. But since they're not civil servants, they're entrepreneurs. The question is, what will happen to the fees? If the fee stays the way it is, maybe okay. But given the larger amount of work, will these fees change? Because as you said yourself, they can't work with a minus because they have to pay their employees and the costs of their office. So they must have profit. If he doesn't have it, he won't work, he'll ask for more fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116993	Next replica of the esteemed Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116994	Thank you very much. So, the debate we're having about this law is actually we're having a debate about the role and importance of public notebooks, and I don't know how many times I've said I don't have anything against outsourcing, I don't have anything against public notebooks, I don't mind that they're doing part of the job, but let's be aware I can't do it. When you read the law carefully, the law put in a fuse. Therefore, public notebooks, especially in this chapter, where they are dealing with re-establishment, so by setting up books and saying the court may, for a reasonable reason, at any time, take away the public notary and assign the procedure to someone else. So you can't do it independently of the court, and it's not some imaginary court, it's not some new court. So there must be someone there to make sure this is done as it belongs. So instead of letting the court do its part of the job I have a feeling duplicated things [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116995	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116996	You've noticed this correctly, so this fuse that says that the court has to control again what public notebooks are doing. Who's got to control it? So again, the referents have to control it, we have to have them again, we come back to a deadlock and a vague situation of whether it's going to have someone to control it, whether it's going to be well controlled, and whether we're going to get to what we least want, and that's a series of gaps in the input of very important data because this is about human destiny, human property, the processes that will be carried out in the future, and the controls are getting smaller and smaller because there are fewer and fewer of those who are going to control these processes that are going to run public notebooks. I don't doubt their expertise because they've finished schooling for what they do and what they do, but everyone's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116997	Next is the individual debate of the respected Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116998	Thank you. Honorable MPs and MPs. One thing we don't talk about when we talk about the content of a law is the fact that the first reading is not subject to the amendment. It would be practical if this could be done because I believe that the amendment by most MPs and club representatives in this case would go towards moving these provisions of the chapter relating to new powers and the new role of public notebooks, I think that would make the quality of the debate much better. Why are we asking these provisions to be removed? No one is bickering or slowing knowledge, the legal knowledge of public notaries who are in some way lawyers of general practice, they know something about everything, so they also know a few things about land books. And without in any way offending them, without advocating some good things in disbursed courts that have done public notebooks in some other branches so far, for example in executive procedures where it was not disputed, in the deserts and others, there is one border that should not be crossed. Some of the powers of the courts, the judicial branches of the government, need to retain some of the responsibility of the state in appropriate gauges. One of them is the process very complex, very often and long-term to reshape land books. During this debate, we have often focused on whether this new role of public notebooks will increase the final cost for citizens in terms of paying direct taxis or in fact, we have provided public notebooks with some new extra profit whose prices will only later be defined. I would like to warn you that the price and cost of potential damage that can arise for a wrongly shaped or reformed land book may be in some figures and amounts that neither individual nor state will be able to afford. counterpart Mrak Taritaš made a great point that there is a small fuse that says that the court can confiscate power to reshape land books, however, which actually means that we will double business, that the courts that are under-repaired will already have to carry out an additional operation, but there are no implementing rules that will say what it really means. Then what will the court do? Undoing the store, canceling the whole procedure, starting with him from the beginning? It just doesn't exist. And now we're going back to that conclusion that I pointed out in my replica that HDZ with every judicial law we had the opportunity to discuss so far has simply turned the justice system into dust like Thanos in the Avengers. The whole relationship between the ministry of justice, according to what the executive authority should do in relation to the court's case, was wrongly set up. The Minister of Justice should look at the system and ask the judges and the judicial authority dearly how much you need, among other things, how many judges you need, how much land-booking you need and what you need from technical tools to do your job as successfully and as best as possible. If our minister of justice had asked himself and asked that question, for starters only if he had opened his ears to that protest that we had recently had people working in the system who pointed to their low, inappropriate low wages then where we lack judges and land-booked references and if we had seen the trends of leaving this workforce, then he would have increased the wages and filled the system with missing personnel. Instead, he succumbed to a public record lobby that he had given authority to never and nowhere public notebooks should be given. Our land books are already unsettled, delayed with implementation, several fillings and several procedures that are the recording of a dispute already being conducted in the courts, how will the public notebooks manage in this chaos? Absolutely not, who themselves do not have adequate personnel, well-trained, well-educated to carry out these tasks. We will have chaos in the system and new disputes that will eventually be brought back to the courts, and at the moment when the court will resolve them there will be some new authority that will correct these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u116999	The first replica, the esteemed Stipan Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117000	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrs. Oreshkovic. So if our goal really is cheaper and more quality service to citizens, if we really are in favour of that goal, then why are we afraid now, why are we now against public notebooks, why do we doubt their expertise, their ability, etc.? Well, they're ultimately entrepreneurs. If we have opted for entrepreneurship and we see that in some way what is called, the dying of a country wherever it is possible, why are you now pushing for employment as you call it often the arrest of some of the state's officials, subsistences, etc., give yourself one, agree with yourself already for which you are the option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117001	Here I am today and during the day I said that the arrests were made politically by various administrative councils, by various agencies, by bodies, by reports that were not at all meant to be formed as such because they carry out the tasks of the state, and well-paid jobs. That's where we can look for clues. I never said that judges are arrests, I never said that technical staff in the judiciary are artificial, nor in many other services, welfare centres, doctors, teachers, etc., these are all underpaid jobs because this country spends enormous millions on theft, corruption and leaks literally everywhere. I have nothing against public notebooks, I have nothing against lawyers, and I am a lawyer myself, and I will be once again when I stop political work, but there are powers, there are tasks that the state should hold in its hands, in the hands of the judicial authority, and not private entrepreneurship. It's very clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117002	Next replica, respected Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117003	Dear MPs, when I was preparing for a debate on this subject, then I talked to the public notebooks among other things, and I spoke with the judge in the municipal court. And the judge told me this way please look at Article 19 where it says the president of the court can trust the public notebook to work on the books. On the other hand, the notebooks say don't God forbid we get that job with the kind of paperwork that is currently available. They would do a job if the documentation was arranged, if the services were connected, if they had access to the OIB system, to the automation system, not now to be searched but to have automatic access to the OIB system, because they are all the reasons why administrative procedures are being followed. And they don't need that, so they're having a problem if this job comes with this kind of paperwork that's not good right now. We have already drawn attention to the secretary that this needs to be changed in a way that is better placed. And on the other hand, the judge is afraid of the same thing. Give it to them because there's no way if they have a free clerk to do it to him. [[Intruder: Time.]] This... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117004	Yeah, now I'm going to try to translate what's actually written between the lines, which is that the land-markers are underpaid and they're leaving the system massively, and even if they don't leave anyway we've had too few of them in particular by the islands or some of those smaller places. Reports testify, the annual report by the President of the Supreme Court, and some things are repeated year after year. So these people are leaving the system. Public records make a lot of better pay. This provision of Article 19 will apply where there is simply no one in court who could do the job. And to whom this job is entrusted is something over which the state has a significantly reduced ability to control. And that citizen to get a free service doesn't mean they got the public service the state should guarantee them. Cheap doesn't mean always and right and doesn't mean quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117005	Next replica, respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117006	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, it is known that I disagree with anything you say in this assembly because it is mostly negative and the perception of your country where you live is completely guilty and negative. And you put it mostly on your back I don't know our colleague here from HDZ or some authorities before that, etc. You're not good, you're not good, you're not good, you're not good, you're no good, you're no good, you're no good, you're no good. But looking at the experience of the measurements so far when we're talking about new cadastrian measurements and the formation of new land books, can you tell us if you know what the cost is? What are the costs of a catastrian municipality I don't know of small municipalities of 1,000 people, how many isolated municipalities, how many co-financed citizens to settle something? Is it good when the state invests now and says we'll cover your part we're going to fix at least construction areas because they're the worst and we're going to go through this system and we're going to create new land books and make it better for everyone, now it's going to be more expensive, and the public notebooks don't know how to do their job I don't think so because if they didn't know him by now [[Intruder: Time.]] And we believe them why it would suddenly be different. [[Intruder: Time.]] These are your... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117007	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117008	So, fellow Boric, dear God, the Father of Heaven can't tell from what you've come up with in one minute what your question was, except here's what you've come up with to answer. So, you find me a municipality, an area, a cadastre, a municipal court that the HDZ has brought into order in which it merged data between cadastres and land books in a way that mates... You're the only one doing this, you're identifying the country with your own political party, which is, of course, completely wrong and wrong, but I can understand that one political party that is the legacy of the Communist party resonates in that way. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] However, it is neither a state nor a single law. If you ask me what needs to be done, we need to edit the system that the rules are clear, understandable, that citizens can achieve them in practice and that they have security, Mr. Oprah, we'll have to call an ambulance to help you relax a little. You're distracting me in my speech. [[Intruder: Time.]] You're intruding. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117009	Done. Injury, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please, please, Mr. Opera, answer your word. You are being warned by Krstulović Opera.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117010	I'll fight you all right, or I'll have to explain something further to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117011	You're done, you're done Mrs. Oreshkovic, your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117012	A permanent growth of permeability.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117013	You get a warning, and you get an Oreshkovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117014	Article 238, our colleague really insulted us here with her finding that HDZ is the successor of the Communist Party instead of looking at Hajdas Doncic in SDP called SDP SKH no, and they clearly determined it and we said the followers of these parties are hiding and now we are you. Imagine those thoughts, the level of knowledge or attempts to be important in such situations, so that's pathetic. And what you're doing in Split and what you've made of that party and everything you do to tell us, a disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117015	Time. And you have a warning, this was your replica. Following the final debate, he was first on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117016	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Here's today we've heard a lot about this bill, except for this last one, I won't comment on it by citizens with percentages, so someone has 0% in the election, and someone has 30%. But as far as the proposal for a law on land books is concerned, what we can sum up after today's debate and after the presentation of views and clubs and individual debates and the proposings that land books and cadastres are certainly one of the concepts or parts that made the most of the step. If we look at that, we're still on the move in '96. that it is continued for all years and in 2019 by adopting a new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books and that, thanks to all of this, we have today the main land book and the book of documents that are complete in electronic form, and after today's proposal of law and common documents will be in electronic form, and thus we will in some way round the entire dimension to be digitized, if we add to this fact that we have an e-File, that we have eNotar on which the court rulings in electronic form will come into land-books, if we add that we will give today's proposal the opportunity and authority to the public notaries and lawyers that they are mandatory if the party is not explicitly opposed to being sent in electronic form of enrolment in land books, then we can see that we create not only a prerequisite but also close that one story of digitalisation of land books and cataractras. What I would like in our individual debates ok, some parliamentary deputies use a minute to say something that has nothing to do with a relationship so they might go out on some pervasive portal, but MPs who are chosen by the people and who need to lead a responsible policy, I think we should talk about agenda topics and what seems to be about citizens. For this reason, I am sorry that the days may not have looked and the wider picture related to and this part is something that goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on about this today we are solving another NPOO reform measure related to increasing the efficiency of the judiciary and increasing citizens' trust, and that is something that we are always calling for. And then when you took what this HS has done over the past year brought about the legislative framework, about only reforming the judiciary from public records, from courts, from everything we voted for to enable and create not only what someone is saying today, e public notebooks will now get something to do, it will be paid a little bit, etc., and we can take a phonogram of the debate a month and a half ago, two days ago when we talked about amendments and additions to the Law on Public Literature where we gave these same public notaries new powers, gave them new powers, created new conditions, said they could also work where they don't have an office seat for days, that they could be present in each part of the Republic and that they would be paid. They also got a new detour that could work as public notebooks, and so far they couldn't. And thus we created conditions to strengthen them first, and then to give them these things that are primarily of interest to the Republic of Croatia. So we often use general terms we need this, we need that, and when concrete measures are to be taken, then we're looking for some hypothetical things to just say something opposite that we're not with the majority. And let's just say this part of allowing public notaries to be commissioners of the court for the creation of new and renewal of land books is of particular interest to the economic growth of the Republic of Croatia that investors no longer have to wait for certain unresolved property relations that end in judicial proceedings, court proceedings that take some time and, of course, that the investor is looking for another location mostly outside the Republic of Croatia. Now that we're going to allow investors to invest faster and better and create investments, and then on that basis we have again, I would say a record GDP like we had last year in Europe right behind Ireland, thus having the possibility of increasing wages and pensions, and thus having the RH put into an investment credit rating, and then someone will wonder why it is. Well, that's because the government is doing exactly this, making laws that are of interest to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117017	The next final debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club of Honored Representatives Anka Mrak Taritas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117018	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Amendments and additions to the Law on Land Books are an important legal proposal. I'm asking you, did any of you who met with the catastra problem and the garter didn't face the problem he said, and there's something that needs to be solved, and we need to speed it up. You who were chiefs, are you really satisfied with everything that is or have concluded there will be no investment if we don't have a fixed cadastre and garland, if we don't have a land. I know a chief who was chief of staff on an island where there was a terrible lawless construction that he made to record a complete state of affairs and increased twice his communal contribution, double. I don't know if it's you, I know each other, but I believe it's you, so it's all together. There is no dilemma at all that a land arranged for space, a fixed cadastre and a garland is something that is the step of this country in terms of economic development and now let's see the real state. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm telling you the data I received from the DGU, of the 3,417 catastrian municipalities in the official use of arranged 237, this one, since 2000, began at this rate in 167 years. We have a country in place and now we say the reasoning of the bill, assessing the current situation should state that all the objectives set in the short and medium term have been achieved through the reform of land books and catastras... reforms. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Excellent reform if we set ourselves such goals and are satisfied with these goals to resolve it. These changes and additions to the law won't solve the problems we have, this is just fog, blurry, now we'll solve the problem, so let the problem solve someone else. I ask you, would you, when you go, you have a project, you want to have your own hotel project, you build a hotel and you come to an architect who has never designed a hotel in his life, but he's great at designing houses, and he says I do great work and design family houses perfectly, give me a hotel, he wouldn't. Hey, guys from HDZ, would you like to go to the Oclist to operate on your heart? Did both of them finish the medicine? They were, both were successful. So, this whole branch of public notebooks can do a great job part of the job, they can be great in certain, certain processes, in certain jobs, but the business of setting up, so those whole heads, one new heads, the establishment that is clearly called the public notary as the commissioner of the court where we talk about setting up grant books, so in this whole head and the whole story, these are people who don't have, who have never worked so far, who have to be educated. Let's finally admit that not everyone can do everything. So I finished architecture, the architect, my whole life I've been doing spatial planning, it wouldn't have occurred to me to tell someone, so it's not a problem for me, it's a problem with this age and experience, I haven't dealt with it. So this is a specific job, so I can't work, in this specific job someone needs to be educated. So I'm asking you what's going to happen, so we've got a procedure where public notebooks are going to do it fine, and it's going to be financially okay, and it's still going to be catastar, and it's not measure public notebooks will continue to carry out the measurement and everything else, and the public notebooks are doing this part of the legal work, it's okay, the public notebooks are doing the job, on the way my company says I'm not going to do it. Well, it's not a court that's going to find out that this guy didn't do the right thing and give the job to someone else, some imaginary. They're some people who have to look and say you didn't do the job, so they're the same people who could do it. So this is how you solve the problem by creating a new problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117019	Next final debate, respected representative Zeljko Pavić on behalf of the Social Democrats Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117020	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here's just another small, little review of what we've been saying today, or what I'd like to emphasize on behalf of the club. First and foremost, it believes that those proposals that we have made here as a club related to the building up of the ZIS system with additional approaches to the OIB system, the residence system, the residence system and the parent book system I think is one of the better proposals, today I have not heard any other proposals that will certainly allow the registration of data in land books to be accelerated primarily because there will be no more incorrect data because data will be extracted from valid registers. In addition, let us not forget that we had a few weeks ago here at the discussion of the Law on Public Literature. I then tried to present what actually happens to the notebooks, which happens to smaller notebooks, and I don't think there's a need to explain it again today, with that I already told my colleague in my replica that public notebooks aren't really crazy about that job right now because it's a job that's quite extensive, and the current documentation available for doing this job isn't very good. In addition, the law that we have here today must be observed together with the Law on Public Literature, the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorist Action, the Law on Real Estate, the Law on Office Business, is the minimum we need to read in order to know what we need to do and what awaits us. In fact, let us not forget that the Office Business Act is in effect 1.1.2023. when we have to exchange all documents by digital means, right, the Real Estate Transport Act is directly related to these contracts that we talked about, the Money Prevention Act is linked to the fact that the public notary, if it draws up an objection, is obliged to carry out a deep analysis of the parties that have approached the signing of the contract. So we have a whole series of problems ahead of us, which should be solved, and which should be defined in order to make sure that we succeed. My colleague Mrak-Taritash said it was a bad plan, so it wasn't a bad plan, but it all went into the long run. So you shouldn't have done that now. But well, it couldn't have been done, so what I did besides these proposals so far I would have suggested that those documents that are written on forms and on some papers that aren't prescribed in digital form not be used anymore. If we use digital patterns, we will be able to fill out these patterns much faster and much better, and get more quality data in the system, and we will be faster in doing jobs after that in the last step. I have to turn another problem that nobody here has turned their attention today, which is that there is no link between the documents that are sent to the land books, the Tax Administration, or the Catastre. Currently, data are not sent to the cadastre at all, and the data or documents sent to the land books have their own indicators. While only a scan of documents is sent to the IRS, it would be good to connect it and then have a link between the land books system and the IRS, to see what was paid, how paid and how much tax was paid for each individual contract that was made and sent to the land books. If at least one part of these proposals are accepted, I hope that we will be able to save at least 20, 30, 40% of the time and that those employees who are currently working in land-book departments will succeed in doing at least one part of the work faster and better quality, and that we will get to the results before the deadline that counterpart Mrak mentioned, which is 167 years ago. I don't know, I don't know about these notebooks and giving jobs to the notebooks. I believe that judges will not just give it so easily because they are also in the interest of having control over these tasks being done. And let us not forget that even the enrollment in land books cannot be done without a court. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117021	We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The next item is - Proposal for a decision to appoint a president and six members of the Civil Intelligence Council, Proposer: The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security is the Proposer of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security on the basis of Article 4 of the Decision on a Council on Civil Intelligence Oversight of the Security Intelligence Agency in conjunction with Article 110. The Act on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia. Prior to the start of the debate, the applicant submitted an amendment in accordance with Article 202. The Rules of Procedure shall become an integral part of this decision. Here is a representative of the proposer, respected committee president, the esteemed Sinisha Hajdash-Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117024	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia in order to achieve civil surveillance over the work of the security intelligence agencies was established by the Civil Control Council of the Security and Intelligence Agency. In accordance with Article 2(2), the Council shall consist of the President and 6 members appointed by the Croatian Parliament. The President and members of the Council shall be appointed for four years in accordance with paragraph 4. Four years ago, at a session held on 13 July 2018, the Assembly decided on the appointment of presidents and 6 members of the Civil Intelligence Council. It is apparent from the above that the current Council is approaching the end of the four-year term, and it is necessary to approach the appointment of a new Council meeting. Article 3 is replaced by the following: Decisions on a Council on Civil Oversight of Security Intelligence agencies issued a public invitation to submit a proposal for the appointment of presidents and 6 members of the Council of Reputable Public Employees meeting the provisions of Article 110(3) of the Law, which stipulates that candidates must be Croatian citizens of high professional training, with at least one member of the Council being a graduate lawyer, a graduate politologist and a graduate electrical engineer. In accordance with Article 4 of the same Decision, the proposal for appointing candidates shall be submitted to the Committee. At its meeting, the Committee shall determine whether they meet the proposals for the terms and conditions laid down in the law and decision, and shall lay down the proposals for the appointment of the President and 6 members of the Council to the Croatian Assembly. A public call for the appointment of presidents and six council members was published in the National No. 39/22 of 30 March 2020 and was concluded on 14 April 2022 and 14 proposals arrived, i.e. I'm running for office. At the same time, a public call was made on the website of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee called for a subcommittee, and the subcommittee discussed all the candidates' arrivals and established their validity, i.e. invalidity, which took place on 27 April 2022. The subcommittee submitted its report with a proposal for a conclusion to the Committee which discussed it at its meeting. The Committee adopted a report by the subcommittee, and concluded that with 13 candidates whose proposals and candidates of the legal candidate, or complete and timely submissions, the procedure for laying down proposals for the appointment of presidents and 6 members of the Civil Control Council of the Security Intelligence Agency and that these candidates and candidates will be discussed. On May 25th, 2022, a candidate withdrew her candidacy, so an interview was held with 11 candidates and candidates on 26 May 2022, and a conversation was held on 2 June with a candidate who was justly prevented from coming to talk on May 26, 2022. This concludes talks with all candidates whose bids have been justified. Both talks with candidates and candidates were attended by all subcommittee members along with the president and vice-president. At the 37th part closed session and in accordance with current practice, and which is supported during this public call for a joint agreement with the candidate for the appointment of presidents and six members of the Civil Intelligence Council, with respect to all legal provisions, and after having talked to all candidates and candidates whose bids were being called unanimously with 9 votes for a draft decision on the appointment of presidents and six members of the Civil Intelligence Council in the following composition: Zdravka President Čufar Saric, a graduate lawyer. For members of the Council of Science Goran Akrap, graduate electrical engineering engineer, Mr. Eduard Briski, extraordinary professor, dr. sc. Christian Kotar graduate politologist, outstanding professor Dr.sc. Aleksandar Marshalli Master of Law, Michael Puljic and Mile Štefanac of seven proposed candidates, three candidates are a doctor of science, and two candidates are in the status of an outstanding professor. All résumés of candidates are published on HS's website. And finally, that all members of the council after the appointment shall be based on an article. 13. Security check laws must pass security checks, so-called security checks must be carried out, so-called security checks must be carried out. a certificate in order to be able to carry out their tasks that enables them to directly monitor the work of security intelligence agencies. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117025	We have several replicas, please remain, first respected Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117026	Thank you. Dear colleague Hajdash Doncic. I have a question, so we have talked here several times in the assembly about the problem and the fact that certain employees, and these highly-positioned SOA employees, have private businesses and investments with the owners of large companies holding a significant share of the market in the energy market, and therefore are certainly both of the security interests and the SOA itself, so I want to know how many councils and the Committee on National Security question possible conflicts of interest between SOA employees and their private businesses.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117027	Thank you. So, only the Civil Watch Council actually doesn't have that role, namely its role is different. And as for the allegations that you mentioned, therefore by taking into account the documentation of the committee itself, these topics were already on the table that you mentioned, and in fact the committee has asked several times for an indication of the SOA's problem as to what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117028	The next replica honours Dalia Oreshkovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117029	Well, it's not exactly a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but it's 238, so I'm gonna get a heads-up. Let me just say that the Civil Watch Council is in accordance with article. 111, among other things, monitors the legality of the work of the security services, and in any case this issue could fall within that scope. It does not only work on complaints and representations of citizens but also monitors the legality of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117030	All right, you're... you're invited to a replica and then you're warned. We have the next violation of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Daniel Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117031	Your Honor. I'm calling in an article. 238, Mrs. Bencic again as in yesterday's debate, referring to Mr. Marija Radic, who is the deputy president of the Homeland Movement, and I said yesterday and repeat again in the assembly, means that Mr. Radic does not own any gas business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117032	Okay, you're also getting a warning. Replica, here's Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117033	As a matter of fact, it seems to me that the Republic of Croatia has set up a whole series of works from the Assembly Committee to the Civil Security Services Supervisory Council, which does not even know who controls and controls who, and we have reasonable reasons to doubt that senior SOA employees are using their public powers and functions for purposes for which they should not. If we have such a powerful institution that has its own methods of working, and it acts very intransparently and illegally and invests in that form of business that does not result in investments stemming from legitimate incomes, then we have reason to doubt that we have some forms of undermining of the state. I'm interested in what your board plans to do and should we extend this debate to issues that are not just about the appointments of these proposed persons? [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117034	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117035	In accordance with the Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, citizens' supervision for... SOA consists of immediately and on the issue of colleague Benčić, so the Council is doing the following tasks, monitoring the legality of the work of security services, monitoring and overseeing the measure of secret collection of data limiting constitutional human rights and fundamental freedoms and collecting knowledge and data from the previous point and delivering... The Security Council shall inform the President of the HS, the chair of the HS Committee designated for national security and the Directors of the Security and Intelligence Agency and shall inform the Directors of the way in which the application referred to in Article 1 shall be made. 112 of this law. So, all the topics that have always been on the table, so each MP has the right to exist, as some MPs on other topics ask different questions and the Committee on these topics discusses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117036	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Mosta first speaks to the esteemed Nino Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117037	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll be brief given all the insight we could get about the proposed candidates, we don't have any important objections so we can support this proposal from the board. But it should be pointed out that occasions such as those in which appointments are being made or where they are being discussed in a body report assembly are always an opportunity to propose some improvements or contempt within the legislative framework. So I think it makes perfect sense to talk about what the colleagues have led to see if there is a legislative foothold that some cases that exist or do not exist in it now would not be brought into it, problematic examinations, or that something is not precisely stated in the legislative framework to improve this to improve the practice of doing so. In that sense, I would like to make one suggestion to think about all possible improvements to the Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, in a decision taken by the Parliament in 2007. Decisions on the Council for the Civil Control of Security Intelligence agencies in accordance with Article 5. it is stated that the President and members of the Civil Surveillance Council cannot be members of the tight leadership of political parties and must not participate in party activities or act politically in the council. Now this is a bit imprecise, which would mean members of the narrow management of the articles, whether the president of the county organisation of some party's rope management or not, or whether it has to be a member of one of the party's main committees or, this is quite imprecise, but the legislator's intensity here is clear. Since it is a very serious position of the civil surveillance of SOA's work that this should not be used for particular political interests or that the person performing that surveillance should not be under particular political influence, which is quite justified and the legislator's intensity is clear. However, I would add one other thing here. Just as we don't want our security and intelligence apparatus managed by individual party interests, we don't want any foreign agents to manage them. So I think that we should consider that within the law it is clear that there can be no person in this council like we had a case of boredom that was employees of organizations financed from abroad, let's say in the last 5 years at least. because indeed, the fact that someone is paid from abroad is most often an NGO that can sometimes act as a parapolitical body, which may be the body that falls under this article. The 5th decision on the Civil Watch Council, that it should be regulated in this way. In this proposal, 6 members of the council do not have this problem, but in some previous council meetings, this problem has arisen and caused public dubiosis, so here I appeal to everyone to consider improving and preciseing the legislative framework in this sense in order to get in this important place the citizens' supervision of SOA people who will indeed follow only the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117038	Next is a debate on behalf of the Green-Left bloc representative, the respected Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117039	I thank the chairman. Therefore, the SOA Civil Surveillance Council is an extremely important parliamentary body for us and has an exceptional request to investigate possible illegalities in the work of SOA, but also to work on the presentations or complaints of citizens over possible violations of human rights by a security intelligence apparatus. For the past few years, the work of this council has been quite out of public focus. I'll say there were times when it was very much in the public's focus, when you saw this very important role in disclosing actually overstepping certain powers of SOA. I can tell from my own experience that there was no SOA Supervisory Council that the case of illegal verification which is to me and a few other colleagues who were now to say watch out candidates for members of the Civil Society Development Council, which is why we went to a secret security check as if we had this power. In any event, when that security check was carried out that there were no councils that found that human rights were violated by such a security check, it would not result in an end to the case in the Constitutional Court after 8 g. However, it is, where we have received the case, nor to what was actually a very good consequence of all this, which is that security checks were no longer regulated by the regulation but to be regulated by the law now and it is good to be so regulated and that it is clearly prescribed and that it is within the jurisdiction of the legislative rather than the executive body. Therefore, in addition to not focusing on the public, it is possible that the current composition of the council did not have adequate integrity or expertise or simply sufficient legislative powers to carry out certain effective controls. Why do I say that? So I'm saying this because the data says that in the past few years, in the term of office, from 2018 to 2022, there have been a total of 89 notions that the council has acted on, and in no case has established any illegality or irregularity, so of 89 concepts, 89 people felt that there were some illegalities or irregularities in the handling of the security intelligence apparatus. So we reiterate once again that the Council is an important body of HS and that by now it has certainly contributed to the improvement of SOA's work, but we expect it to be more agile and we expect to actually see that individual cases that we often see in the newspapers, most often in journalists, thanks to certain investigative journalists, to get their epilogue and through the Civil Watch Council. Today we are discussing a proposal for the name of 7 people who have been nominated for this new composition. It is crucial, in fact, that any institution would work for you, and so would the council who is sitting in it and whether these are persons not only of expertise but of personal integrity. So of these 7 people, a total of 7 selected candidates competed only 12 people, only 12 people were registered to the Civil Watch Council which actually speaks about whether or not the competition was popularized enough or that the council had lost its function in public, the essential function it had, or that the public did not see it that way. The Law on the Security Intelligence System itself defines the terms and conditions for council members and says that the council, in the Council, can be appointed to the Croatian citizens of high professional training, where at least one member of the council must be a graduate lawyer, a political scientist or an electric engineer. Therefore, the law only recognises the professional equipment and the field of specialisation, but fails to define the criteria of personal integrity and recognition of a person in the protection of human rights. The decision on the 2007 Civil Watch Council states that a public invitation is being called for to propose candidates for the president and members of the council from the ranks of prominent public employees. So, respected public employees who again meet here the very conditions of the law. Now in this council meeting we have the appointment of 4 persons from the previous term and 3 new persons and now that we have watched CV of these persons, so this element that they are recognized in public or that from the ranks of prominent public employees we have not really seen in some. Here we will tell you specifically, so one of these members who is proposed is Mr. Michael Puljic, a history professor from which the résumé is not clear what his contribution to the work of the council is. It is a history professor without experience in some segment of human rights protection by any security apparatus of the state, etc., nor in the field of technology or knowledge of the security system, so we ask the promoter to actually explain to us how it is proposed to work in the council. So what he saw was that some of his qualifications were to deal with issues from the Homeland War, that he had completed a history study at the Croatian Catholic University, that he was a doctoral student and was a journalist. And now, but we don't have any of that relevant experience in protecting human rights by a security apparatus or a state or a law firm or anything else. So when we statistically look at the work of the council so far, it seems to us that the reports we read do not reflect reality. Although as a club we can't have detailed information on the performances or from the Council's report on the work, we can't ask ourselves what it's possible that you can't find any illegality in four years, but irregularity. So that means that we either have a perfectly functioning apparatus or that the council doesn't work well enough. They would also have problems with the fact that the very reports submitted by the Council do not make it clear whether opinions exist at times, whether all members of the council have agreed on whether there are no irregularities or you do not have, or whether there have been isolated opinions, which would be an important indicator of how the council actually works. So the worst thing that can happen to the council's own institution is that citizens don't trust it, that the council itself becomes a mechanism for defending security intelligence agencies from citizens. Having this information that out of 89 concepts, no illegality has been found, we are afraid that the perception of the council in the public is going in that direction. However, as far as you may be able to say that we are mistaken about this and that SOA is perfectly functioning, we must say that in light of the latest affairs on the real estate business and the connection of the highly positioned SOA employee, as well as the former SOA director with certain interest groups in Croatia as part of the joint real estate business, we must say that we do not seem to have all the mechanisms of protection against and prevention of conflicts of interest that we should have. Because it's business with companies or owners of companies that are certainly of a security interest to SOA. Because you can't be in any of the countries of this world being a company that holds a huge share of the energy market of security interest. And if this company and its owner are still the owner of the largest distributor and food chain, and food production is much more than security. And then perhaps it really is a conflict of interest that those in charge of dealing with security aspects both in the economy and in general national security with these same people have some private business or private interests. I find that indeed an institution like SOA should have mechanisms to prevent such a thing, as I found it for example that the CNB should have in relation to its bond-traders as HanFA should, for example, have in relation to its employees, not to trade privately with their securities and market surveillance. We have a serious problem that people in charge of controlling some part of the public sector at private time are doing private business with those they need to monitor. And that's not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117040	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Maria Kapulice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117041	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here as a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and a man who has participated in this process since the talks with all the candidates that we have set up on the board and each of the representatives could participate in these talks. With each of us having talked, I think there was no flaw in the fact that even the recognition of this council that most of the members elected were also in the previous assembly, there were no objections to their work, their reports were coming to the board, all the members of the board were informed about it as well as the details of those of our citizens, so the council serves, who suspect that the security intelligence services in relation to them operate outside the framework of the law, outside the framework that the law allows them to do. We, who are members of the board, unfortunately not all of us can do so, but it is so prescribed by our Rules of Procedure that each of these applications has been very seriously treated, that after each report, the council has done everything possible within the framework of their powers in relation to any component of the security and intelligence system of the Republic of Croatia and has been confirmed to us by members of the previous council that, in the search of any information in the clearing of such situations, there has been absolutely no obstruction and I think it should be emphasized by any of the members of the Security System of the Republic and I think it is very commendable. I don't understand where some of the data that was brought here was just brought up by a colleague, the fact that no irregularities were ever detected. The irregularities were, they were seen, they were directed by law to the competent authorities, to the President of the Republic, to the President of the Government, to the Office of the National Security Council, so it does not stand that the Council did not react, that it did not notice, that it did not refer and that such things were not, and this was the purpose of the Council being cleared and that all questions were answered. And as for the candidates and the question of who has dealt with human rights and who is involved and who is in the focus of human rights, so look at human rights is not just those who are paid to practice human rights. I suppose human rights can also be dealt with by those who are not paid for, who have an interest in this area. So I don't see that it would be any kind of a grudge to any of the candidates who made the call. And as for the number of candidates, he would not conclude that only twice as many candidates as we should have chosen reported to the competition, that it was now a signal that it was not transparently announced that choice because even in the election process so far, when it came to filling council members, it was a similar situation. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117042	We have a replica of the esteemed Daniel Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117043	Dear Mr. Hood. You're sitting on the board, right? Not only am I interested in whether you would agree with me that all associations that I think are doing a lot of them in Croatia under the cover of protection of human rights should check where they are financed, whose money is financed and how much do they lobby to have their people filtered into certain organisations where they can act and pressure institutions like SOA Republic? [[So I'm sitting, not... it's standing.]] I think that these various organizations that operate under the cover of human rights are financed by foreign capital, and I think that this is something that should be very well checked, we should not be able to go through it in this way as it has passed so far under our laws in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117044	Here's a thank you for asking. Dear colleague, see if anyone poses a threat to the national security of the Republic of Croatia then it is quite no matter if it is financed by foreign or domestic capital. Today, this concept of foreign and domestic is very relative. And as for the organizations that are funded, I wouldn't go down that line of Putin to declare them undesirable organizations. Any one who is indicated to act against security, against the security objectives of the Republic of Croatia is likely not to be the issue of the Civil Surveillance Council, there are probably mechanisms and there are services that will be dealt with and which such things will be checked. So the state has the right and duty to defend against such threats and it will do so when it considers it necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117045	Next replica honoured Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117046	Thank you. Well, here's a colleague you've heard of Mr. Spijic, I would absolutely agree because, for example, there are those associations that publish their financial reports, so it's transparently seen from which sources are funded and those that don't. The same goes for political parties, so I think it would be very interesting to discuss how much, for example, the cost of renting the media space corresponds to what was submitted in the report, and how much more so and from whom it was paid, for example. So there are different things that should be controlled in this country, so I only trust those who really publish it, and those who don't publish it and not really. However, I wanted to ask you directly one thing. Of you, of these seven candidates, who among them is recognized in public as, say, a human rights fighter, paid or not paid whatever, who among them is recognized as the protector of human rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117047	Well, you recognize colleagues are probably all who have a good PR and so present themselves and so your engagement certificate... is being followed in the media. And as for transparency, I assume you've been thinking about political parties and political campaigns, so every political party publishes its reports, each political party has control of the State Audit and gets an opinion. As far as I know, the party I belong to has received unconditional opinions for years without any comment. Of course, here I call on all the political parties to act similarly and to take the opinion of the State Audit and they get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117048	Okay, thank you, Hood. You're done. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Daniel Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117049	The Honorable is... Art. In 238 we are indirectly called again, so I will say I agree with you, Mrs. Bencic, that everything should be transparent and we can be asked for all of us. I would also like to point out that all of you who were in the associations should now have a party, and you get the money for the associations, so you're out for the PR, so let's see how much of that PR you used for your party, and how much you used for those associations. We should file the same report and see who's wearing the hair and who's wearing the water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-30-0.u117050	Okay, this was your replica. You're getting a warning. With this, we've exhausted the debate, and I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Following is the report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Boris Milosevic of the Croatian Parliament.
