ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u83028	And now it will come to the turn of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, and the honourable representative Vesna Vucilović will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u83029	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Two years ago, the world faced an epidemic of coronary viruses. Croatia reacted very quickly, every municipality, every city, every county formed a headquarters, but despite all measures, we must agree that the balance of the dead was defeated. In two years, 13,000 people died with covid or covid. We'll probably never know, but it's not too important because every life is precious. The whole epidemic situation compares itself to the Homeland War, and from the very beginning it has been declared an unprecedented crisis. Last week, preliminary figures related to the census finally came out, a decline in Bible proportions of 400,000 inhabitants in just 10 years. Every year, it is an average of 40,000 people less. You'll agree that it's far more than the number of dead than the covid or the covid. So if an epidemic of the coronary virus is an unprecedented crisis, then what is this? What are we going to call it and how are we going to fight it? What the whole public expected was an appropriate reaction from the ruling. During that period of 10 years, if we neglect a brief experiment with the government of Tihomir Oreshkovic, two people are at the top of the government, one is Zoran Milanovic whose prime minister's term began in 2011, the other is Andrej Plenkovic. The current president Milanovic first kept his mouth shut, and when he spoke better, he did not. This Bible flood was commented by removing guilt from both this and the past governments and announcing the return of the evicted because there are people leaving and returning. Imagine. Let's just remember that in public he's been raising a storm over smaller things for days and weeks. And here he said, people go and come back. The current Prime Minister, however, is trying to minimize and marginalise all of this somehow. Everywhere it is, it's been going on for years, we've been working, etc. I have to say it's not like that everywhere, look at Slovenia, look at Poland, and the fact is, it's not like that everywhere. And if it lasts for years and if something is done obviously not taking what results and the conclusion is the same, it needs to be changed, it needs to be done, it needs to be reacted. To begin with, maybe we should have scientific advice for demographics. Our demographers have been warning for years, but there's no hearing what they're saying, like they're talking to walls. They have solutions, recommendations, completed strategies, so just listen to them for once, at least apply some of what they're proposing. If in the crown crisis we listen to the profession and stick to the profession, so why don't we also do it in this area which is obviously perhaps, but perhaps not but certainly a far bigger problem and leads to the demographic devastion of Croatia. Therefore, I appeal from the Croatian National Assembly to finally establish scientific advice for demographics, but also to return the Ministry of Demography because we obviously need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u83083	The next club of MPs will be the Social Democrats, the respected representative Irena Simunic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u83084	The Honorable Vice President of HS, colleagues and fellow MPs. In view of the lack of a previous foster care law since 1 January 2019, the goals of improving foster care have not been achieved. I doubt that the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Act will also change the current situation in society and contribute to quality foster care, as well as increasing number of foster parents. The main weight of the problem comes down to positive changes in the calculation of labour and supply fees, thinking that this will increase the quality of care for users. Taking into account the inflation prices, the foster parents will actually remain at the same level. The big question is whether this minimum increase in compensation will solve all system problems. In addition, it is not the very statement by the Minister of Resort on the Enlargement of the Vladimir Nazor Children's House, as if a message is being sent in advance that this new law will not receive the desired results, i.e. that the number of foster parents will not grow because the number of children waiting for the foster home is constantly growing. In addition to this document, a strategic document for raising quality as well as the number of foster parents was to be prepared, since current data are defeating the needs of the system. I also point out the disappointment of the foster parents whom the minister has promised to grow with 1.1.2022, we are witnessing today that this is not the case. The promise is not fulfilled, and trust in the system is broken again. Hosts are rightly concerned about price increases and inflation. They rightly wonder whether the hoarding will exceed the fines raised. The foster home is getting smaller every day, the new ones are gone, it's a fact, and we're all aware of that, while on the other hand, the need for foster care is growing. I repeat, this problem cannot and will not be solved only by money. It is necessary to sensitize the public what a foster family means to a child, how important it is to open its heart and its home to children who do not have it, to care for children who cannot grow up in a biological family is a great test of humanity and empathy of the society in which we live. In the Republic of Croatia, foster care has not been brought to life evenly across the whole area, but there are significant differences in individual regions. It takes a lot more effort and investment to promote this, above all, sacrificial call through public stands, round tables, workshops, various kinds of promotional material, in order to bring this kind of social service closer to the citizens. Furthermore, the big failure remains in the final draft of the law. Such a bill continues to fail to include life partners in the definition of foster families because it is undeniable that same-sex couples are fostering children and not just one couple whose defense has been brought to the Constitutional Court but rather several couples, therefore there is no reason why this provision would not enter the law. This would ultimately bring the Household Act into line with the Law on the Registered Partnership and with the Constitutional Court's decision, the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and other European norms and practices of the European Court of Human Rights. There is a legitimate question as to why the Government has such a problem in citing life partners and the Household Act. Why don't you step forward with your decision, not just when we're ordered by Europe. In order to raise foster care to a higher level, it must move towards reform and change of family law and more specifically regulate the rights of foster parents. In order for this final bill to be a turning point, things will have to change. And things and people. The social system cannot and will not function in quality without the good cooperation of all stakeholders. Despite the care of professional staff in children's homes, no institution can replace the family. It is therefore unacceptable to waste time and delay solving problems. In the case of such sensitive problems related to the sad stories of life most vulnerable, it is necessary to respond to problems. Such problems don't last a while. The deal with the profession should have been a starting point and a basis for cooperation. The foundation of joint creation of the necessary amendments to such an important law. Unfortunately, with the absence of consensus, the opportunity has been missed, and only time will show the justification of such conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u83155	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and Vosa, a respected representative, Marijana Puljak, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u83156	I thank the chairman. The Osijek University of Josip Juraj Strossmayer recently decided when assessing whether the doctoral dissertation of Mr Vice Mihanović plagiarized the doctoral dissertation "Economic effects of maritime transport and transport in the function of economic development" on 28 February 2018 at the Faculty of Economics in Osijek should be carefully corrected. Doctoral dissertation needs to be corrected. Such a decision has so far been unmarked in the academic world, not only in Croatia but worldwide. As we have heard from the Minister of Science himself, such a decision has neither legal, legal stand nor in any regulation that defines the Croatian system of higher education. After this amazing news in public, the data came out that the Faculty of Osijek can be praised by a number of prominent people from political and public life who have doctored at this university. In particular, they were saddened to write about a full van of politicians who allegedly went from Split to get PhDs in Osijek. The latest news is about how 139 PhDs were defended there from 2012 to 2020. It is only 18 PhDs less than they were defended in the same period at the Zagreb Faculty of Economics, which by the number of students is three and a half times the size of the Osijek economy. The number of PhDs is even higher than the University of Rijeka and Split in the last five years. As the media further suggested the questionable quality of the study itself, the Scientific and Higher Education Agency's expert commission, which in 2017 identified a number of shortcomings in the study. A large number of mentors in PhDs are not even employees of the Faculty of Economics in Osijek. There is a striking selectivity in the appointment of mentors, and some teachers do not meet the prescribed qualification criteria for performing mentoring and teaching work at all. In addition to the agency's recommendation, the ministry has given a three-year deadline to address the shortcomings. As the process of recrediting higher schools is under way, we are also interested in the status of recreditation of study programmes of the University of Osijek, especially the Faculty of Economics, which was scheduled to be carried out in 2018. It is not out of the question that the head of the accreditation advice of the Science and Higher Education Agency is precisely the proctor of the University of Osijek, Ms Sonja Villa. All this calls into question the quality of the Faculty of Economics, but also the reputation of the entire university, it is therefore important to discuss everything here in the Assembly in particular at the Assembly Committee on Science, Education and Culture, and therefore I have also sent a proposal to reflect the thematic session and call for all stakeholders to come to the session and therefore to discuss a number of affairs that have recently brought down the reputation of this university and raise questions about the quality and numerous academic titles acquired at that university. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u83232	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, a respected representative of Urša Raukar Gamulin will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u83233	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A few days ago, we were abandoned by Ankica Leigh. Ankica Lepej has forever entered her name in the history of fighting for justice, honesty, public interest and public well-being. She was the first whistle when she was in 1998. In cooperation with then young journalist Orlando Obad, the Croatian public revealed that President Tudjman in his property card did not mention the account of his wife on which they were on, the accounts on which were large sums of 210 thousand German marks and almost 16 thousand dollars, and when the bank announced a reward of even a million kuna to reveal who gave this shameful information to the media she publicly told the media I did so, I do not want the bank to accuse someone who had no connection with the discovery of Tudjman's savings. It was an act of great civil courage and honesty. At that time, everyone around President Tudjman objected to the evidence that it was not a violation and a complete moral fall at the head with the President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, Smiley Falcon, with a famously incredible statement that the money was not property, so it was not necessary to report it. Ankica Lepapi was fired, brought to the police station at night where she was interrogated for 8 hours, for 3 hours without a lawyer, a criminal charges were filed against her who had been dismissed after the death of President Tudjman, she was left with 2 children because her husband had already lost his job for reporting crime in the company he worked in. No, but all that didn't shake her up, and she was always saying something I wouldn't have done otherwise, no matter what happened to me, I just couldn't help it. Yeah, she couldn't help it, she couldn't because she was honest, brave, and truthful. She couldn't keep up with the lie and injustice, she heard that President Tudjman was telling the pensioners that his wife was retired and that she herself was barely making ends meet and couldn't keep the truth of the hidden and unrecognized savings in the bank. She couldn't despite everything that happened to her after that, she just couldn't. In 2003 she wrote the book Truth, a conscience above banking secrets, but since the bookstores were not interested in selling one of the great halls and the brakes in the fight against social anomalies was and autocensorship sold it itself. I noticed that she was more fond of the younger generation that gave me hope that someone would try to do something good for society. She tirelessly supported all progressive citizens' initiatives from supporting students in their fight for accessible education to oppose the homophomous referendum on marriage in 2013. She knew she needed to be solid with the weaker ones and take care of the public interest. And at times when she struggled with malignancies, she spread optimism without giving up that fight. The silent public is not afraid of any government. People don't seem to understand that they have the right to rebel when things around them aren't good. They don't appreciate their individual freedom at all, and without it, there's no free society. The fight for free society is still going on, the Ankica Lepi will be missing, a warm, kind and gentle woman, and so brave and unwavering. It remains a memory of her and our obligation never to give up in the civil and political efforts to make our society better and fairer, to draw him from the midst of corruption, nepotism, lies and theft. Dear Ankice, thank you so much for everything, you remain our role model and our inspiration, our colleague and our friend, we will never forget you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u83289	Now we're going to stop at this point a little bit and as scheduled in one hour, since it's one hour we're going to be taking a stand on behalf of the representatives' clubs and independent representatives and the first one on behalf of the Representatives' Club Mosta is going to speak to the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u83290	Good afternoon. They began to change their coats, they began to change their hats, the same people who were only a month ago here here, colleagues of Hrebak in HS I had now ordered our services to cut out what he was saying, called our referendum on the abolition of the covid certificate by parasiting the dead and emboldenedly rejoiced because allegedly Hrvoje Zekanovic put a Glog stake in the heart of our referendum, and thus confirmed that that Zekanovic's attitude was not an act that calls people to vaccination but an act that had a political agenda so to harm the referendum, just as Hrebac then went here in HS on 15 December to harm the referendum against covid certificates. Today or last night in the "Open" Dario Hrebac is sleazyly announcing that at a meeting of the ruling coalition, he said a covid certificate should be abolished. And we're actually going to come to what serious scientists, not quasi scientists and serious professions have been saying for a long time. Covid certificates are not epidemiological measures, covid certificates have no scientific basis because the coronary virus can spread both vaccinated and unvaccinated. I was infected recently, so I didn't go to HRT, so if I didn't have to test myself, I wouldn't even know I was infected, you'd think it was a little cold. Also representative Sandra Bencic twice vaccinations, infected she could enter HS here, talk to you, hold press conferences because no one controls her, she has covid confirmation because she's vaccinations and spread the virus and everyone else so that now I don't mean anything bad about my colleague Bencic or accuse her of anything, I'm talking about the nonsense of the covid certificate. So what the Croatian people are in a referendum with 400,000 signatures, what the waist, the serious profession has been saying for months now is that the Spanish scientists have long since found in a great research they will now start to say many. We know that those who were the most fierce in this parasite and signalling virtues like them are concerned about those who are threatened by the coronary virus for the elderly and the sick, and we are insolent. I'll remind you of what all the media have written, says behind the rise of the Mosto's popularity remains a bloody trail and dead people, that's what certain media have written, and we never said a word against people being vaccinated, that there is a need to take care of older, immunocompromised, people who are threatened by this virus. But we've also never allowed ourselves to be forced into the media as much as some trumpets here in HS have allowed us to rule out common sense, and common sense has long been saying that we have to go back to normal lives and that we have to live with this virus as mankind has lived with all viruses in our past. So that's right, colleagues, so no one's talking about how much we're due to severe disinfection, masks, this, how much we're not more resistant to other viruses, bacteria and everything else. So, this crisis, so I remember my hosting when everyone was in fear when Willy Berosch was a hero, I was saying, let's take into account all segments of our lives, people are dying because our health care system is bad because they pick up bacteria in the hospital, people are dying because they don't have time to search, people are dying and having problems, they're dying because they don't have money because of the economic situation, we're growing gas prices, energy, food. Psychologically how this affects our children, I don't know, three infected online classes, children constantly on cell phones, computers, and if anyone's talking about it. So, let's finally get serious and I'm glad that the referendum that set off the Mosta is that it led or that it would lead to the abolition of the covid of the confirmation, a pointless measure. From the very beginning. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u83380	On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, a respected representative, Andreja Maric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u83381	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Two days ago, I sent an open letter to Minister Beros, asking him what strategy you've brought to fight against the new variant of omicron covid-19, which is why we're taking down numbers by the number of infected, there's a lot of sickness, there's a lot of pressure on the health system, we're in the world by the number of deaths? When will you listen to the advice of the profession and us from the opposition to bring a scoreboard of measures that you would adapt to the epidemiological situation in each county and all clearly and in time to communicate with the citizens? When will you bring a clear cost of benefit analysis and present it to us in the assembly and the public, on the one hand, how much is increased testing, the well-being of vaccination, the covid certificate in broad application, the impact on the economy, and on the other hand, how much is it costing the day of treatment of the patient, the day on the respirator, the costs due to the great number of illnesses and the immeasurably, the number of lives lost? Ministers, you make late decisions, you don't explain them, you don't publish them in time, you don't communicate well with the profession and the public, the number of deaths is growing, the health system is about to collapse, and you, as a headquarters, the ministry and the government, are constantly calculating something and you hesitate. How long are you going to be like that? Unsatisfactory health professionals who have been mobilized for nearly two years are dissatisfied, and their recommendations are not followed while family doctors learn first from the media. The doctor and the nurses are missing, they're choked by too much administration. They're dissatisfied because you're misrepresenting the recommendations you make, and health care is becoming more and more inaccessible. The test capacity is limited, the current test system is simply unsustainable with these figures because doctors are already losing half their working time to administration regarding testing. The list of offices that have conducted testing so far exists, if you try hard to look for it online, but many citizens don't know it because you haven't informed them, so then they come to their family doctors many unannounced looking for testing. You ordered these same family doctors to conduct testing in their 17.1. of this year, but they didn’t all get the necessary tests or enough time for staff and infrastructure organization. Family doctors have been warning you for days that such a decision potentially endangers health and not covid patients. Why don't you look up to other countries, for example, neighbouring Slovenia, how a large number of citizens are being tested. The test list also includes numerous pharmacies that you say are not in the CESIH system, so you can't get them through the manual. The testing organization isn't the same all over the county. You spend the money our citizens pay for health insurance all your life to vaccinate and test foreign citizens. You send our doctors and sisters to these jobs while our citizens are waiting for PSR tests for more than a week. Fast tests are not recognised anywhere as valid for receiving a covid certificate except for us, but many citizens especially younger require confirmation of the PSR test. The question is how will you count the infected if an individual is tested with BAT, so with a quick test and turns out to be positive, and then in a few days, the PSR is also confirmed while another citizen is only sufficient for a quick test. How are you going to show how many are really infected? You claim the hospital system is also ready for the fifth wave of pandemic. Does the public know who's all forced to treat covid patients? Do our citizens know that they are treated not only by infectologists and pulmologists but by healthcare professionals of all profiles who are forced to further educate themselves for what they have not specialized in, yet they are doing their best to save the lives of many of our fellow citizens. Have you secured all options for immuno modulation drugs, monoclonal antibodies to all hospital facilities. I know that the minister read my letter because we had a short relationship after that. I asked him to see family medical representatives for a conversation, to tell him for himself what difficulties they were facing. They need to improve each other's communication and relationships. He said he would receive them and then I see in the media a memo from the ministry in which ad-homine attacks KHOM President Natasu Ban Toskic, a doctor who rightly and systematically points to the fiasco health administration not only on the conduct of the pandemic crisis. KOHOM remains behind its claim that the introduction of rapid testing into the offices of family doctors is harmful and dangerous, as it directly endangers patients and medical staff. Nowhere in Europe is testing done in offices, but at separate testing points. The moment she made the statement that she didn't have enough quick tests, it was really like that. Not only does she say so, but many other leaders of medical associations, but also many doctors individually. Minister, it's time for you to listen to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u83461	Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Nadica Dreven Buddinski will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u83462	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here are our athletes who delight us almost daily, with our achievements in top-of-the-line successes, we are among the best in the world. However, we cannot boast that we are an active nation or very few people engaged in sports. How do we encourage top-notch sports and how does the citizens' activity work? We came back from last year's Olympic and Paralympic Games with a total of 15 medals, which was just a cream on the cake of all the successes our athletes have achieved and thus showed us how they are willing to respond to all the challenges the pandemic has brought them. These successes were accompanied by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in last year for state awards for top sports achievements nearly 13 million kunas were paid, of which 6 million and 650 thousand kunas were paid for winning medals in games in Tokyo. It's just a small part of everything this government's been doing for sport since 2016. In the last 5 years. Significant steps have been made to invest and develop sports as well as to encourage our citizens to play sports. One of the most important steps was to adopt the National Programme of Sports, the first strategy in the history of sports brought by this government in 2019. and which opened up the possibility of further development and increasing investment in sport. From 2016 to 2016 Investments from the state budget grew in 100% amount, thus increasing the amount of funding for 5 roof sports associations that care about top sports, sports of people with disabilities, academic and school sports as well as in all national alliances financed by the Ministry of Tourism and Sports through the Croatian Olympic Committee. For example, there were 114 million kunas in the pandemic in 2016. Allotted as much as 176 million kunas. With continued care for sport through roof sports associations as one of the last tasks among the many activities we carry out, I will set out investments in sports infrastructure to ensure the possibility of training throughout Croatia for many of our top athletes, as well as for all Croatian citizens. Three years ago. A 100 million kuna project has been co-financed by the local and regional communities in terms of investment and reconstruction and construction of sport infrastructure. I am pleased to see that among these projects and larger investments are such as covering the swimming pool on Zvončec or rebuilding the studio stadium in Karlovac, as well as a series of smaller projects of football courts, tennis courts, outdoor exercises, renovation of sports halls in every corner of Croatia. In the coming period, we expect an even greater step in this direction from both the state budget and the NPOO, and the multiannual financial framework. It will continue to encourage day-to-day sport as an extremely important segment for the best quality of life of Croatian citizens, and I would like to point out that a significant step has been made in this part, has increased by 10 times the means to promote local sport. Namely, 2016. Only 1.5 million kunas for local sports programmes were granted for 25 programmes, while in 2021. the co-financed 161 program worth 16 million kuna. By continuing to increase and invest in the last 5 years. In this way, it has been able to provide free sport for 200 thousand of our citizens, and mostly children and young people. In addition to this part of special importance for children's sports and the Croatian School Sports Federation, which has increased the allocation in 100% amount and which year-on-year increases its number of programmes and activities for more than 120 thousand children has an opportunity for free sport activities. I would use this opportunity to thank both the government and the tourism ministry for taking care of sports both at the top sports and regional units, and I would like to thank all volunteers who make their voluntary time and their efforts to keep these children from the lowest competitions to here European and global competitions, and I hope that the government will continue to invest and care more strongly for the entire system of sports, and in this year it is the adoption of the new Sport Act that will allow for the realisation of a series of measures and activities that are prescribed on the strategy and basis that will continue to support our athletes more strongly, but also all Croatian citizens in sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u83592	On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club will now speak the esteemed representative Marin Lerotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u83593	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues of modern sovereignty, something this government likes to boast and be proud of. Modern sovereignty characterised as a strong state that is trying to exploit its international position and influence for the interests and well-being of its citizens. Often when it comes to the construction of the Peljega Bridge, a strong state during the time the Chinese built the bridge, we failed to build access roads, a strong state of modern sovereignty when buying rapale fighter planes by the French when the president of the state asked for contracts to see what it was and how it was signed, then we are as a strong state that has a strong international position, powerful influence must he ask the French whether the president of the Republic has the right to see these contracts, whether the committee in charge has the right to see these contracts. And then we come to the part where we often spoke and warned from the IDS Club, which is a razor wire placed by Slovenians on the Croatian border also using the territory of Croatia, means Slovenia has set a certain, certain piece of wire on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, when our citizens have to ask Slovenians for permission to pass from one part of the country to another, there is a modern and strong Croatia that uses its powerful international influence and position to solve problems in the interests of its citizens. And then we come to the last part of this short period that happened recently, which is that the foreign minister in one catering facility had a meeting with the Slovenian representatives of the ministry where they agreed that Slovenian fishermen had the right to use the Croatian territorial sea all the way to Umag, and on the other hand Slovenia will no longer write penalties to Croatian fishermen. Slovenia will no longer write penalties to Croatian fishermen that Croatian fishermen receive in the Croatian territorial sea because the Slovenians still considered and drew the line although the arbitration agreement has never been completed, although Croatia has withdrawn from the arbitration agreement because it is the same Slovenia that compromised the same arbitration agreement. And where is the fight of the Croatian Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the interests of our fellow citizens and that this same ministry agreed on the meeting without asking Istrian fishermen what their objectives are, what their needs are, and how the Croatian state can, must and should do everything to protect the interests of its fellow citizens, those of the same citizens who go out to sea to catch the fish, to return, to sell it and to feed their families and to pay for their costs and obligations. The same state is agreeing with Slovenians, I repeat, beyond the knowledge of Istrian fishermen, on some catering facilities at meetings that no one has ever known, which by chance went public that Slovenian fishermen are allowed to sail and fishermen in the Croatian territorial sea, and I repeat, in return, generously Slovenians will no longer punish Croatian fishermen in the Croatian sea, past and contrary to the arbitration agreement that they have compromised themselves. We therefore want to express strong support for Istrian fishermen in the desire and need to preserve their interests and ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to show this strong modern sovereignty and strong influence of Croatia and the position of Croatia in international bodies and finally take a clear position that will be only and exclusively in the interest of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84334	Honorable MPs, esteemed MPs good morning. We'll continue to work, and I'll proceed on the basis of an article. 247. The Rules of Procedure of the HS, in accordance with what the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy have proposed, propose that we hold a joint debate on the agenda points foreseen for today. These are seven points: - Final proposal of the Social Care Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 218; - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Act, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 219; - Final proposal of the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 220; - Final proposal of the Law on Education and Rehabilitation, second reading, P.Z. No. 221; - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Psychological Activity, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 222; - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Social Labour, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 223; - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social and Pedagogical Activity, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 224. Do you agree with that proposal? Comrade Voter, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84335	Dear Mr. President, in principle, we agree with this proposal even though this is a huge package of laws, but in that case, if we could unify the debate, I ask you that the time foreseen for putting out views on behalf of the club is not like last time 15 but to be possible 20 minutes because indeed 15 minutes for 7 laws is quite little.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84336	In principle, I don't mind, but I'd like to warn you that we already have 16 clubs, so 16 times 20 is 320 minutes that lasts forever, so as far as I'm concerned, it can, but here's more suggestions, colleague Selak Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84337	Of course, at least a larger amount of time is necessary if it is to go with a united debate and we agree with it but we are in principle not in agreement with a united debate. You knew that we had this kind of law package in our first reading, we warned that they couldn't all be put in the same basket because it's for you, and the minister first shouldn't allow a principle word about some abstract sociale, if we can't do everything today, and we're ready to work late in the night, we can do some other day and transfer some of the law, but I think all of the stakeholders in the society that are concerned with these laws deserve a detailed debate on each individual law, and we are opposed to a united debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84338	Okay. We now have a colleague, Ursha Raukar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84339	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We do not agree with the united debate simply because there is very little time left for such an important reform as social care reform, especially when considering that this set of laws that comes before us did not take into account almost anything from the public debate, did not take into account the opinion of the profession, the academic community, and then we believe that here is the opportunity to really systematically and analytically discuss it. Time can't be a reason 300 minutes, 360 billion And 732 is important to get [[Okay, okay.]] if you can do anything better than this proposal. [[- Okay. - Okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84340	It can, well, mean, just a second, so we're gonna have to vote since we have suggestions this isn't going to a united debate. I'll accept it's 20 minutes on behalf of the clubs, so it's a united debate and 20 minutes of clubs, and we'll vote on that. A colleague Dretar and counterpart Vukilovic have now come forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84341	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I agree with respected colleagues that this is a serious and large package of laws and that, behind these laws, most of these laws stand living people. Living people with real, life-threatening problems that many of us who are healthy are almost incomprehensible, and they are real and they are real every day and every day these people are experiencing these extremely difficult problems, and I agree that a united debate may be one way, I'm sure no one in this assembly wants to do it, but it still gives a little impression that we want to speed up this job just so I don't know what to do before home, I just don't think we should do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84342	And colleague Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84343	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. I agree with my colleagues that this is really a very important package of laws, but we had a united debate at first reading, and very little really talked about these, let's call them so collokial chamber laws, so I propose a compromise solution to unite the first two points, means the Social Care Act and the Household Law, and we separate these five laws that apply to chambers and we have a united debate again on these chamber laws. So instead of a united debate on all seven laws, let's have two discussions because the chamber laws have connections in some way, but they are specific and should respect the position of the employees working in the welfare system and the laws that regulate their profession. And I'll just point out that all the chambers are against and they were very active, so there are a lot of proposals in public consultation 2400, and I think those people who work in the system deserve to be paid a little more attention in this second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84344	Thank you, too. Okay, so first I'm going to put out a motion to hold a united debate with the club speeches for 20 minutes. So it's according to the Rules of Procedure, it's voted between the representatives who are present here and most who are going to be there. So, first of all, I am voting to conduct a united debate on 7 proposed points and to speak 20 minutes in clubs. Who's in? Just keep your hands where I can count your colleagues and your colleagues. Who's restrained? Five, and who's against it? Here's the results. You can get your hands down real good, thank you. Yes, for united means it voted for 40, the abstentions were 3 and 5 were against, so we will conduct a united debate on 7 proposed points and 20 minutes will speak clubs. Thank you very much. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. I would now ask the Minister of Labour, the pension system, the family and the social policy of respected Josip Aladrovic to present the above-mentioned draft laws. Here you go. Stanke, okay. Sit down. Let's go now with the breaks, first the vice president of the Vedovic Assembly called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84345	The Honorable President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister. I am looking for this break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club to once again warn of the possible very negative far-reaching consequences of what we are going to discuss today and what day to vote in. Why am I so dramaticly announcing and looking for this break? It is primarily because these changes that are announced despite some improvements that followed between the two readings remain in the wrong direction, the wrong course of social policymaking in this country if it is even about Croatia having social policy. Social policy far exceeds the notion of social care, social protection one of the primary functions of the state, is a system where citizens and those most vulnerable in our society are troubled, abandoned, poored, maimed and addressed to their country and need to be very scrupulous and on their eggs to look for the best model to protect the rights of these people. What has been offered as a concept, as a model and a paradigm, is contrary to everything that the profession in Croatia has said, what is found in social work as a science, which is contrary to the practice and tradition of Croatia because we are losing social care centres not only in a formal sense that they lose their personality but we lose them as institutions. The model on which the system is to be designed rests on us with the democratic model offices where people come in. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84346	Thank you. The break is approved. Comrade Voter, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84347	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Club I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP club. [[Applause]] It happens to everyone. Can you give me back my time?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84348	No, I'll give it to you for 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84349	But I know that you know that I don't fit into your club or your party at all. That would be grief for both of you and for me. We can. Dear Mr. President of the Assembly, please take a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club in order to reconsider all the negative effects this so-called reforming a social care system that isn't really. Why isn't that? First, this is a reform that seeks to centralise the social care system in a violent way, and if there is a need for strong decentralisation and strong co-operation between the local self-government unit, the social community in creating, identifying needs and creating social services for residents and the local community, then it is exactly the social care system. But you just cut it this way, you centralize the system, you separate it from the local community. Secondly, I don't remember which law, which the law package was so aggressively against the opinion of the profession, but the whole, of the employees in the welfare system, the academic community, the chambers, are all against this law, you insist on it. And thirdly, this law does not follow and recognise the needs of socially endangered citizens in the time in which we live, does not recognise the needs and does not meet the services of the same needs. And one more thing, but not less important. With the Household Law proposal, you are once again ignoring the fact that registered partners are equally important, they have equal rights in accessing the social service of foster care. You're ignoring them again, you don't recognize them in the law even though the Constitutional Court said that this law that is currently in force deliberately silenced a group of people and thus denied access to the law which is in no way right and in some way that you should correct it, you refuse to do so by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84350	The apartment will be approved. Now it's my colleague Selak Rasdic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84351	I don't know if I should be looking for a break on behalf of the SDP club to help my colleague Voter or stay at the Bridge. The first thing I want to say is that I am truly disappointed that we have decided to unite the debate and that we have sent a very bad message to the Croatian public that we can, in a barrel, discuss exactly the most vulnerable and sensitive members of our society who deserve our special attention that should be one and a mirror of the development of democratic processes in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, despite the objections in the first reading, this remains a third-rate topic that will be discussed in one day, and then we will move on and we will put a clutch on what we should call an extremely serious process by reforming the social care system. Let's not lie, we all know what happened. Unfortunately, we had extremely tragic cases that sensitized the public and reminded her of the lack of a social care system. However, our answer to this was political, not professional. He can't in any way be called adequate. We hurried to make an ad hoc reform to make the public an impression, and we political points to do something about it, and in practice we will not change the key problems involved in social care, fostering and all the activities associated with them. In the first place, we didn't agree on basic concepts of what it is to help at all, to improve the quality of life. Which means that this is achieved through social care when we know that so many people in Croatia live at risk of poverty and that they are not available for social care. Not to get into individual problems such as decentralisation, which is not encouraged here, but abolished in any case, as the professional public has warned, we will not come up with the desired needs that are needed by the welfare system and other related activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84352	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. Now she will speak to her colleague, Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84353	Good afternoon. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front so we can think about this law one more time. So first and foremost, we shouldn't have to explain to them so extensively, and talk about this Social Welfare Act that we're not the state's social case. Croatia is the worst country in Europe according to the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion. Croatia is the third poorest country in the EU. The terrible statistics we really need to sober us up from those fairy tales we heard yesterday from the prime minister are the fact that the person in severe material deprivation is even 7.3%, that over 6.6% of people can't afford adequate heating in the coldest months, and at this point, colleagues and colleagues, when the heating might pick up. 7.9% cannot afford a meal that contains meat, chicken, fish or vegetarian equivalent every day. 51.7% cannot settle unexpected financial expenditure, etc. etc. This law solves it by saying Winston Churchill if you don't want to solve the problem of establishing a commission. So here, when we do not want to solve the problem obviously, new institutions are being established, meaning new institutions that promise better social care, but we see that none of it will be. Most importantly, the waist rated it as a negative grade. The law shows the tendency, colleagues and colleagues, the destruction of all possible institutions, which is quite convenient in the context of that debate on the demonstration of institutions that we had yesterday. So the trust in the profession is thrown, the mistrust of the profession is heightened, and this is meant to be solved by new institutions. The problem, of course, is also in the centralisation of the system and does not address the biggest problem of overburdening workers in social protection especially with administrative obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84354	Thank you. The apartment is approved. Now the request for a break will be explained by colleague Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84355	Thank you. Here's what I'm looking for is a break on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club so we can actually re-analyze the following arguments why this reform is not adequate and why it's not good at this time. First of all, I'm going to say something about the timing of the reform. So we're in a system that's being extra-tensed at this point because of the covid pandemic, and the second because of the fact that a large and significant part of the population lives in the post-trouble area, where they've been further existentially threatened because their homes have been torn down, destroyed, where social care centres have to cover more jobs than they normally do. So we have two crises overlapping. The centres play an extremely important role in this, and we, at that moment, are going drastically to change the system and in a way that will create them an additional administrative now burden and burden of adaptation at the moment when they must be concentrated on helping the population affected by these two crises. Secondly, we reiterate that since 2003 you have been raising two World Bank loans to reform the social care system, decentralisation of services in the community. Tens and tens of millions of euros from EU funds have been invested in this. So do we deserve to hear here what was the effects of these money and its implementation and why we are now so drastically changing direction from the one we have financed with all these loans and money from the EU. Can anyone answer that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84356	The apartment is approved. Let's move on. Comrade Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84357	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to point out once again the facts that are undeniable. That reforming the social care system is what we need, I think we'll all agree. And when we entered this process, we had a very high agreement of all stakeholders in the welfare system. Now that we have before us another reading of this package of laws we have the minimum consent of the stakeholders who are related to this issue. And we have to ask ourselves what went wrong and why all those 2400 remarks by very professional stakeholders that are related to this system was kind of ignored, it went over them. Very little has been adopted, and ultimately all those who should implement this reform are not satisfied with this reform. We have to ask ourselves what will happen to this at all and whether any of this will work out. Of course, it's not a dispute. We all know that we have over 400 thousand pensioners who have a pension of less than 2500 kuna. Today we read that we have 240 thousand blocked, needs are high, some increases in fees go. As long as that's enough, they probably won't, since the collection and energy and basic and these basic foods go up 20, 30, 40%. So this system is expected to be very much, and all those who should implement this reform are dissatisfied and that something is going to be solved in step 2, 3, 4, I don't think it's standing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84358	Thank you. The apartment is approved. Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84359	Thank you, well-respected president of HS, for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club. I'm going to explain this break to you a few things. The first thing, we're easily talking about reform and reform is really one thing, and we all know that even with this set of laws that we're talking about, I'm afraid it's not about reform, but again it's about something that, if we want to say that reform, then that little, modest r, I don't read it as a reform. Why are we going to change a law or make a new law? To make life easier for our users, not so much so that it would be on our parliamentary representatives' record that in one term we have passed so many laws or so many amendments and additions. First and foremost, we need to think about the users, and we need to think about those who will implement this law. And this law talks about form, and it doesn't talk about content. So we're introducing some new bodies, we're introducing an office, we're introducing a academy, we're having a center, then we've got a commission that's kind of a big enigma that's going to make sense of this commission, and then they're convincing us like in some of those jokes that it's going to be less of an official. You can't convince me that when you have four new bodies, four new bodies will be fewer officials than you have now. And what's the point, who's going to do the job? So this law has to say something about the work of those, so I'm talking only to what is the foundation and the Law on the work of those who have to do it, who are killing, who are really doing it in abnormal conditions. My people, we are a country with 3,880,000 inhabitants. How many social workers do we have in the first place? How many can I do these jobs in the first place? About it in these laws And we can't see a word through all this. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84360	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. Comrade Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84361	On behalf of the HDZ Club, I demand a break in order to reiterate the importance of this reform of the social system, especially with emphasis on the Social Care Act. It is directed primarily towards both professional workers and those who carry out field reform in direct work with our users. The number of employees is increasing, they are relieved of time and free of time for professional work because centralised only applies to administrative and legal affairs through the Croatian Institute for Social Work makes it easier and enables the uniformity of practice for the satisfaction of all our users on the ground. It does not stand for the fact that they are exempt from the local community, however, their professional work remains with users in the system. What also doesn't say that the law doesn't fit the present moment, oh, yes, of course. No law, no government has ever increased everything, almost all compensation for our users, through one law-making system. Social care is targeted and there is protection and care for those of our citizens who cannot take care of themselves on their own or because of their circumstances in which living and disability afford themselves to live. This law gives you a lot of answers. Do we need the academy to educate us professionals on quality and to perfect themselves through lifelong learning, yes. Do We Need Family Centres to Strengthen? families, I certainly do. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84362	The apartment is approved. And let's go to the end, Comrade Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84363	Your Honor, in front of the HNS Club, HSU and independent MPs, I'm looking for a break to say a different opinion. Namely, this system has been decentralised since the weekend, and we have what we have. Don't think that in social care someone didn't know about the number in Andrasevec. Don't think you don't know about illegal accommodations. Don't think that in social security, social care is because it's decentralised and needs to remain decentralised without sin and not have any influence on the current situation. The former minister had a similar set of laws in front of him in 2003. For political reasons, it was not going into reform and then it was known that something, that something was wrong and please, let's not confuse pension rights, it's a separate system that rests on payments.../incomprehensible/... we can moan over everything. The fact is that after the welfare system, the pension system to protect our citizens from poverty needs another strategy to fight poverty, as our neighbours of the Slovenians do, that this is not resolved by these laws. We can quote statistics, we can do whatever we want, but systems need to be upgraded. In 2009, this was what they wanted to do. So I was talking from this pay phone last year that it's about a puzzling system where people know everything, and they don't react, and the goal is what Anka says, protection of users, and not favoring any profession, the profession is involved in what she is and has a responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84364	Okay. Is anyone else picking up? If we don't, we're gonna take a little break by 10 and 15, and then we're gonna move on. It's 10.05. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 10:15 A.M.]] I will now again call on the proposal's representative, respected labour minister, pension system, family and social policy, Josip Aladrovic, to give an additional explanation of those laws. Please just hold the tiles until your colleagues and colleagues write down and hold the balance a little bit, a little bit to each other. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84366	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, we have before us a reform package of 7 laws, which is part of a full reform of the social care system that will result in a more transparent, efficient and professional system. The system that will serve our users, which will strengthen the capacity of the system, as well as the experts working in it with new employment, continuous education and long-term standardisation of services. The users of this system's services are the most vulnerable part of, or most vulnerable group of our society, which in particular in the past 2 challenging years for which the government has done everything to ensure the necessary protection and necessary social services, while continuing the economic activities necessary for the functioning of the entire society. The crises have a negative impact on social relations most often felt by just the most vulnerable groups of society such as our older citizens, socially endangered, poor as well as persons in conflicting family relations. It is therefore our responsibility to create better public policies for a fairer society, a solid Croatia, and to introduce changes where we see that they are necessary, and the welfare system, or social security system, is certainly one of our priorities. A package of 7 laws that is currently in the second reading, which is in front of you includes the final proposal for a new Social Care Act, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Act and a set of 5 laws defining the work of regulated professions. As we have pointed out several times in the Croatian Parliament, the reform package is part of the action plan resulting from the cooperation of the Ministry of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy with members of the National Council for Social Policy Development, which is composed of all relevant participants from other ministries and government offices, representatives of municipalities, cities, counties, associations of civil society, academic community, representatives of professional chambers, representatives of trade unions or employees working in social care systems, associations representing persons with disabilities working to protect and promote children's rights as well as fosterers and representatives of pensioners' associations. It is evident that all of these legislative proposals included a wide range of experts from all systems from their perspectives each day, pointing to the necessary changes, and dialogue with all stakeholders did not stop after either 2 or 2 readings of these laws in the Croatian Parliament. Since the previous debate at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament in November last year, we have recognised and respected a whole series of requirements that we have included in the final draft laws. More important newspapers include increasing the amount of a disabled person to 1,750 kuna, with the aim of more fair insurance of material rights or personal disability, and amended provisions related to the continuation of the business of family homes which we have removed the fear of continuing the business of this form of accommodation. The final proposals for the law are in line with the proposals and remarks adopted in the debate before the working bodies and in the debate at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and have been further nomotechnically and linguistically improved. When we talk about the final proposal of the Social Care Act, we must point out that the social care system in Croatia is one of the most complex systems through which users are provided social services and benefits. The system shall carry out processes or procedures of family legal protection and other procedures for the protection of socially sensitive groups. They are currently carried out through 82 social care centres, which have 56 branches, through a special care centre, through 68 homes and centres for providing services in the community that also have 18 branches and also carry out through 45 decentralised homes for elderly and severely ill persons, 1261 providers of services of other founders of which 406 have concluded contracts with the Ministry of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy and 2890 foster families. When all of this is summed up, it is 4346 natural or legal persons participating in the social care system itself. As I have previously pointed out, frequent amendments to the law have led to changes in priorities among other things. What is the objective, which is the result of these frequent changes, are definitely the fragmentation of the system, a large number of public authorities that conduct social care centres, then a lack of professional staff and professional support, unequal treatment, the inadequacy of compensation in the system itself, leading to a high risk of poverty especially in children, elderly persons, persons with disabilities. Then it also leads to regional imbalances in the very accessibility of individual services. The Ministry as a body of the state administration also has one executive, control and development function. The task force also acted, the bill-making working group was also made up by all those representatives I had previously listed who had also acted through the National Council for Social Policy Development. When we talk about the final bill, what we want to achieve is the improved organisation and coordination of social care systems, the establishment of the Croatian Institute for Social Labour, the Academy of Social Care and the Family Centre. Then organisational and structural changes, as well as the discharge and reduction of public powers, as well as the strengthening of social care centres and future Croatian Social Labour Institute. In addition, what it wants to achieve is the development and availability of family centres as independent institutions with the aim of carrying out activities and programmes aimed at preventive, treatment and development activities for children, youth and family, the dissemination and availability of services at local community level through the development of community services centres, continuous lifelong education of professionals with the aim of equating treatment and reducing the risk of professional errors, improving the adequateness of the use of rights in order to reduce the risk of poverty and social exclusion, then improving the target and impact on the quality of life of persons with disabilities, and increasing the fees that are directed at persons with disabilities. What we ultimately want to achieve is also better protection of the rights of users through the civil oversight, i.e. the commission we have formed, as well as strengthening the capacity of family centres and other social service providers, and using, among other things, the state budget as a source of funds and the EU funds available to us. The Croatian Institute for Social Labour as a public institution established by this Law will perform tasks in central, regional building units, instead of current centres for social care. The work of the Institute, i.e. the establishment of the Institute, will achieve the strengthening and improvement of professional work, standardisation and equalisation of professional behaviour, the improvement of measures of family and social protection, the follow-up and evaluation of measures and activities aimed at equating practices, as well as the monitoring of the impact of all interventions in the social care system, and carried out by the Institute. It is also established, and the Academy of Social Care as a public institution for the purpose of organising permanent professional training of professionals in the social care system. The establishment of a family centre as an independent institution with the aim of separating the control and preventive treatment roles of current centres for social care, as well as strengthening family services at local community level. Strengthening the role of the family centre will strengthen parental competences, reduce family risks and reduce the need for intervention of social care centres. The final draft law reduces the public authority of today's social care centres and is relieved of jobs that are not in the best relationship with the social care system. Centres for the provision of services in the community through the development and availability of social services at local community level will take over part of the social care centre's jobs, such as psychosocial support services, intensive professional assistance and supervision measures and specific obligations. For non-institutional services, a social manual is introduced, which will allow faster provision of services for users, reducing waiting for services to start, strengthening professional work and administrative redundancies for professional workers. It is also planned to reduce competences and in relation to compensation for assistance and care, personal disability and parental status through cooperation with other bodies in order to ensure assumptions for the acquisition of those powers. In order to prevent the risk of poverty, we will also improve the quality of the bill that increases the personal disability, increase the guaranteed minimum fee, and thus also work to prevent poverty and social exclusion by also increasing supplies for users, as well as benefits for fosterers. When we talk about a guaranteed minimum fee, the height is determined as a percentage of the base by which the Government of the Republic of Croatia governs and currently stands at 800 kuna. By entering into force of this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is scheduled to make a decision on the height of the base of 1,000, i.e. at the level of the guaranteed minimum fee of 1000 kuna. In order to reduce the risk of poverty, it is also envisaged to coordinate the guaranteed minimum remuneration with the needs of the most sensitive groups through the application of an equivalent scale, i.e. an increase in personal factors. The proposal for a law is, the proposal for this law has increased and the maximum amount of minimum household benefits guaranteed from 100 to 150% of the gross minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia. If the beneficiary of the right to a guaranteed minimum fee is employed for a continuous duration of at least 6 months, the right shall not cease but shall be reduced by 50% in the first 3 months of work. Also, having a personal vehicle is no longer an obstacle to the recognition of the right to a guaranteed minimum fee if the value of the vehicle does not exceed 40 bases or 20 thousand kuna, respectively. More detailed rules are also laid down for the exercise of the right to guaranteed minimum compensation, the obligation of persons with disabilities, as well as the active inclusion of the Employment Service to improve cross-resorship cooperation between the social care system and the employment system. When we talk about compensation for housing costs, then it is redefined in a way that connects to the heating costs fee in one fee. It is recognised to be at least 30% of the amount of the guaranteed minimum fee which is recognised to a single person, i.e. the household. The compensation shall cover all sources and modes of heating other than electricity which will continue to be offset from the compensation for the threatened energy purchaser, thereby reducing the administrative burden, as well as the risk of poverty, and ensuring the same level of protection for all users of the guaranteed minimum fee. Compensation for personal needs, i.e. allowance, therefore increases are planned for children of the primary school age of adults for 250 kuna, and for high school students and younger minors of 350 kuna. When we talk about fees for people with disabilities, the amount of personal disability is increased from the current 1500 to 1750 kuna with the abolition of income and property censorship which has so far been one of the conditions for the exercise of this right, and this right is granted to both persons in the investigative prison and in the maintenance of prison sentences. The conditions for the recognition of the right to a personal disability related to income are uniform, which contributes to preventing discrimination against persons with disabilities. An extended circle of users of the right to compensation for assistance and care for persons who have established a fourth degree of damage to functional abilities. It also extends the circle of persons who can recognise the right to the status of carers, which encourages the stay of a child with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities in their own home and prevents their institutionalisation. For a child with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities due to a health condition that cannot be included in programmes and services in the community, parents and carers, a higher amount of compensation of 900 % of the basic, i.e. 4 and a half thousand kuna, is allowed. When we talk about social services, new social services such as comprehensive evaluation and planning of previous expert evaluation, social mentorship services for long-term unemployed workers are introduced, as well as other socially sensitive groups with the aim of labour activation and social integration, as well as psychosocial treatment services to prevent domestic violence. Through the Commission and civil surveillance, we are confident that we will be able to further open the system of users and that in this way all users of the system as well as other citizens of the Republic of Croatia will have a stronger, clearer and deeper insight into everything that is happening in the social care system. When we talk about the additional funds needed for 2022, a little more than 400 million kuna will be allocated in 2022 and a little more than 700 million kuna in 2023. Given the increase in compensation, given the reorganisation of the system, we believe that these funds are necessary and that the Croatian government has proposed these laws for reference and insurance. When we talk about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Act, we must stress that in early 2019 a new Household Act aimed at improving foster care in the Republic of Croatia through an increase in the number of foster parents for children and fosterers for children who at that time were, therefore, whose number was in decline at that time. And we need to be aware that specialized foster care didn't come to life the way we expected it. In the same fee, in the relaxation of the terms of foster care, so we will invest more than 86 million kunas at the level of the year. We must stress that over a longer period of supply and compensation for, therefore, fosterers as well as children have not been audited. The supplies will now be revised in a way that will increase between 20 and 42% depending on the category they receive as well as the fees that will increase to 60%, so between 15 and 60%, because we think that in this way we are taking an additional step in popularising foster care and we are taking an additional step in making a greater number of people interested in foster care, which is extremely important in terms of deinstitutionalisation of child care. The regulated professions in the welfare system that we want to regulate through these five laws in fact their work, regulate their way of working. So it's about social workers, psychologists, social educators, educational rehabilitators, psychotherapists, and advisory therapists. The laws that lie before you are therefore five laws that regulate these professions, and the final proposals of the law are in line with the proposals and remarks adopted in the debate before the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and in the debate that followed it at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament itself. In the final proposals for the law, certain nomotechnical differences have arisen in relation to previous drafts of the law, the provision on the inability to carry out the activities of persons who are legally sanctioned for domestic violence with the aim of supporting the fight against violence in all its forms, and in particular taking into account the specificity of the social status of these professions. The aim is to simplify the provisions of five laws, while respecting the specificity of each profession and simplifying access to professions, to prevent the introduction of unjustified restrictive working conditions in a regulated profession. And finally let me conclude, so this law, this package of 7 laws, is just the first step to the long-term improvement of the system that needs to be more transparent, more quality, more professional for all the users in it. In addition to these 7 laws, we have adopted three national plans earlier, at the National Council for Social Policy Development, we have adopted an action plan to improve the social care system with certain steps towards a better system, we have set out earlier and through capacity building through employment and through more quality care for all those users in the system. We are sure that this is an additional step forward, aware of all the challenges ahead of us, and therefore I am sure that in this way we will make the system of social care better, better, more meaningful both in the end and from the perspective of the employees and from the perspective of the users. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84367	Thank you, Minister. Let's go with the replicas. We have 39 replicas. The first is counterpart Selak-Raspadić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84368	Dear Minister, here's where this united debate has led us. Fifteen minutes you talked about the welfare system, a minute and a half left for your foster parents and a minute for your regulated professions. Then look into the eyes of a foster parent in Croatia and say that he is important to this government. I'm going to ask you something very specific. Parents of children with physical impairment who are entitled to a personal disability are greatly confused by this bill. In fact, although you determine that they are entitled to these 1750 kunas in Article 58(1), you extend those entitled to compensation for assistance and care and those who have a fourth degree of damage. Does this mean that a commission will decide between persons who have a fourth degree of disability, which is only 600 kuna for help and care, or maybe I hope that the person with 4 degree of damage will have the right to both. If that's not the case, please remove the person from the 4 degree body damage. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84369	Thank you, thank you very much. I haven't seen much time. Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84370	I'd like to thank the honourable MPs, so thank you for asking. As far as the first part of the question is concerned, I think that through the Household Law, through the increase in fees and supplies, we have shown what we think and what our position as legislator of this law is and as Government of the Republic of Croatia to the foster parents so that he would not really spend any further words there. As regards these concrete remarks to the law, Article 58, if I am not mistaken, therefore more right, the right that someone who is 4 in this case will exercise the right to a personal disability. So that's where we've already talked to representatives from the HDZ Club, the Ombudsman for people with disabilities we've been communicating with, and this part of the article will be changed later.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84371	Comrade Bedekovic, come in. I'm sorry, I'm in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84372	Article 238, demeaning parliamentary deputies, I asked you something else. You've got a mess inside the law. In Article 58, you also say that it applies to individuals with a degree of physical impairment. If they have the exclusive right to a higher fee, the personal disability then admit the error and remove this Article 58(1), otherwise people will come into a very unpredictable position.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84373	My colleagues Selak Rasudiæ receive a warning and I invite everyone not to do this, we have 39 replicas that is 78 minutes, do not let others speak as well. Let's move on, colleague Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84374	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, this reform package of laws should also enable reform of the social care system and we will all agree that it is one of the most complex systems in Croatian society with more than half a million users and somewhere more than 3,500 providers of various social services. And you said it yourself, and I agree with you that every reform is a long-term process that doesn't go overnight and assumes years, and these laws are the basis for these processes, but certainly every reform process requires and financial resources. For the implementation of reform processes based on these laws in 2022, a billion and 100,000 kuna were provided, in 2023 billion and 200,000 kuna, and it is expected that these funds would enable these reform processes to be encouraged, as can be seen through the raising of the minimum remuneration guaranteed and through the raising of their personal disability but also the same. and abolishing property and censorship for the exercise of rights. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84375	Please respond, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84376	I'd like to thank the honourable MPs for your question. Thus, the compensation system is extremely important in the welfare system and from this context we have decided to increase the amount of 200 kuna for the guaranteed minimum fee, i.e. on the basis of the guaranteed minimum fee. Personal disability will also be increased. I stress that this is the second increase in the past, at the time of the government of Andrej Plenkovic, so we have one continuity of the increase and I am sure we will keep that continuity in the future. From the context of compensation, it is not insignificant or insignificant that it is significant that in the exercise of the right to a personal disability of censorship which has long been the subject of a debate in the circles of persons with disabilities but also of the whole of our society because they refer to persons with disabilities in this bill, there is no final draft law, this will certainly increase the adequateness of compensation throughout the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84377	Thank you. Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84378	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, first of all, your statement about what you said earlier that from the first reading to this second reading you have made certain changes is absolutely far from the truth because you have not accepted any opposition proposal. So that absolutely doesn't stand. But second basic question, why are we sitting here and what are we pretending to be here and what are we acting like? We all know that in the system especially care for older people is missing an extremely large amount of beds, places in homes for older people are waiting for 5, 10 years some unfortunately never welcome them. The private founders of nursing homes are viewed through their fingers to somehow compensate for that number of beds and then we're all terrified when an Andrasevec happens because it's of course looked through their fingers and these poor old men who are no longer gone to the world in one terrible fiery hell. So you're also aware as a minister that the legal provisions are not respected Then why the law? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84379	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84380	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. So when we talk about the capacity itself, we are aware of everyone in society that increasing capacity is absolutely necessary when we talk about caring for older people, first of all and homes for the elderly you mention. What we, as the legislator of the law, or the competent ministry, are doing and must do, we will continue to do. This is primarily the control of such service providers. The illustrations for 2020 carried out 380, a total of 380 administrative and inspection controls. In 2021, more than, almost 1,300 were carried out, so we have an increase of 4 or almost 5 times administrative and inspection controls precisely in the sense that any service providers or all those service providers who are either not adequate or providing them illegally as in some cases were able to activate and remove them from the welfare system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84381	Thank you. My colleagues, Grba Bujević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84382	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, I have a question for you. In fact, social workers point out that social welfare centres are burdened with administrative work that we can be honest with and don't really belong there. This law is expected to redistribute some of these administrative jobs to other systems where they would, by logic, belong. Is there really something going to be done with this law on this matter, to what extent and if not when it is predicted?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84383	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84384	Dear MPs, I thank you for asking. As far as the public authorities themselves are concerned, to which is an extremely wide range of those actors who have warned about the height, or the amount of public authority, one part of those public powers that have been particularly linked to traffic, we have therefore removed with the Ministry of Education. What was the subject of the debate was the most personal disability, the allowance for other people's assistance and care and unemployment benefits. This fee during unemployment was allocated to the Croatian Employment Service because we believe it belongs more to this system, so labour activation than to the social care system itself. As far as these other fees are concerned, that's where we announced the talks and the arrangements with the other representatives. They represent an extremely large volume at the moment and it is not possible to transfer them to another system once, but whether they should be in this system we can talk about in future time. So, a certain reduction of public authority yes, but we are aware that we must take further steps in future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84385	Thank you. Comrade Nemet, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84386	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister. This Proposal for a Law on Social Care provides for new powers and jobs for counties in particular in a section that meets the requirements of providing social services and control. We believe that it will contribute to improving the quality and care of our users and legal provision of social services themselves. But we point out that it is necessary to stop the practice of granting powers without providing financial resources. Ministers, have you foreseen the funds that you will decentralise for this law at the level of the county and what are these amounts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84387	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84388	I thank you for your question. So, as far as the business itself is concerned, which will now be assigned to the units of local and regional self-government, for example, to the counties, first and foremost, we are talking about control and control jobs. This is what makes quality surveillance, which is what units on the ground can do best because they know best where certain social services are located, and I stress social services here. That job has been done by the county so far. We have only increased the intensity of this work in order to have a better quality and to avoid exactly some of the cases that Dretar has also apostrophysed so that illegal homes do not occur, to reduce the possibility of overnumber and all other details that occur in such homes and endanger life or health. In view of this, we therefore believe that the county will be more adequate in cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84389	Comrade Cellic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84390	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, the consequences of social reform were the positive or the negative most people who would make such a law, and the implications related to the amendment of the Social Care Act for this and next year are billions and 100 million kunas. I'd quote Mila Kekin isn't all so gray. For the first time in the sixth year of my term, I've heard a commendation from the D.A.'s Office for people with disabilities. So it's still much, much more important, so when we hear from an office like that when we hear from the foster home, from the Family Homes Association, a certain commendation. These criticisms that come from regulated professions are understandable on the one hand, and I hope that it will not lead to them not being able to function as a Czech organisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84391	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84392	Thank you. As far as this other part of the question is concerned, I am sure that no legal amendment will lead to the impossible functioning of the Czech organizations. However, we want to strengthen these organisations, but on the other hand introduce very clear rules in their business itself, in their action. As for the first part of your finding, that is, what you have found is that we have really included a wide part of the public, a wide part of the players operating in the welfare system. With the vast majority, we have brought our thoughts into line on the issue, on many issues of the law itself. Of course, there is always one part of those with whom we simply could not fit into the law. But it is important that the whole as such takes a strong step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84393	Now it's time for my colleague Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84394	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, regarding the conditions for the recognition of the right to parent status, the Trustee. In the first reading, this was Article 66(4) and paragraph 3 above that if a person with disabilities is not a beneficiary of a half-day stay service for more than three days a week, and in one parent family more than 4 days a week or a full-day stay service under this law but it is now omitted in this second reading in the final proposal. So it's not a matter of half-day stay at all, it's just a whole day's stay. Why do I ask that? Namely, I was in Čakovec two days ago in our daily stay in Caritasova for children with special needs and most severe damages and there my employees tell me that they lost several users because their parents took this parent status and that they can no longer use this service of half-day stay, but that they are looking forward now to this new law because they will be able to do so. However, we can see that the issue of half-day stay has been dropped. So, will parent status be able to use a half-day stay service? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84395	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84396	I thank you for asking. I must admit that this part about including what I can confirm is that they are involved, that they exercise the right if they are involved in the right to a half-day stay. But I am sure that in this final proposal, if something has been dropped or if there have been some passing or perhaps misunderstandings as in some articles that we discussed earlier, if that exists we will definitely correct. We have shown by law how important it is to us, so how much people with disabilities and all vulnerable groups are that we understand each other in these laws, and if there is a certain discharge, I'm sure we can make it right. But what they can confirm, so those who exercise the right to parent status are involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84397	Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84398	I thank the president of HS. The Honorable Ministers without cheerleading uniform law that has experienced six or seven amendments is fine to make a new law, so you have my commendation not now entering here into the content of that law. But the goal is certainly to satisfy this law and to satisfy all those who are deficient and powerless and it is extremely difficult and responsible. I hope, indeed, that this law will answer this question on this very track and make the people who are in need, who are powerless, who really need the need for this state. My question to you Minister, does social care have teamed services that can meet or respond to the challenge and make this law really the way you planned it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84399	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84400	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. So, as far as this is concerned, we are constantly and constantly strengthening the entire system's human resources. Over the past year, we have employed more than 300 people in the social care system itself, and that says enough how much we want to strengthen our capacities, but on the other hand, how aware we are that a certain level of capacity at individual locations or places is missing. As for the capacitation of all those in charge and who will be in charge of the implementation of all parts of the law, we can absolutely confirm that we are strong enough here to make such changes, but what we expect, of course, is the support of all those who need to make changes. The changes are positive and we are sure that for this reason we will have their support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84401	Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84402	Dear Minister. In your presentation, you said this package of laws would result in a more transparent, more efficient and professional social care system, but for greater transparency there is no need for centralised, for more efficiency there is no need for centralised as well as for a more professional approach. System centralisation is definitely the biggest problem, and it will be even bigger if it intends to unify and access. In fact, you know that there are significant differences in Croatia not only in the material situation of the population but also mentality, and I hope you realize that you cannot have the same approach in Dubrovnik County and Lika-Senj County. In Dubrovnik County, you need quite different services than you need in Lika-Senjska, in Dubrovnik, you may need a marriage counseling center, perhaps help addicts while in Lika-Senjska you need to pay attention primarily to those who have no money How do you plan to do that? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84403	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84404	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. So, first of all, I'd separate the equalization of behaviour in the centers themselves from the uniform approach. The approach depends on the local community, depending on the needs found somewhere on the ground, but the uniform treatment does not depend on it, uniform treatment must result in better quality work and more uniform work in individual cases, in the same cases throughout the Republic of Croatia. So that's the idea, you say centralised, we say a uniform approach or even treatment. What is particularly important here, and that is, I will agree, of course, with the conclusion I said earlier that the system after this reform is implemented will be both more transparent and efficient. Transparency is increasing all the time, and I'm sure this part of efficiency will also be very much. Strongly expressed after the implementation of the reform. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84405	Comrade Blažević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84406	Thank you very much, President. Dear Minister. I welcome the legislative changes that are certainly necessary in the welfare system and in favour of the users, and you yourself said that this is the first step in improving the system. We're all here and aware of a small number of foster parents, in my county, for example. has a very low number of foster parents both in the posljska and in the Pakra center and does not meet all needs. I believe that the increase in compensation for the work of fosterers and supplies will work in a stimulating way, as well as the relaxed conditions for performing specialised foster care. These legal changes in a marketing or campaign package that is increasingly visible can increase the number of foster parents. I wonder if we can actually step up the marketing campaign, lower it perhaps to a regional and local level so that potential foster parents can make it easier for children or adults to decide on foster care? And I wonder if you have any information on the number of foster parents in Croatia today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84407	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84408	I thank you for asking. So as for the Household Law or access to foster care, we are aware that this number is constantly decreasing, so we have one trend in the decline of the number of foster parents. Two or three of the most significant elements we have identified here are primarily supplies and fees that have not been adjusted a significant part of the time, and therefore certainly a particular interest falls and there is an exit from the foster home. On the other hand, we have relaxed the conditions which, in our opinion, should not be so strict as to allow foster care to be provided. And what of course we missed maybe in this time, but in the coming time we will try to promote it more strongly through various campaigns and involving local communities and local centres in these processes themselves. We think that combination, those three elements that I'm now The number will result in an increase in the number of foster parents. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84409	Thank you very much. My colleague, Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84410	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Minister. There was one topic that was quite current and in the debate when the first reading of the law went on, and now between the first and second readings it was somehow that there were some harmonisations. What is it I want to ask you about? It's family homes. Therefore, in the transitional and final provisions in Art. In 322, it is stated that families in such an organisational structure as they can do by 1 January 2027 and that they are obliged to comply with the provisions of this Act. The problem of organisational coordination was a problem that was being opened in public space, and this has been discussed a lot. You've used about a couple of, like, ten seconds to explain this 20 minutes where it's said that it's settled now. I'm curious that in this minute you might say a little bit more clearly how it's settled because in those five years, it's probably going to change the law at least once or twice, so let's see those who go into that new change in organisational structures, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] They'll be on time for that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84411	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84412	Thank you for asking the honourable MPs. So when we talk about family homes, among other things, I also pointed out, in the introduction of the law, between the two readings, except in the parliamentary debate, we also had continuous conversations with other stakeholders, with stakeholders who make up that part of the family homes we talked about in a context in which they were better qualityd. We have come to agree on the views of all those who provide services that it is not necessary to define criteria as we did for the first time in family or private homes and that new categories of homes will be introduced which will provide and accommodation services for persons up to.../incomprehensible/... i.e. for accommodation up to 20 persons, as well as other alternative opportunities to create such services, which means that we will actually pass through a range of services. This has been agreed by all those who currently provide family services And we're sure that this is how we've found a good enough solution. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84413	Comrade Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84414	Thank you, Honorable President of HS, dear Minister Aladrovic. I will say that social solidarity and social security are certainly a prerequisite for a healthy development of modern society and what I welcome and commend is that this reform, a full reform of the social system, is based on that. When we look at all these 7 laws and look at it from the user's perspective, which brings it to the user, then we see that it brings bigger fees, i.e. guaranteed minimum fees, meaning 800 to 1000 kuna, but when we look at it at the level of a four-member household, then it's an increase of 1600 to 2800 kuna, when we look at it at the level of a three-member household of single parents and two children, then it's an increase of 1700 to 3000 kuna. I think it's very important to say, and I'm telling you Please, dear Minister, a bit of a broader perspective. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] this reform of the social system. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84415	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84416	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. So as for the very breadth of the reform, we've pointed out two ways in general, so one direction that applies to employees and the system as such, so on the reorganisation of the entire system, and we find it extremely important to provide better quality services. The second part that is focused on users, so to speak, is the part that relates to fees and which we have decided much wider, much, that we have decided to correct more. It's all part of it again, and we could hear it in the opening arguments of the request for a break, it's all part of the social security system. We as Government have definitely decided to prioritize social security as such, which through a part of the salary, or one relating to employment, which through part of the system relating to the pension system and the welfare system will do so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84417	Here you go. Now it's my fellow Mlinaric's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84418	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, although the entire package of laws has been well-formed and has passed the first reading, part of the Household Act is challenging the existence of foster care as a social service before the application itself. In fact, the Law prescribes the age of foster parents up to 60 years, although the working life of the Labour Act increases to 65 and 67, respectively. A large number of foster parents would spend five years in suspense of exercising pension rights on any basis. Please make a comment on this illogicality in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84419	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84420	Thank you, Mr. Representative. So as far as the age itself is concerned for foster parents, in law it is normable up to 65 years, so it is a legal provision that is currently in the bill itself. What is particularly important here to recognise, therefore, that there is, that this household service as a social service also exists, so that, in order to provide quality care, if we want to provide quality care, then we must withdraw some correlation between the labour market as such and the provision of foster care and therefore, that limit set at 65 years must also be respected and the criteria for this service to be provided for 24 hours, that there must be a certain level of possibility of providing that service by the fosterers and therefore are practically on the labour market and in context the formation of the foster care of the year remain equal. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84421	Comrade Deur, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84422	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. Here's for sure in this bill of law, here's another reading, first of all, I want to congratulate you on your courage, first of all, after 20 years of being able to run a Social Care Act that is certainly one of the most sensitive social communities in our country and always social care is one topic where there is no end. The social improvement is always something that is fundamental. Using, the people who use it is something that we all need to be aware of on this subject. We have also in this assembly of many who have dealt with this, over the past 20 years, unfortunately that responsibility, someone had responsibility, but also privilege, but had no courage. On the other hand, we have one group that might want it, and it doesn't understand it, so on behalf of it and just fostering it that's very sensitive, I want to point out that it's one whole that gives the future and a good perspective to It can always do something better. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84423	Comrade Sablar Dračevac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84424	Thank you, Mr. President. Ministers with co-workers, so will you resign if this reform is not passed over the knee, it is not effective and functional and how could you fail to reach a consensus with the profession and the academic community and how do you plan to implement the reform because you can expect resistance in the system? Minister, is this in line with the development strategy of the Republic of Croatia? A giant mastodon is created in which I assume that all responsibility will be on the one who leads, or in the event of any tragedy, the one who heads the office will resign? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84425	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84426	Dear MPs, I thank you for asking. So we're talking about two perspectives here. Perspectives of users and the perspective of employees. As far as the resignations are concerned, and this request of yours is not our focus. So neither someone who will run the office nor I are in the focus of this law but are in our focus to be more quality care towards users and to be more quality care or to be a better service of the whole system. As regards compliance with the Constitution, it exists absolutely, as regards the consensus, once again, that these are proposals discussed at the National Council for the Development of Social Policy, that these are proposals that have entered the Social Care System Action Plan, that these are proposals that are in one act against which none of the stakeholders I have listed have voted before, and we believe that there is a level of support there. That there are isolated opinions, that there are different visions of the system, that makes sense to us in the end. It also opens up space for further discussions on all the issues in this [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The system. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84427	Comrade Ivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84428	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, one of the major changes in this entire set of laws is family homes. We know that this area has been very messy so far. This law tries to arrange it in a way that these people who find themselves in those homes get what they end up paying for. This five-year-old adjustment makes sense. But what I want to ask you is, do you think that, by improving the conditions, a lot of controversy has caused, of course, the public, these changes will not reduce the number of users but, in fact, we will create new preconditions that more people show interest in this form of social care.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84429	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84430	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. So, when we talk about family homes, I have already pointed out in response that we have respected certain proposals and certain initiatives of all those who provide services for such accommodation. We have divided or agreed that through the very special criteria we will work out what all or what conditions must satisfy those who have up to 20 or more of 20 users. We are sure that through such an additional way of developing the type of services that will be provided in family homes, or in these new forms of accommodation, it will also lead to an increase in total capacity because, in the end, as an interesting enterprise, it will also act in the context of the development of entrepreneurship, and thus care services. We are aware that we need to increase capacity. This is one of the ways that we plan to spend in future time and this way open the door for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84431	Comrade Simunic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84432	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, we all know that social services cannot and will not function well without the quality and good mutual cooperation of all stakeholders. I believe that the deal with the profession should have been the starting point and the basis of the joint creation of the necessary amendments to such an important law. The only small concession you have made under public pressure concerns family homes. After all, it was irresponsible to argue that family homes had failed to fulfill their function, and they did not give any relevant evidence to the public all the time. Please explain the difference in quality between the family home in its current form and this new home proposal to 20 users, a significant difference. On the other hand, there are no legal developments in public homes. Citizens, some civil society organisations, as well as the Ombudsman's report consider priority problems to be the non-transparentity of business financing and, above all, public housing. There are often remarks on the basis of nepotism and corruption in the reception process. When and how do you plan to handle this? Whether or not the unique user register is known Who are waiting for accommodations in the home? [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84433	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84434	Dear MPs, I thank you for this question. As far as family homes and these little homes are concerned, so-called. So where there is going to be a difference is in the criteria or rules that will define which standards or standards of provision of accommodation must have current family homes in relation to these future homes and there we must raise the standard because that is simply what is expected of us on behalf of the users. As for transparency, so we started a project that makes sense and it will be if I don't cheat by the middle of this year, which makes sense for the transparency of the public waiting list. So, waiting lists in decentralised homes and all those service providers that have contracts with the Ministry will have to be public, they will have to be available and any behavior that is not in line with this, the type of skipping list will simply be sanctioned and we have very clearly determined here, this transparency is something we don't have to be about, I'm sure and agreeing but we all think.../incomprehensible/... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84435	Comrade Dreven Buddinski, please. She's gone. I see, I see. Then lose your right to the replica. Comrade Raukar-Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84436	I would like to thank Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I would repeat the question from the first reading, so against the proposal of this kind, such reforms have raised 5 chambers from the social care system. They raised their voice, and the professors of law school picked it up. Countless remarks and dissatisfaction were also expressed by numerous user associations, so our fellow citizens, persons with disabilities or carers. So both the profession and the academic community and the users said they didn't agree with this kind of proposed reform. The last appeal was sent a few days ago by the Chamber of Social Workers and the Association of Social Workers, directly to the prime minister, where they say they are not trying to solve any burning problems that threaten the collapse of the welfare system. They're all against it. I'm asking you next, can you explain to the public why you ignored all those opinions and how [[Intruder: Thank you.]] You mean to implement the reform without the support of those who... [[Thank you. Time.]] Have fun. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84437	Time, Comrade Raukar. It's been a long time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84438	Dear MPs, thank you. I thank you for asking, given that the same thing from the first reading, I suppose I don't remember, but I suppose the answer will be very similar. So when we talk about actors, we talk about the National Council for the Development of Social Policy, when we talk about documents, that is, the arrangements of this system and what we want to achieve and how, again, we talk about everything that is stated in the action plan. All those who subsequently voiced strong opposition to this reform proposal were then either for or abstentions. This tells you first of all, not o, I will say, in certain professional views, but personal attitudes that may have found their causes in something else, and I cannot agree with you that they are all against because we have very positive comments that may be less visible to the public, but extremely positive comments on certain parts of the law and on the whole reform and from civil society associations and from individual professional associations and from all those who participate in this system, that we will all be satisfied with the non- We expected neither at first, however, we are still sure that this time [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's a good trip. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84439	My colleague Pocrnic-Radosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84440	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, the existing Household Act has been in force for 3 years and it has aimed to increase both the number of fosterers and the number of householders, however, the same has not happened, even the number of existing foster parents, as well as the inflow of new foster parents. At the same time, the needs for foster care are growing, and we are aware that homes are being re-contracted, and thus by increasing the activity in the field of social care workers, which is expected by implementing these laws, this number will certainly increase. I also have a feeling that in public, the concept of foster care is not sufficiently recognized, often changes, interferes with the concept of adoption, which is a very different category, so do you think that the Ministry needs to step up the media campaign and the activity of the social care centre just to bring the subject of foster care and the opportunities it offers closer to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84441	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84442	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you for asking. I've already partially answered this, a similar question, but I'll do it again. So, we think that foster care is particularly important, that increasing the number of foster parents is one of the priorities of all these legal changes and we think that we can do it through 3 ways, so one is relaxing the conditions for doing this job, the second is to increase the fees and supplies from the perspective of children or groups who are fostered and from the perspective of the foster parents and the third is, of course, media and any other campaign that goes towards the popularity of foster care. All three of these elements, two of us have been regulated by law, the third one will be like some continuation of the ministry's work after the law has been passed, and we're sure we'll stop this negative trend. What is a fact is that we are also working on adoptions, that is, we have formed a special commission within the Ministry that speeds up procedures and we are sure that we will also have a significant step in this medium and long period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84443	Thank you. Comrade Vlasic Iljkić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84444	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, your social care as a portfolio in the Ministry is indeed imposed and you do not care about nearly 600,000 users who are connected to the social care system, and you can see that. You do not have the will to listen to the profession even though you have a prime minister who daily says that we listen to the profession, although in the second resort, in the health resort. So obviously we have double standards when we have to listen to the profession and when we don't. You are centralizing the system, moving away and dehumanising the system for users, and you are depriving and depriving the local community because the new Institute in Zagreb is taking over all the property, belongings and equipment of all the centers and branches, meaning the property of all the properties that are historically belonging to local communities. How do you comment? You're talking about the National Council that what's with you, but that National Council is not an implementing body and how you're actually going to implement that reform alone. against all those who really carry out that reform? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84445	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84446	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. I'm not sure how the property owners and all the other welfare centers of the local community are, but okay, maybe we don't agree on the fundamental property issue. As far as reform is concerned, as far as the National Council is concerned, that part was related to the replica. We emphasized it, ultimately in his rules on the work of the National Council it was stressed that it was the advisory body of the Government. If it is the government's advisory body, we consider it to be an advisory body and in the context of the development of social policies, we believe that inclusion of the profession and all actors is necessary. That is why we have set up a national council, therefore this national council that has in, both in the short and in the medium and long term, at the end and the task and purpose of existence in improving the system. And we will certainly continue this dialogue at the national council level, and we are sure that this, as you say, dehumanize or refuse any dehumanization. this system. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84447	Comrade Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84448	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers of Social System Reform was very much needed, not implemented for years, in 2003 there were some announcements, so in 2009, we who have long worked in the system are witnesses. Now we have a reform in front of us. Minister, they're not professional workers against this reform, I have a lot of confidence in the profession. It's a dangerous thing to say that it won't work because they don't agree with it, it's disagreed with by professional workers. They are headed by the academic community of former SDP officials who have had quite an opportunity to show that they want to reform but have not had the strength, the will, and I don't know what else. This thesis isn't good. Social care can't be such a dangerous political game, it's a game subject. Highlight which benefits are right for professional workers in this moment the package. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84449	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84450	Thank you, Commissioner Murganić, as someone who has performed this duty, I am sure you know best the problems or challenges this system faces. As for the benefits of the profession and your observation of the profession and the representatives of the profession, because I absolutely agree there is no point in spending any further words, however, if we are talking about the benefits, and above all we have stressed that we want to strengthen the system, we have shown that, rather than just stressing the employment of additional employees in the welfare system, more than 200 in the centres and more than 100 in other service providers that are connected to the Republic of Croatia, and in this way we have shown how we want to facilitate their professional action by other workers in the system in the end. As for additional benefits, the Academy of the Social Care System is something that will take care of their lifelong development, their lifelong education, and we believe that this will make them better workers. in the system they belong to. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84451	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84452	Good afternoon, Minister. Of course, the profession is against this law, but I think and I think you've learned a lesson, so you've been bringing the new Labour Act into secret for two years now, and if that law is passed in this form in which the draft of this law has been leaked out there, there will be a downgrade of many labour rights, among other things it will allow the employer to further exploit workers, and the workers, the most workers, at the same time, are taking over this care of the elderly and the powerless that you've deprived everyone who needed it here. This will be made possible by brutally flexible working time. Minister, why are you passing this law in secret, are you afraid of public reaction as you have received here a reaction to this law? And that you're afraid of the public testifying to the fact that no one from your ministry has found a suitable participation in tonight's Labour Law Initiative initiative where you replied that Considering the number of pre-arranged commitments [[Intruder: Thank you.]] you are unable to attend. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84453	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84454	Since it's not a topic, I don't know if it's normal to answer, but I'll answer you anyway. So, as far as secrecy is concerned, I am sure that of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, you can only see this secret because we are talking about this with social partners, so representatives of workers and the Croatian Employers' Association, so representatives of employers for almost two years. First of all, in informal consultations that we have informed the public through various statements, and now in a working group through which all the representatives concerned by this law have something to say. So this part of secrecy is actually one of yours I'd say imagination. And as for the quality of the legal solution itself, I am sure that it will be achieved by the very consensus of all of these parties. So, government, employers and workers' representatives. I really don't see who else at this point, at the moment of the task force's formation should be involved. When it comes to debate in the Croatian Parliament, I am sure that all parliamentary parties will make it very clear and express your views. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84455	Comrade Maximchuk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84456	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, I welcome the reform of this set of social welfare laws that we have all been calling upon and wishing for years. The aim of the reform is, of course, an improvement. Enhancing for users, as well as improving for social care workers. I'll look back like most of my predecessors to the Household Act. We can see from the new bill that 60% of household benefits are increasing, supplies for users are also increasing. There's a whole series of improvements and relaxing measures. I'm sure the effect of this law will be more of a foster home, which, of course, is the aim of this law. I'm going to give a bright example, and this is my county where we have 20 foster families that host about 50 children and of course we have 60 foster families for adults. Every year up to two foster families in the county, we find this one, but of course it's not just coming by itself. it is a dedicated work of all the employees of the center but also of the principal. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84457	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84458	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. So, as far as your particular county is concerned, I have some information here, given that there is a very intense cooperation between the ministry, local service providers and the centre. It is a bright example of increasing number of foster parents in the Republic of Croatia, a bright example of how interaction between the central government authorities in this case of the ministry and local centres or local service providers can be of quality and how fostering can be promoted. So, with all the legislative assumptions that we have made, with all the legislative acts that we are or sublaws that we will bring or vote in the assembly itself... it is also necessary to activate us both in the ministry and local communities, therefore right through the non-combination of these legislative assumptions and those operational assumptions that we are planning. I'm sure it will lead, that combination will lead to an increase in the number of foster parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84459	Comrade Puljak, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84460	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, one perhaps banal question that has been asked here by members of the academic community not to be afraid, not by those who have participated in any government before, which is that they are actually interested in who were members of the task force who were actually working on making this law. We had a national council that advised the body whether, somehow, nowhere was we able to find a decision by the ministry about the task force and the people who worked on the draft of this law. So, who wrote this set of laws, huh? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84461	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84462	Dear MPs, I thank you for asking. So, as far as the task force is concerned, I have to admit that I'm not sure whether the decision is made publicly or not. But we don't have a problem publishing it unless something's stopping us from doing it. The academic community, the academic community, the chambers, the absolutely all who, who are present on this market, were part of a task force that worked on the draft law, but I have already mentioned so we have a whole series of other additional bodies such as the National Council for Social Policy Development, acts such as the Action Plan for the improvement of the social care system, and from this perspective, therefore these are people who have worked on this legal solution, or on all legislative solutions over a long period of years. I dare say the decision has changed here and there, but we've never removed anyone from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84463	Here you go, pal Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84464	Dear Minister, here I would like to commend you for resisting putting into the Household Law regardless of the enormous pressure of these left-wing liberal associations, the part relating to fostering children from those who have registered through a life partnership or by homosexual couples. So thank you for your consistency, thank you for resisting their attacks. But here I want to hear your comment on the decisions of the courts where it was allowed in one case, and perhaps your comment on here are some kind of initiative of some also legitimate groups, associations, which here even want to go so far that the team specifically in my neighborhood wants to if homosexuals can adopt or foster children that and the team that gathers on Wednesdays on the pen, too, and have plenty of time at home.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84465	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84466	Dear Representative Zekanovic, I thank you for asking. So, as for the very law on fostering those first assumptions, or the first objectives of the law we set, we have fulfilled in full their fullness. As far as the courts' decisions are concerned, I really don't want to comment on the decisions of the courts, I haven't done it before, I haven't, I won't do it in the future. And as far as the world's views are concerned, I'm sure everyone has one of their own, some of their own visions from the perspective of our system and from the perspective of the law that we're now editing from the perspective of some other acts, but what we've presented is what we defend, what we think we're going to improve the system, we've introduced it in laws and we're going to stick to it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84467	My colleagues, Vucilović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84468	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The respected ministers in the 5 law package refer to professional associations or chambers of employees, and these laws state that the chambers remain independent. And now you explain to me how they are still independent if the ministry has to ask for agreement on the financial plan, so for the annual plan, and if they don't get it in time, I can't go to the assembly and I'll just remind you that the Chamber of Social Workers has waited a year and a half for consent to the statute. How can you work if you wait 18 months for only the Ministry to approve your statutes? How will professional associations, how will the chambers work and why are these 5 chambers in such a position compared to all the professional associations we have in the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84469	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84470	I thank you for asking. So, as far as the independence of the chamber's work is concerned, it is not at all questionable, so it exists as such. The chambers can do their job as they have done so far, with certain consents they will receive from the ministry relating above all to finance and related to those public powers that have been laid down by the chambers. When we talk about exercising public authority, I don't know how else we can ask someone to exercise public authority to whom they are assigned if they refuse. This same chamber you mentioned in the last four years did not carry out any expert surveillance, which was the public authority they were to exercise. If they'd spent it, maybe some things in the system would have looked different.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84471	Here you go, Comrade Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84472	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, I understand your desire and your intensity to make things better. However, the income limit for the risk of poverty is defined to me somewhere on 2,900 kuna per household member on a monthly basis. 5% of full-time employees in Croatia are not on the poverty line according to this ear but are already in poverty deep, deep. By what logic do you interpret that the amount in cca on average 200 kuna raises everything we talk about this morning, and all day long we will talk about will reduce the risk of poverty so that unemployed and working people and on the other hand persons with disabilities who are not as well as those previously mentioned on the border but are already living in a way that they barely make ends meet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84473	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84474	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. So this is the challenge facing the entire social security system, so I'm talking about those who have low incomes, and they're employed, I'm talking about those who have low pensions or inadequate pensions, and we're talking about, of course, those that are in the social care system itself. It is clear to all of us that financial and fiscal effects cannot become significantly greater overnight in the system itself. In this way, we have invested a billion and 200, nearly a billion and 200 million kunas in the system at this time, and we believe that this is in line with our opportunities as the Republic of Croatia, but general and economic growth and increasing the minimum wage and increasing the adequateness of pensions that we are working on and increasing the adequateness of the social benefits presented here lead to a reduction in poverty and a reduction in the risk of poverty. These steps are long and will last for a while, however, each of these steps will have a certain positive effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84475	Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84476	The Honorable Minister, the Honorable Chairman. Here are many experts who believe that this is not about reforming the social system, but primarily about reorganisation or centralization of it, so I'm curious how you intend to synchronise this centralized system with units of local self-government that are specific and each has some additional social measures depending on which unit is it? How will these units cooperate with the centers themselves? Is there going to be a lack of communication or is it going to be more quality?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84477	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84478	Thank you. The territorial availability of each particular area unit of the institution itself will be at the level of the territorial availability that we have at the centre, so these future district offices or regional services of the office will not be further removed from the community than the current centres, therefore, in the territorial approach itself. What is the fact that the way it works itself and just synchronising it will happen and it will have one positive effect. Only prioritizing certain services at the level of a local unit will continue to exist through the institution and we are sure that there will be no problems in the context of the needs of a local community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84479	A colleague of the Hill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84480	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. You know that I have repeatedly spoken in the function of protecting family homes and those who work well and always advocated the separation of grain from the weeds. I'm glad you found a kind of compromise with family home associations, but it's not quite the first visible in the law because their commitment to transformation still exists. The only change is that there are homes with up to 20 and more than 20 persons for accommodation of 20 and more than 20 people. So, did I get it right that we're going to have foster homes, little homes, a little bigger homes because if it's not going to be called family homes, then we're going to have institutions, so we're going to have private homes, and we're going to have decentralised homes and state homes? Is that what's standing there and where it's going to be made clear? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84481	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84482	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. Yes, there will be a whole range of service providers that are needed for older people, this is the idea of this part of the family home itself, and once again I will emphasize we have agreed and agreed with all those actors who provide this type of service, so here we show that we want to have a dialogue, that we want to have a very open conversation with all those who are dealing with this business, but on the other hand we also want to arrange the system through sublegal acts and other acts that will be adopted at the government level of the Republic of Croatia we will define the conditions of providing certain services. But what is of interest and what is the aim of providing such services is for users to be satisfied on one hand and for us to have a wide range of services that can be provided to users. Only in this way will the long-term care system for older people be of quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84483	Let's move on, now she's a colleague of Nadia's, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84484	Thank you. Dear Minister. You talked about the regional unbalanced accessibility of social services that we look at daily and in shows about the lives of singles mostly persons of a third age living without enough income and without being able to take care of themselves, especially now the problem in the areas affected by the earthquake in Sisak-Moslavina County. Now I'm interested in what are these concrete new, better social services that will facilitate the life of socially endangered people on the earthquake affected areas so that we don't just have to rely again on the help of the association "People for People" and Branko Bakšić and Maja Sever, tell me specifically what are the services? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84485	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84486	Thank you. Dear MPs, thank you for asking. So as far as social services are concerned, we have defined a national plan from a strategic level, so a strategic plan for the development of social services. It includes a whole range of services for all users in the Republic of Croatia and what we want to achieve through this national plan and through the European Social Fund plus as a source of funds and a state budget as well... is to increase the quantity in all places, at all locations where they are represented. So what's a general idea and we're sure that in the long run and we want to achieve is that it's a need that exists in a large environment that may at this point have a greater availability of social services can also be met in a smaller environment that has a smaller one. When we talk about the earthquake affected areas there is definitely help in the house is something that was most important at the moment, we will continue through the programme "Wish", but also through cooperation with the local associations involved. Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic is extremely active on this matter, I'm sure everything will be... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84487	My colleague, Antoliæ Vupra, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84488	Mr. Minister, the President of the Assembly. The question concerns accommodation options for the user's spectrum, so it is the user who pays the service with the help of the state or himself. How will you finally make a system in which the user will be justly targeted and pay justly as much as it is provided to him, on the other hand, how will you protect, therefore, this is a question for those persons who are retired and elderly who need their services in newly formed, newly formed forms of family homes and social care institutions so that there is not so much injustice, that someone in other founders’ institutions is paying the same service of 2000 kuna and elsewhere 5 or 7, and that this service is still too little? And how else are you going to protect social workers? care that in courts without protection [[Intruder: Thank you.]] testify in criminal or criminal proceedings [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Infringements? [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84489	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84490	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. So as for the very price of the service, the categorization and everything that depends on, so what defines the quality and price of the service, we launched the project, or earlier, which was launched, several years ago, a project that should live up to, in the middle of this year, and will be implemented by the end, or early 2023. It is a methodology for providing social services that will define, i.e., a pricing methodology that will define how prices will be determined, how much these prices will be and what quality of accommodation will have to exist for certain prices. If you're looking at PFU patterns for laws, you can see the big difference between 2023 and 2022, exactly one reason is in that price harmonisation methodology because we're sure that in order to reconcile quality prices we're going to have to meet certain prices and increase, which means that prices might be At some point higher, however, quality and categorisation will have to be [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Just as big. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84491	Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84492	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, it is clear to all of us here that in fact the welfare system serves to provide aid for the weak, powerless, unemployed, unsettled in the settlement of basic living costs, the moss when it comes to food, nutrition, clothing and housing. Now, does this Social Care Act suit our fellow citizens' needs if we consider that 700 thousand live in poverty, and 900 thousand of our fellow citizens are on the verge of poverty, and a little more than 50,000 just uses a guaranteed minimum fee. You will now boast that we have raised the basis of the guaranteed minimum fee from 800 to 1000 kuna. Yes, but it hasn't been changed since 2014, and that 200 kuna increase has already eaten inflation. So these, these amounts don't follow the cost of life. On the other hand, you're reducing housing costs from 50 percent to 30%, and you're not touching the same, the vouchers that they are adopted, although by the Government's regulation on energy poverty [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84493	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84494	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. I've already partially answered this question, but I'm going to say it again. So this social security system is extremely complex. It must be consistent and must be continuous and continuous in all parts of it, must increase either fees or wages or whatever the income of the population raises. So we are aware that the guaranteed minimum fee has not been corrected for a long time and we are aware that over the past few years the impact of the growth costs has therefore had an impact on the real value of this fee. We are correcting it now for 200 kuna, but in our pre-election programme we have made it very clear that we believe it should be corrected from 800 to 1500 kuna and that is something that will happen. As far as energy poverty is concerned, if we talk about it, or the government's regulation, I'm pretty sure we're going to see some changes very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84495	My colleague Posavec the Sinner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84496	I would like to thank the Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Minister. It's been a long time since you've been minister of welfare. I'm sure you're familiar with all the problems in that very complex system. I am sure that although you sometimes do not show it through your approach you are very sensitive to all persons and to all users who are in your system, we are now talking specifically about your responsibility. That's why, Minister, I ask you, have you forgotten about the people of the spectrum of autism disorders? Have you forgotten about the people who after 21 years were left alone to take care of their parents? Have you forgotten about their chieftains that are in the system outside institutional accommodation much lower than those in the institutional accommodation system? Minister, I ask you, are you prepared by your signature and by amending the regulation or regulations to level and remove that discrimination for which you have been receiving enquiries from these parents for a year and a half?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84497	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84498	Dear MPs, so when we talk about legal changes, I'm glad you commended them and I'm glad you don't have any more specific objections to the set of proposed laws. As far as this particular example is concerned, so we have proved as Government that we are ready to increase the standard of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as well as citizens who are dealing with these difficult problems, and I don't think there is even, I would even say in this House of Representatives some different opinion, so we have shown that we have included absolutely everything, we have shown that all those who possibly have their grudges are willing to listen and I am sure that we will solve not all the problems, but most of the problems in the system itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84499	Comrade Lukacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84500	Dear Minister, here I would like to express my thanks and praise to my colleagues from the European Forum for Persons with Disabilities since they have been informed of the whole situation regarding the adoption of this package of laws. They also commended you and the prime minister for having simply, I would say, courage, some others in Europe don't have that because others have censorship, to end the censorship of a personal disability for people with disabilities. So it is a civilization step and they thank the Republic of Croatia for joining a larger number of non-census countries in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84501	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84502	Dear MPs, I would also like to thank you for your personal involvement, given that you are a person with disabilities and your desire to help people with disabilities. What is the duty of all of us, as well as the ministries and the entire government of the Republic of Croatia, is to include all vulnerable groups in some way in society. We are sure that the increase in these fees, the increase in personal disability, leads indirectly to better involvement in society. Among other things, the national plan that we have adopted earlier in the Government for equating opportunities for people with disabilities goes in this direction, and I am sure that this is one of the additional steps, i.e. the second step because we have already taken certain steps in increasing personal disability, an additional step in improving the material rights of disabled persons. However, this does not mean that we will not be able to do more in the future. The only question of censorship was also a very long subject of dispute and debate, and now we have finally removed it from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84503	Hey, buddy Buck, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84504	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. I have a question, I have a specific question about these so-called. chamber laws. For example, when talking about the socio-pedagogical activity or the social work activity or the educational rehabilitation activity which is a necessary qualification condition to acquire the right to carry out those activities. Is that the seventh or eighth level of education? In other words, do these laws only require pre-graduate studies, or do they seek a graduate degree? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84505	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84506	Since the chamber laws, therefore, were harmonised and we wanted to bring them into line better in terms of regulation of professions regarding the seventh or eighth degree of completion, and one and the other can be acceptable. Where there is a difference in the acceptability of the seventh or eighth degree is what jobs can do as such. Of course, everything we have connected is also in line with the Croatian qualification framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84507	Comrade Kekin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84508	Thank you, Mr. President. The respected ministers of your ministry are also responsible for users who suffer from dementia, Alzheimer's or any other, and who often in the medium, difficult stage of the disease due to the severity of the symptoms actually have a need for accommodation in a department that is completed and which significantly restricts freedom of movement. It is not legally regulated at this time and is contrary to Article 5. European Conventions on Human Rights and Article 16 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because this is de facto about deprivement of freedom without legal basis. The consent of the custodian is not sufficient if the user is opposed. So we have a situation right now that in Croatia a person can live for years in conditions of limited freedom of movement without being able to leave the institution and very often because of the lack of staff, without being able to get out at all, and all of this without a legal basis, so I'm curious that you are the minister of the competent ministry when and how do you plan to solve it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84509	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84510	Thank you. I must admit that for these specific cases I do not have enough knowledge, because simply the system requires its complexity in this case in a concrete answer to the question of one deep knowledge of the work, or profession that you are and not personally. Demention is always, in general, everything we've had so far from cases related to the health system and I suppose the answer should be sought at the level of cooperation between us and health care. However, we tend to get a little deeper into this topic and solve the problem if it exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84511	And the last replica of my colleague Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84512	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The years-long drive to foster as an institute of strength remains a failure. That's not what I said. And you yourself agreed in your presentation with that fact and exact figures. Tell me, how is this bill going to improve and strengthen this institute?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84513	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84514	Dear MPs, I thank you for asking. So I've already spoken of similar questions a few times, but I'm going to do it one more time. So we believe that there are several reasons why foster care is not further strengthened in the past period, that is, why there is a greater number of those who come out of foster care than those who enter foster care. We see above all in the increase, i.e. fees, the amount of fees and supplies we raise between 20 and 42% of the supply and 15 to 60% of the fee. The second part of what is related is relatively strict conditions for the provision of the foster care itself which we consider to be not so necessary at this time, but also for a certain level of cooperation between local units, empowerment in the field of foster care as well as promotional campaigns are necessary from a technical perspective, so after the law is passed, in order to really liven up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84515	Minister, thank you. You can go back to your place because we're done with the replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. A colleague, Vucimilovic and a colleague, Pavliček, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84516	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, respected ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. In front of us, second reading is extremely important from a package of laws that some call social reform, and part of the expert public says it's just a reorganisation. In any case, this package of laws has produced great public interest. It doesn't have to surprise us because we live in a country where more than 400,000 pensioners have a pension of less than 2,500 kuna, but tone means they all have 2,500 kuna so there are classes of up to 500 kuna, up to 1,000, 1,500 and we really have to wonder how these people live. We live in a country where 240,000 are blocked with 25 billion kunas of which nearly 7 billion are interest. We live in a country where 31% of the older than 65 are at risk of poverty. We live in a country where 70% of those living in the category of the poor live in 5 Slavonian counties and in Sisak-Moslavina County. Therefore, the diagnosis is quite clear. This reform, a reorganisation as some say, is also being done because of the unification of the practice of the welfare centre. Now, considering all the things I've said so far and the aim of this reform, we're wondering if that's going to be achieved by unification? I agree that we must always make sure that the service is suitable, that we have a user in focus. I agree that it should be the same level of service throughout Croatia, but are these the same services throughout Croatia? Are the same services in Osijek-Baranja, Sisak-Moslavina or perhaps Istria County or here in the City of Zagreb? Unfortunately, there are poor people in all parts, but in some parts there are more. And those are the facts. It's numbers. These are Eurostat figures, these are HZMO figures, these are the figures of relevant institutions, and are we going to achieve this reform or not? If we ask all those who need to provide these services, they say we will not. Their professional associations believe this package of laws will not contribute. It is not disputed that the fees will increase. That's a fact. A billion and 100 million kunas have been foreseen in 2 years, and that's good, but the question is how much of this increase that's been waiting for years can compensate all of these purchases and inflation that we're witnessing. I think it's very difficult because if you look at energy prices, if you look at basic food prices, then some increase of 200 kuna per month is not enough. The user is many and when you multiply these 200 kunas from those 600,000 users then the fees are really numerous. These are large amounts, but in the end they are not enough. It remains what somehow remains hanging in the air, and that is what will be achieved now with this centralization. Is this really just the way to copy, the way the pension insurance system is organised to the welfare system? Do we mix pears and apples in some way? It's not the same system. And that's what you need to say clearly and openly. How it's going to work is the question. One of the arguments is that professional and professional employees are dissipated from administrative affairs. That's where two questions come in. If we're going to relieve them of administrative affairs that are now going to be done at the central level why they're rebelling. If someone told me I'd have to work less, so it wouldn't be any reason for my expression, to express some disdain, at least it shouldn't be. And if someone did that, so now they won't work if there's going to be a cancellation at the level of local, local self-government units. And of course, there remains an open question in view of all the differences we have and here amongst the districts by the level of development, GDP, per capita, etc., in which way this new organisation will now respond to the challenge of co-operation with the local and regional community because if you have pensioners less than 2,500 kuna, they are at great risk of poverty and we have to ask ourselves how they live. Then they have some compensation from the county, so let the community or city fees, so it's not just what goes through a package of these laws. The question is how will this be synchronised and how will this part be solved. There have been no major changes between these two readings, something mostly related to people with disabilities, and I welcome that, but it remains open several questions that we had in our first reading. One is the meaning for the Board of Appeals to decide on the basis of the complaint, where there should be 5 representatives of citizens to be elected through a public call. And the question of how can these five people answer all the complaints that occur during the year and they are extremely numerous. There remains another aspect, which is how this commission will be and the question is whether you have foreseen at all how this new commission will now co-operate, for example, with the Office of the Attorney General or with the offices of some other lawyers who are also dealing with these complaints. That part somehow stayed in the air and I think that if you haven't already predicted the law you should definitely arrange some sublaws. As far as foster care is concerned, I welcome these changes, and we have seen in those three years that we have no new foster parents. The whole system is kind of dying, getting older, the problems are big. I listened carefully to the minister in the presentation. He seems to have forgotten about a very important thing about foster care. And if you talk to them then they will always, not even put a financial aspect of foster care in the first place, in focus, but just professional help they need extremely. And I think that part is something to put emphasis on and that part should also be highlighted somehow. As far as the chambers are concerned, I've already said in the replica what the chambers said but also what's obvious. So if you, said the minister only refers to the financial aspect. It's not them, they're still independent, but here's the financial aspect that's going to be a little bit more careful. They'll have to ask for everything from the ministry's license, and what's more to put out their independence, their independence, if they have to wait for each financial annual plan for a year and a half for the ministry to give them consent, then you've tied their hands and then they're de facto no longer independent.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84517	Now, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, the respected representative, Marijan Pavliček, will continue to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84518	The respected chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the number of social benefits users in Croatia is becoming less and less. In the last three years, the number of social benefits users has dropped by 10,000. These are newspaper inscriptions that sound nice. You'd really think that we're a well-developed, highly-developed country where people are obviously getting better and better at living, where living standards are getting better. But when you analyze these same newspaper articles a little bit more then you come up with frightening results. In fact, the number of social benefits users is reduced for two reasons. It is primarily about elderly people who have passed away and on the other hand it is part of a working-active population that left Croatia and went to Western European countries with the belly of bread and provided a life worth living for a man in the 21st century. Another data show a truly real picture in Croatian society, and he says there were 239278 blocked citizens at the end of 2021 with a total debt of 18.1 billion kuna, which is by 3.3% more blocked than last year. This figure will obviously increase rapidly this year. The reason for this is the drastic collection of energy, electricity, fuel, gas, and drastic purchases of almost all food products in shops. Well, here's a few for comparison. One orange last year at this time cost about a kilo of orange 8 kuna, today about 10 to 12 kuna depending on trade. A kilo of bananas last year cost 8 kunas 7.99, today costs 9.79. Last year, a kilo of cucumbers cost about 13 kuna, today as much as 19 kuna. Last year's fresh eggs cost about nine and a half kuna, today cost 13 and a half kuna. It's an increase of 20, 30, 50, somewhere over 100% in just a year. The wages of course did not follow and the standard of our fellow citizens from month to month is becoming weaker. And here is the biggest trap to be mentioned because it refers to the largest number of our fellow citizens. Nearly a million citizens of the Republic of Croatia live on the poverty line, almost a million citizens. They're people who are thinking right now about whether they're going to turn on the heat, whether they're going to charge the wood, or they're going to do it an hour later. They're people who are thinking about whether they're going to turn the lights on in the house at five o'clock or they're going to wait for 7 o'clock in the evening. What is even more devastating by all statistics is that every 4th child in the Republic lives on the edge of poverty, every 4th child, we are all sensitive to children. They're kids who went half-naked to school today and they live there 50 meters around us, maybe my neighbors or your neighbors, and that's the defeat of all of us. Every 4th child, that child doesn't have a cell phone at home, that child doesn't have a laptop at home, that child doesn't have the ability to go to sports, football, tekvando, karate parents don't have 150 kuna to pay him membership fee per month and that's a picture of Croatia. We have two Croatians, Croatia for the chosen and Croatia for the ordinary regiment. And all of these reforms, or these reorganisations, are just a drop in the sea. Without true economic reform, increasing the standards of our citizens, demographic reforms are not good for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84519	The next Club of Representatives will be the Mosta, and time will be shared by the respected representative Selak Rasdic and the respected representative Kujundzic. First respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84520	In the meantime, I will return to a complete problem concerning the users of this law and a question that I have asked the resolute minister who, unfortunately, is not here right now. In fact, it is a confusion that we should hope for an unintended error that occurred in this law, which is that those who have the 4th degree of damage are listed in Article. 58th century 1 of this law as those entitled to compensation for assistance and care, not just as in previous articles as those entitled to a personal disability. The personal disability to be fully understood is a much higher amount of 1,750 kuna and these persons certainly deserve it unlike this fee, which is nevertheless a significantly smaller amount of 600 kuna. Now where do we have a problem? I asked this question to the minister, and I didn’t accidentally ask him, I asked him not only because I carefully read this proposal of the law, which shows that this item stands but also because I listened carefully to what he was saying, and in his address he publicly boasted that an extended circle of users is a right of compensation for help and care to persons who have a degree of damage to functional abilities. So that's one to him, according to what he said today in HS, from the newspaper of this bill that shows how socially sensitive and comprehensive this law is. After I referred the replica to him, he gave me a completely different answer, gave me the answer that he saw this mistake and, of course, that he would, not through the opposition proposal, but through the HDZ amendment, change that item if I understood correctly in the final vote of the law, which is certainly for the benefit of our citizens, and I warmly welcome it. However, we have a serious systemic problem. I don't know which minister I'm communicating with, the one who spoke two minutes ago and boasted about this very legal amendment or the one who responded to my replica after two minutes to something completely different or the solution to that confusion might be very simple. The minister neither writes what he read, nor thinks about what he read, and how much such a person is then, and here I have set a concrete example, competent to discuss such serious and systematic reform as social care reform. And now I'm going to move on to some concrete remarks concerning these legal changes, which I think should be further elaborated, perhaps in some future legislative package, if clearly they will not be respected here because we see that since the first reading, many of them are not respected. I hope so, and I will immediately say that these new changes will not have to be triggered by another tragic case but will work on it as previously should be done without media pressure due to the social demand for democratic fluids and the need to develop a quality social care system. In this regard, I must express my concern that, unfortunately, seeing what is happening right now, what is the situation with energy and what is the situation with inflation, I fear we are talking about a system that will be more and more dependent on our citizens. In this regard, at the end of this address, I will also say something about other concrete measures that we should include just to relieve the social care system because we need to be constructive, make proposals and on this trail I will also welcome the Minister's intention to try to sort out this system even though I must stress that I am not fully satisfied as a significant part of the professional public with the proposed amendments. The first thing I want to point out in that sense is that when we call this law as we do in art. 3. where we state that social care is an organised activity of public interest whose aim is to help socially endangered persons to improve the quality of life, etc., we should first agree on these basic categories in the first place. We should know what a socially endangered person means to us and what it means to improve someone’s quality of life so that we can develop a system of social care on this basis because these are not just the floscules that are in certain legal changes, but these should be clearly defined criteria that will allow us to call quality law. I would like to make a similar remark about the article. 8. which speaks of the principle of timeliness where it points out that social care should be achieved in a way that ensures timely identification of the needs of users. In Croatia, depending on the year between 700 thousand and a million people live somewhere at risk or at the poverty line. What does this mean in a timely manner? Obviously from the practice that this does not happen in a timely manner, that prevention or consequently the system itself due to lack of prevention requires. And then why are these flossules again within this law that we haven't explained, that don't find justification in practice. Furthermore, in Article 10, when we talk about persons who have the right to participate in an assessment of the state of need and to decide on the use of services, they are users of the social care system. Here, for example, we listed a child who has the right to express himself in an appropriate way about his interests, including persons who are deprived of their business ability to participate and give an opinion. The question arises, however, what about people with severe mental disorders. Perhaps we should also make it clear here that there would be no confusion in the sense that they too have the right to give an opinion in assessing the state of need and to decide on the use of services as well as other users of the social care system referred to above. In Article 15, we cite basic life needs and define them in some ways, which are the needs that need to be secured within the system. However, we should have a broader and serious public debate about what basic needs of life are at all. For example, when you look at the German system, you can see in it that these basic needs of life belong to example, culture and the possibility of participation in the wider community in terms of the use of its system. So many others, not just these basic elements that are in our law. We have never fully considered what these basic needs of life would be for us at all and whether they should be extended in a way that users of the social care system are mainly not discriminated against by those children who are not, for example, in the social care system who have, for example, the right to culture and some other content that enables their smooth and equal development in the community. When we talk about social exclusion, I'm talking about the inability of an individual to participate in the ordinary activities of a society that belongs to him because of the factors that are beyond his control. However, it is so defined in the law but nowhere and from nothing is it clear how we allow this law and these rights. Also in Article 21, when we list social care benefits, we first need to determine how we will make this possible through this law and rights, and only later can we issue fees. And what is crucial, the resources or people who are going to implement these changes at all, I'm talking here about establishing a family centre, and we don't have an answer to the question of how sub-capacitated the social system is, do we have enough people who will be able to behave in the quality of these functions within these legal changes once they come into force. I'm going to list a few arguments that the profession has warned about and which is why it is not satisfied with these legal changes that I consider justified. One is inaccessibility as a consequence of the definition and censusing of social services in the law. So the services are scheduled, the number of services has been expanded from 10 to 15. However, some key services such as disability assistance are lacking, thus narrowing down the possibility of extending these services if the need for new services comes, so it would be better as proposed to go towards the service cluster rather than to be clearly printed here. We can also talk about the financial inaccessibility of social services and how useful it would be to provide for the level of participation of citizens in the payment of social services, non-compliance with the level of liability of relations between the Institute of Social Labour, local self-government and the relevant ministry. And what has been a great deal of decentralisation, so empowerment and improvement of the decentralisation system, and not the centralised response, as what should be replaced by currently insufficient decentralisation. In this context, I will conclude this part of the debate with the fact that this law-making process has not been inclusive and transparent, that we have not had a broader debate on the objectives of the reform and that they are in line with the criteria of public need and that we will ultimately not have any quality changes to this system in practice. If I'm hungry, it's a material problem. If another is hungry said by the great Russian philosopher Nikolai Berdjayev it is a spiritual problem. And in this sense, when we talk about the users of the social care system, we all have a common spiritual problem that we should work on more seriously and in a greater dialogue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84521	Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the respected representative Kujundzic will continue to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84522	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministry officials, since there is no minister, respected colleagues and colleagues have made it clear to me that the amendment to the Household Act is clear to me. So, if we can get it up by 10% or something more or something less, we'll see it, of course, it'll show us that time, and I welcome it. But what I'm going to talk about here is a sin of failure that could have been made and not. I will note that as early as 2002, a first systematic study on deinstitutionalisation was actually made, which actually envisioned the gradual closure of most of the homes in our country, not only for children, but of course a complete transfer from time to time to family environment, i.e. a biological or foster family, as well as an independent housing of persons with professional support. At that time, an ambitious plan was presented to the public that should take all of this between 10 and 18 years. We're in our 20s today and we're at the beginning, but we can't go back, the question is, have we learned anything from this? Generally known is the fact that for two years now, homes for carefree children to whom I will especially concentrate have exceeded capacity. Whoever was in those homes, who looked those kids in the eyes should have understood and felt only one thing, they were focus, he and no one else. Not a biological family, not a foster family, and I adopted three children, not a foster family, not a home, not a home, but they. Are they really the core of these legal changes? I say they're not and that's what I think is devastating. Those who have the right to a family, who have the right to grow up, who have the right to a peaceful dream and not to be further pathetic, although I find it difficult not to be subjective because I look them in the eyes every day. What do we have in practice? The lengthening of court proceedings that have been going on for years, we have a huge number of increases in abandoned children, even twice as high as in 2015, so we have a huge trend in the growth of abandoned children. The system is still. Do you know how often in practice they go on? 13 years. Who's going to adopt or foster a child when they're 13 years old? And the truth is, the answer is it's not the subject of this law, it's not, but for God's sake it could be a family law part of this package, and it's not. He could have been made in cooperation with the Department of Justice, but he didn't. Will it? I believe in the intensities of Minister Aladrovic, whom I do not consider guilty of this system, it is all those who have spent 30 years of this system of water, who spend some of them in these assembly benches and today, and now they will boast neatly and emotionally with this. With what? With a percentage of the foster care. So who's normal that 830 kuna was a foster care fee for one foster child and now it's 1,350. If we take the average foster parent to work in two shifts in one day, and often times and three, but let's keep on two shifts that's 480 hours a month. You know what happened? And in order for me not to get the wrong idea, I welcome and thank you on behalf of the foster homer countless of them I've met, it's happened that you've raised the captain from five kunas and 10 limes to eight kunas and 47 limes. That's what happened and it's good, we agree the intensity is up. But what pisses me off or dares to say eating is one self-gratitude, for 20 or a month and it will continue here today after this pay phone of various characters. I say characters on purpose, not people with a name and a last name. A man should be realistic, if I'm cowardly, then I'm cowardly, but I want to change something. Now I'm crawling on my knees, but I guess that day will come when we get up and walk, but we're gonna brag and we're already doing it with something that's still in this kind of Croatia below the average of something that they have dignity on, mostly children, and then foster parents and everyone else. The quality of legal solutions over the past 30 years may well be pictured in the one adopted on 1 January 2019. which is pompously announced. A huge amount of money has been spent in her campaign in the context of the development of specialized foster homes where the criteria and conditions for who can do so are clearly laid down, which can be announced is a solution that should actually move the children away and put them back where they belong, which is family. What happened? We don't have any specialized foster parents for nearly three years. What do we do next? With this law we go ok, soften the conditions, thinking it would be the solution that should lead to adoption. God forbid it's really like that. Today, children without adequate parental care in Croatia are cared for by just over 1300 foster families of which 439 belong to the family category, which means that by stopping or growing up such children of this family family do not plan to continue to be fostered. The problem we encountered in just three years is the increase of the average age of the foster parents themselves from 55 to 60, which is problematic because the foster parent at age 65 ceases to have the right to foster care. The problem is obviously years, and it's not the problem of the year with those parents whose court or court doesn't deprive them of the right to raise, and those who do, maybe my age is 38, they may be 25. They're not a problem, our problem is people with 65 years of experience. Well, for God's sake, wouldn't it make more sense that someone who can be a foster parent, who can't be a foster parent, who doesn't judge a commission based on his professional assessment, can decide whether someone is capable of providing a child with values, providing a child with a child's education, not a number of years. During 2020 The welfare system has betrayed you know how much? A total of 145 licences for foster parents, and at the same time 543 families left the foster home system. We currently have a huge number of children who should be separated from the family, but we have one problem, we have no place with them, we have no place with them. Children thus remain unsatisfactory or, I don't know what word to use in this cheap Croatian dictionary, if we're talking about a child, in such families, and crowded homes only receive emergencies. In 2021. 4 439 children were without adequate parental care, which is twice as much as the last 5 years. 126 children were adopted in 2015. Do you know how adopted it was last year? 129. So, practically, we didn't get off the dead end, with all the conditions. Well, no former minister was, I don't know, anyone who doesn't know anything. Or, or maybe he really doesn't know anything, maybe no one in this whole period has tried to figure out what the problem is? I'm out of time. I'll keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84523	Now, on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, the honourable representative Veljko Kajtazi will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84524	I would like to thank the esteemed vice president of HS, the respected representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues. First, I would like to express my satisfaction that it has been relatively little time between the first reading and the final draft of the law. Although it is a very complex and sensitive subject, the social care system, we have waited too long for the new law and there is really no need to further delay its adoption. I would also like to refer to changes in the final proposal in relation to the original proposal. I'm glad it's changed that rights also have people without citizenship who only have a temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia. The alignment is with the Convention on the Status of Persons Without Citizenship. So far, users could be those who have only a permanent stay and a long-term residence in the Republic of Croatia, but people who have a temporary stay are generally in extremely difficult social economic conditions and it is just and justly that they have also been given the opportunity to be users. It is not about a large number of people, or a great burden on the budget, but the fact is that the proposal is respected shows that it has been taken care of by the humanity of the system, which I am pleased to notice. Also, I find a positive increase in the amount of personal disability from 300 to 350% of the base. In addition, an income census has been abandoned as well as an asset censorship for the recognition of the right to a personal disability. I see all this as big and important shifts in protecting the most sensitive groups such as the disabled. There is also an extended circle of users, the right to compensation for assistance and care, so that they will now include persons who have established the 4th degree of damage... skills, which will enable those persons to exercise their rights even though they do not have the conditions to recognise the right to a personal disability. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are the most important amendments to this proposal compared to the text of several months ago, and I would now refer to some of the provisions of the law that I also consider important, especially for the Roma national minority in Croatia, which must be among the most threatened by many basics. I must stress that for many years I have sought to amend this law, including some of the illogicalities that exist in the current law, and often referred to members of the Roma national minority. For example, people were deprived of compensation if they owned any car, even the cheapest one, or if they were just found driving even in a borrowed car. Even if we don't go into absurd treatment, about the equality of all citizens, and so on about the right to driver's license because this regulation sent it actually worthless because you shouldn't have used it, and it's about absurdity and looking at only practical situations. Since no vehicle is to be used to transport from point to point, at least go to the pharmacy or to the grocery store. People don't stay but use public transport. Now, anyone who's ever been to a Roma settlement knows that they're pretty far from other inhabited areas, and that public transport saves school buses usually falls within the sphere of science fatalism. There is nothing left for the users but to walk or use a bike, so you could see people in the empty years or pregnant women cycling to the city or shop around Roma settlements. Unfortunately, we have other users of poor health conditions, and even if they are perfectly healthy, walk 10 to 15 kilometers per rain or -10, or to 40, it's not exactly something we would like to wish for anyone, just to go buy medicines or bread and milk. To be clear, such a regulation damages other than the Roma because there are many users in the traffic isolated areas of Kordun, Banovina, Slavonia or Like, where they are further and by the wave of older age, so that the only thing left for such people is to rely on the mercy of neighbors or anyone else who will translate them to the nearest place where there is a doctor, shop or some institution that they need very much. That kind of... Subtraction of compensation, if there was a cheapest vehicle, was justified to protect the state budget from manipulation. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] I'd like to know how the state budget is protected so that someone has to walk through medicine and food, it's always been a mystery to me. I must also say that part of the employees of the social care system are very effective in catching the Roma in the use of a vehicle and currently taking away social resources. Unfortunately, some other segments of their work do not perform with the same efficiency. It saddens me to hear that the same thing is still being done even though the new law will change, and so do the employees of the welfare center. Despite the fact that the new law will come into force in a few weeks and this will change, I am still getting information that people are being reimbursed for using a vehicle. Now it will be allowed to have a vehicle worth 40 bases while the base is set to 500 kuna, so the vehicle to a total value of 20,000 kuna. I hope that we will have no problem in that part because the large, large majority of vehicles in Roma settlements, but also in other users, as a rule, do not exceed that amount and does not significantly change their social position. In any case, I am glad that things have been taken into account in the situation of life, and that the question of the law also takes into account common sense, and the circumstances that exist in real life, not just in bureaucratic offices. When it comes to how much I remember my time there was resistance and suggestion that people who work for public good remain and the amount of social assistance even though it was actually done the opposite of the logic of things, so many instead of the work they chose reluctantly. It is not necessary because they are lazy but is it not worth working in this context. Many have done themselves more harm because employment is precisely one of the conditions of easier integration. But besides allowing people to earn enough money for a decent life, it was also possible to find out who he was and who wasn’t willing to work to earn another two to three thousand kunas despite social assistance, so the easiest way to understand who didn’t want to work is to just receive social assistance. Another thing that was said a lot was the introduction of a food voucher instead of a significant minimum fee. This proposal states that the guaranteed minimum compensation may be paid in whole or in part in nature if, under the circumstances established, it is assessed or can be reasonably assumed that the user does not benefit from or will not benefit from the guaranteeed minimum compensation for the purpose of meeting the basic needs of life. It is also stated that everyone is obliged to report to the Bureau suspected that the beneficiary of the guaranteed minimum fee does not benefit from the basic life needs. It remains to be seen how this will be carried out in practice or that it would not happen that employees of the social care centre may arbitrationally decide to pay in nature without clearly established criteria, in particular we must avoid the fact that there is a situation that is taking away money from someone on the basis of someone’s notification that someone saw someone buying something that they did not have to buy, so I do not express myself, for everyone there must be clearly established and all the criteria available. Because of the abuse of alcohol and drugs that are a serious problem, we have always had this possibility in law and against consistent and fair application of it, I have absolutely no problems. For those who clearly find that money aid is being misused at the expense of families and children, a broad non-selective application of this option will certainly not be possible even though many special campaigners have announced for such a proposal. I am glad that on the one hand we have rejected chauvinistic and radical approaches, yet we have given the centers the power to protect every family. In the past few years, we have certainly shown that we are socially sensitive, and we have launched a number of other projects at inter-resor level through the Committee for the Monitoring of the National Plan for Roma Inclusion, thanks to government support and operational programmes for national minorities, with the aim of improving the living conditions of the Roma national minority. When problems occur in the centres or worse in the MUP, it is often too late and the mentioned institutions cannot react comprehensively, effectively and independently without the coordination of the entire system. However, in order to support the centres this year, we have allocated 500,000 kuna to increase the one-off fee because the situation on the ground is such that there is a need for it, but it is certainly a ceasefire and something that alone will not solve the accumulated social problems. That is why I am pleased that, over the past few years, in solving the issue of the Roma national minority, almost all ministries have been introduced because the problems of the Roma national minority are the same as the problems of all citizens, but they still require a more intense effort as they are in the strategic framework both at national and eu level. Our goal is at the end of the whole process... how to improve living conditions, improve opportunities, and in particular to young Roma and Roma to open the door to the world of education and work for which we also have clear indicators that significant steps have been made and that we are doing it slowly and slowly. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84525	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS, and the time will be shared by the respected representatives of Anka Mrak Taritaš and the esteemed representative of Pulak, and the pardoned representative of Pulak first, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84526	I thank the chairman. Here's a colleague still at the meeting, so she'll follow me. So here's the topic for us today is to amend a group of 7 laws that the ministry very confidently calls reforming the social care system. So there's no doubt that the system has been crying out for a long time for reform. Social workers, therefore all involved in this system, have long sought to address and sub-capacitate individual colleagues, over-authorise powers, burying administrations and a number of other problems in the system that have existed for years. Especially since the need for reform has also made us aware of the tragedies that have occurred recently, attacks on social workers, fires that occurred in homes for the elderly and pointed to a completely inadequate system of home surveillance for the elderly. The reform in the resort ministry drawers has been here since 2003, we heard here, today in 2022 a man would think that long and thorough work was being done to prepare the amendments to these seven laws, that everyone would be satisfied, that they were involved in making and this called reform, but we have here the whole rebellion and alarm of the entire professional community, and most of all of all the social workers who are in, who are actually in such a system to work. What's not here right now is not included in this set of laws, and I'd like to mention because they've also pointed out that it's actually a problem, and that's the National Plan against Poverty and Social Exclusion. So we have been warned that it is very bad, written in haste and only to meet the requirement and condition that we have this plan in order to get EU funds. The first problem to go back to this set of laws, the first problem with them is what I asked the reply to the minister's question, so you don't really know who was really here, the working group member who worked, who made these laws. According to these working groups, whether there were several in this past period since 2003, and here it seems that the ministry eventually decided to write and come out with its version of the law despite more than 2,000 objections in the public debate, despite other associations of various professional associations and the academic community which had observations whether this whole draft was on board. In an analysis of these laws, we have been consulted on whether it is with employees in the system, with users and with experts from the academic community from the study of social work. They all say that there are, of course, good things, some good things that are governed by these laws, so let's say centralised may lead to a level playing field, a reduction of some problems with some local sheriffs who sometimes appear at the head and boards of local centres, for example. Here are the homeless who are finally entitled to a reduced, reduced or guaranteed minimum fee, some 500 kuna that will allow them to at least pay some travel expenses. So that's one good thing. However, globally here everyone agrees despite these good things that are being introduced that this is not ultimately the kind of reform everyone expected and wished for. One professor told us here and I'll quote it, I personally think these laws are the last nails in a social work coffin in Croatia. So I'm going to start with a series of here remarks that we got on this set of laws or reform as the ministry likes to call it. So to begin with, I'm going to set a great example here even of corruption that goes up here not only to the institutional level but to this path and to the legislative level. What is it, what is it? So, according to the ministry's action plan, a special service called social mentorship is included, which actually sounds very smart and useful, but it seems that its most important role is that the team around that service actually earns even more money and here's how. So, first of all, she translates, she arranges a book on what's called the so-called book. coaching and translated it from English, which is otherwise one of the EU's projects, so just because it's a project doesn't mean it's a accepted technique and method. Then the book was published whether through the publishing of the Faculty of Law, it was then influenced to introduce it as a new social service into the law, here it is called mentorship in social work and the law states that social workers will have to be educated for this new service, and education will certainly be conducted by a particular special association. So, the truth as I said it was one of the EU projects, but social mentorship is not as a new service at all discussed with us. So, in social work, some even say that it doesn't make any sense, but here's a vision of how and through the law can actually be enjoyed in some way and we can have the root of corruption. Let me now abide by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Activity of Social Work. Amendments and additions to this law apply practically exclusively to the chamber, if they accept and change the existence of the chamber becomes completely pointless and unnecessary and its further maintenance will be merely a vain waste of taxpayers' money. In fact, the functional independence of the chamber completely ceases, which is its basic idea for both us and the world. Some countries that did not want such a function to be isolated did not even organise chambers in this sense, but these chambers are more or less union forms of work. In principle, we seem to have no need to actually have an excessively knocked up ministry that shows its incompetence in many cases so far announced. However, if there is a final state and decides that it has a chamber then it cannot be just some form of professional activity, perform only some institutional ceremony but must be truly independent in its activities and decision-making possibilities. This law makes it completely impossible for her to do so and makes it another unnecessary, impotent state institution that will ultimately serve only to imprison more or less incompetent officials. In any case, with these chambers, what we stand for every time there is talk of chambers is that it is necessary to introduce voluntary membership in chambers that will eventually prove whether the chambers make sense and do they serve or use anyone? If we go back to the law of the academic community now, there are many objections to the terminology that defines social work and care. For example, Article 3 defines the activity as missing the basis of the profession of social work, which is human rights. This article is not in line with the definition of social work as established by international documents of professional, social work. This is a very conservative definition that is even discriminatory for people in a state of social need. Social work is a universal profession and must provide support to all people in need not only those who are legally staying in the Republic of Croatia. What about the help of those who are illegally staying in Croatia? Is he left to the police alone? This is the kind of approach we had to see with a number of so-called. The push backs, the social work he imagines being led by the police. This article is a very dangerous intervention in the profession of social work. Its purpose is to determine what social work is and when it should be used. So this is about the intensity of a law that is discriminatory for people in need and also negatively quantifiable for the profession. Finally, let me just mention before my colleague comes to the Academy of Social Care. So it's very short, inaccurate and superficially regulated, so it's very likely that it's a replacement, or it's some sort of group interest that's behind it. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84527	It will continue on behalf of the Centre and Voice Representatives Club, respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84528	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Not long ago, we had this set of laws in our first reading, and when it was in the first reading, the debate was equally united. That's when I said something I need to do again today. Here I appreciate that it's actually about at least three groups. One group is the Law on Social Care itself, another group is the amendment and addition of the law that is related to foster care, and the third group should then be all that was related to other things. If it were so complex and it was so concise then it would be much better and much more effective. I think the ministry would be better, and that way the debate could really be conducted properly. But what's there is. Let us look at the differences between the first and second readings and what are the remarks that have been and have been adopted. In relation to those basic remarks that were in the first reading, which is the establishment of new working bodies and organisations within organisations nothing has changed. Let's say, just as with a case of earthquake recovery where the government has always remained about its old policy where everything is based on shape, and there's very little content. And it's not absolutely clear and I can't understand it at all, and I have a certain experience in the executive government that this new or modified form will improve content. So we're instituting delusions, centres, academia, commissions, and somehow it seems to me it would be good if the ministry had peeked at at least a little bit into its own regulations and regulations, so it tried to solve the problem of too many cases that social workers have to deal with at the same time. We have regulations that prescribe how many cases individual social workers can deal with at the same time, and they can be double or triple the number of cases. Paper's got a lot of stuff going on. Equally, changes and additions of laws can be made as quickly as possible. It always seems to me that we need to know what the point is, or what the goal is. The point is, if we call it reform, it's hard for me to call it reform, but let's just say that we know what improvements will be made for users, that we know how many people operate in that system, to see what improvements are made for the people in the system to make it easier for them, to know about those 3 million 880 000 residents as many as we actually have social workers. It's not clear to me, and I'll never understand how an academy, one institute or a new commission can help, or to be more specific and to be clear, it's all irrelevant. Perhaps all this would not be so bad and useless to deal with the law’s key problems with the welfare system. Unfortunately, I'm afraid it's to be translated from hollow to empty. For years, this government has promised to reform the welfare system, but to be fair, some have promised before. This law is not reform, and it's not even close. But during that time, when a failure or tragedy occurs, it's said to be a responsibility on all of us. This government has been in power long enough to say without delay that responsibility is on it and then let it take over, and not always the usual methodology when it's good then it's due to a wise government policy headed by a sinless prime minister, and when it's bad, we're all responsible together. I have no intention, and I don't want to say it, and I never say it's all bad and nothing's wrong with these suggestions. Any increase in compensation especially for people with disabilities is generally a good thing. The same applies to unfair property or income censorships. The fee for people with disabilities serves to help at least in the small part to equalize opportunities and conditions in everyday life. In that sense, the fact that disability depends neither on how much you have or how much you do not have or how much you earn. Life is hard, so if we look at the fee as an instrument of equating the initial positions that we all have in society, then it really doesn't depend on anything but the fact that you're a person with disabilities. But for serious reform, not enough cosmetics on one or even more laws, we need to change the basic idea when it comes to protecting children. For example. that the biological family is always the best priority should be given to the rights of the child in relation to the right to parenting. We need to simplify adoption and hundreds of such essential procedures. It won't solve the academy, or the departments, or the commission without the right content, and I'm not saying that it's all necessarily a bad thing, but it's not enough form to fix the content. In Croatia, therefore, there are about 1,000 employees of social workers in social care centres, and at the same time around 600,000 users are covered by various measures. Just those two numbers and smart enough. The consensus at the level of global social care experts is that it would be ideal for a social worker to have no more than 15 cases, the EU's recommendation is to make it about 50 cases, but where are we in Croatia? In Croatia, every social worker has up to 200 cases at once, although according to our regulations, not according to what I have stated, there should be no more than 65 in the department for children, young people and family who are now becoming something else and 130 in the adult department. This is totally unsustainable, and when we start from that, it is clear that the system cannot function in this way, and that is not a word of it. In addition, experts in the welfare system are constantly warning that they are doing more time in paperwork than people. Most often they don't even have a separate room to talk to individuals or families or, say, some small, modest cars that could be walking around the field unhindered. The Social Care Act is unfortunately a disappointment in its final version, primarily because in our opinion it does not deal with the essentials, does not address those basic and burning problems of the social care system, there is too much form, surface laxation, and too little entry into the core of the problem. But even more disappointment is the Household Act. Although the country's constitutional court has made a decision in which it is clearly stated that abandoning the same-sex partners from the right to foster care is unconstitutional. In the first reading, and now in the second reading, the Ministry is drawn up that the Constitutional Court did not order an amendment to the law but that decisions must respect it, although the court directly stated that the provision of the law is such that it produces counter-constitutional effects and even more important from the ministry that in reality the court's decision is respected and such an explanation given in the first reading, and now unfortunately we have it in this second. So, in conclusion, we still believe that this is a wrong decision and that on the basis of how the Constitutional Court has formulated its decision, the whole thing should be clearly defined by this law because the ministry claims that the Constitutional Court has ordered interpretation of laws that would involve the same-sex partners is one thing, and that reality and practice is one whole other pair of sleeves. For years, public and not public people have been strained by courts, and the government, when it fits the trumpets of constitutional court decisions and there is no debate about them even when it misrepresents them, and when it does not suit them then they do not have the courage, will not or will not, have no other explanation for such a firm refusal by the government to include same-sex couples in foster parents except that it wants to cloud, hide and make its application more difficult because, with all due respect, the minister's instructions are not a legal provision, it is neither near. The foster care system is in a major crisis, the foster home has too little, and the number keeps falling. At the same time, we rule out a whole group from that job for some reasons that are not clear to me at all, some to God's worldview, courting someone or something. We don't want to blame anyone or anything, so what does that mean to that child who needs to be fostered, and there's no one to do that. Despite the constitutional court's decision, you do not give in and despite being asked by your attorney for children, the lawyer for gender equality and a whole series of citizens and associations. So it's absolutely clear that we at the Club of the Centre and GLAS can't support it and we can't stand behind these proposals. If you want to have a reform then have a reform. Let the reform speak for the benefit of users and let's see how these reforms will be implemented. I'm going back to the Social Services Act. It's not a reform that you have some new bodies, it's not a reform to introduce a commission that nobody knows how and what they're going to do, it's a reform to see what benefits users will have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84529	Now we're going to stop at this point a little bit, and as scheduled in one hour, since it's one hour we're going to go to the point of view. Thank you very much. We will now return to the point and now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the respected representative Vlasic Iljkic-Maric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84531	Thank you. The esteemed president, a respected minister or co-worker, is not present with us. After the debate in our first reading, the final proposal for a new Social Care Act is the reform package, which is essentially the same as previously seen in that organisational sense. Compared to the increase in fees, you increased the personal disability and abolished the fee price and allowed the personal disability to be received to all those who found that 4th degree of damage, instead of 1,500 kuna, the personal disability would now be 1,750 kuna. We hope that this is a transitional period until the adoption of an Inclusive Supplement Act, which has been announced for years, which should provide compensation for persons with disabilities in view of the percentage of damages in order for them to receive greater compensation with greater damage, which would allow them to ensure that they are inaccessible due to their health conditions in which they are. Since indeed, the personal disability has now become a right without any obstacles in terms of property and income, and the only condition of the 4th degree of damage is no longer understood, or we are asking even less for this right to the welfare system, and we continue to insist that this right, as well as an allowance for assistance and care, is detached from the welfare system so that users or social workers can deal with people and their problems, and not with the administration. We also believe that if a person is placed in a home of social care and has the right to a personal disability, such as a person on private accommodation that they should not be entitled to compensation for the threatened buyer of energy because the person is no longer in his home. In this respect, it is necessary to amend the regulation on the monthly amount of compensation for the threatened buyer of energy. Our proposal is also to increase the compensation for the threatened buyer of energy to 300 kuna and to extend the user group to all persons with disabilities in the context of this law, and these are still left to users of compensation for assistance and care, but this concerns amending the regulation, not amending this Social Care Act. There is no doubt as to why you left the reception condition only in the case of compensation for assistance and care in a reduced range, if the property or income condition is not for a personal disability. For the full range, it's also not the level of income, it's the only property. In this, there is no social justice, that those with the lowest income of 1250 kuna per single person, i.e. 1000 kuna per family member, do not have the right to an allowance for assistance and care. We therefore propose, through the amendments, that income and property pricing be abolished for aid and care, and that the conditions for all persons with disabilities be leveled and that their right depends exclusively on the state of health, or the degree of disability. Furthermore, the proposal states that you have extended the circle of users of compensation for assistance and care for persons who have established a fourth degree of damage to functional skills, and that you are making sure that a person who does not exercise the right to a personal disability can now be entitled to an allowance for assistance and care. This vague provision, which has confused users and law enforcement users, should be deleted because we do not know what users are, which users would be, and on the board yesterday we had the opportunity to hear that it was a mistake the minister did not want to explain very clearly. Against this proposal for a law on social care and a reform package, as we have already spoken before, the Faculty of Law, the study centre of social work, chambers and all united professions, because the organisation of the abolition in a way that the Centres for Social Care are abolished, that one roof institution of the Croatian Institute for Social Work will not contribute to better services for users. The task force, as we had the opportunity to discuss this before, did not agree and did not bring this kind of reform package. She may have agreed on parts related to compensation, the introduction of certain new rights, social mentorship and so on, but not the way social care is organised. You mention the National Council for the Development of Social Policy that it has actually adopted these reform provisions, but we warn that they are not reformers, but a body that is advisory, which, in my opinion and in our opinion, is really important for strengthening inter-resorship cooperation but not as holders of social care activities. While you are involved in the makeup and invention of central institutions and fully marginalise the local possibilities of organising knowingly go against decentralisation of services. You may not know it, but as a reason for family eviction, especially families with children with developmental difficulties is the child’s desire or parents to provide better health care for their child and elsewhere look for all those services that strengthen abilities and provide early intervention, which are not available here. And instead of this focus of reform being the final awareness of the concern for citizens and the availability of services you are missing the opportunity now and dealing with cosmetic corrections and centralised that pleases and actually dehumanises the entire system. Related to the inaccessibility of the service is also a harmful organisation, for example, of municipal courts, where individual counties, and there is my Požeko-Slavon County and the county from which the minister comes who will lose his conduct on family matters. The resolution ministry will remove courts from users and professional workers with its proposals. So we see that there's nothing from the family courts, and the specialization of the subject of domestic violence has obviously given up. I cited this as an example, because the focus of these changes focused on fees, and we don't mention services much and especially regarding services to victims of domestic violence. It is more clear that the government is not thinking about the individual and individual needs of citizens, but only about maintaining the system. In response to our proposals in the first reading on the transfer of personal disability and allowance for help and care, you say that you have a prepared solution through the Included Supplement Act, but not at this stage. When exactly? Why the chance to do something completely and united when it's done? You have now had a chance if it is a matter of reform to disburse the real system and give the opportunity to professionals to do their job for which they were educated. Unfortunately for all missed opportunities in Croatia, this is what we are witnessing today. Every reform is done on the surface. It's a reflection of today's demographic image of the country. You are proposing further to the Board of Appeals as if so far there has been no possibility of making complaints about the work of the workers. All today's complaints were answered by the Ministers, or the Ministry. Now you expect that any complaints from which it is at this point may be dealt with in the Ministry over 2000 with a questionable way of working you want it to be handled by a commission where you don't even know which way and what it will deal with. And also which powers they will have related to data protection. Now it means users not only will sign the consent for their data, to provide data to some of the social care centres now, but also to the commission where they will give consent that tomorrow all their data will be someone in the commission who we don't even know what it will look like, which will deal with determining and actually reading everything that's confidential there. Introducing instructions that in some cases should replace solutions to how much legal protection it is, if you offer users instead of making a solution to the manual. And what about those users whose rights are not granted, they don't have the possibility of a complaint? With this reform, you weaken the professional chambers, destroy the independence of the work of the chambers and establish an academy that will carry out professional training under the supervision and organisation of the ministry. In the last debate, we got the impression that you're going to give up closing up family homes after all, and now we see that you've joined a new organization, that these are homes that are actually no one really clear to us in what way all these services of care for adults will look like. Of the family institutions, therefore, we have one uncertainty, and in line with European policies we are developing an organised housing and small living community for years, as the future actually cares for older and powerless. It is now 7,000 people who are located in the homes of the family and which this information has come to, and this is the population that in its... and uncertainty about age, certainly not yet need additional stress that this may also occur from the environment they are familiar with and in which they have secured accommodation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, the separation or merger of family centres over the last 10 years has not led to recognition of work or directed development and we do not believe that even now separation will contribute to a certain importance in the local community. It will only bring meaning if we finally interdeparturely connect to the health and education system, but it actually needs to be ensured by legal proposals, not handing over everything to a case. This is an excellent topic, for example, for the National Council for the Development of Social Policy, which can deal with such topics and improve inter-resorship cooperation, because there are indeed many other and overall governments who can only improve inter-resorship cooperation. According to data on foster care 2 277 children were placed in a foster home, these are data from December 2020, because we don't really have data for the past year. Changes in the Household Act and increased compensation will not result in additional interest in foster care, we need to see if the reduction and trend of interest in foster care is smaller in the environments where traditional foster care has been well developed, for example, in Novi Gradišca, then the Ministry should be well analyzed for what is happening on the ground and prepare the measures that will result. We have burning problems in the system and we believe that that system and this reform do not solve absolutely any problems, which are growing with regard to all the difficulties that our citizens are now facing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84532	Thank you. A respected representative, Maric, will continue on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84533	Thank you very much. So, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I'm going to talk about the so-called SDP. chamber laws, which, of course, are part of the social care law package, psychotherapy activity, psychological activity, social work activity, socio-pedagogical activity and educational-rehabilitation activity. When we look at all these laws, we see that what's new, it's actually in line with all five laws, it's a criminal and legal sanction related to domestic violence. In my previous reading, I have, in fact, brought together all these laws an objection that the applicant did not appreciate, that this is about the impact on the independence of the chamber of regulated professions, that the chambers are restricted independently from finance, and that the ministry can block work and every so much deny consent, and related to the regulation of giving the Ministry's prior consent to the general acts of the chamber. The ministry may block the work of the chamber and deny consent or resolve the president of the chamber whose number of mandates, in addition, is limited to 2. So that opinion was supported, not only by our reading but also by the opinion of the chambers that they delivered to us. The ministry argues that the provisions in this bill do not restrict freedom of association or independence of the chamber, do not affect their freedom of association, do not affect their work, promote and protect the field of work and educational and other rehabilitators, as well as all other professions. They also argue that the previous consent of the Ministry does not affect membership either, i.e., the work itself, and they claim that it is important to motivate the members to join the chambers and participate in the work because, according to their explanation, the work in the assembly is part of a smaller part of the members who make decisions for the majority of the members present and, as a result, the Proposer says that it is precisely why the ministry's consent as some control mechanism is sought to protect members from excessive burdens on non-taxable duties. So, however, the Ministry leaves no independence to the chamber, and neither is it in the chamber, nor is it in the interest of the chamber to have too little membership, to impose too much membership, too much membership, etc., therefore, this explanation of the Ministry is not acceptable to us. Now about this final bill, and here we are, heard yesterday on the board. The second opinion of the chambers is that these proposals of chamber laws violate the autonomy of professional organisations, i.e. lead to an unequal position against the competent ministry, other chambers in the Republic of Croatia because there are differences compared to other professional chambers, such as, here, our Croatian medical chamber. Some norms also question sustainability and the very ability to exercise public authority, as well as the stability of bodies, leadership, etc. It also highlights the hyperregulatory of the Ministry of Chambers, but what I mentioned about membership fees, a work plan that is given to previous consent every year, a financial report, etc., in fact, by doing so, the Ministry becomes a co-creator of the work and activities of chambers. And then yesterday I ask on the board, that, behold, the representatives of the motion respond to these re-instructions and us and the chambers themselves, but we have not received any valid explanation. Actually, I'm out of the woods, you're out of the way. It would also point out that we will submit the 30-day amendments in which the ministry is obliged to send its opinion or consent to acts on which the chamber must seek the consent of the ministry. Why? Because those amendments would ensure that the granting of consent and the opinion of the ministry is adopted within a reasonable period of 30 days. In the event that the deadline is not defined due to the slowness of the administration, the chambers would be disabled in regular work by collecting membership fees etc. Someone here today set an example that it took 18 months for the ministry's resolution to appear on a certain act. So we find that it is unacceptable, and that is why I am stressing, the minister has arrived, we will ask that the deadline be set on all of these instruments that need the ministry's consent within 30 days. There's been a lot of controversy about the psychotherapy activity. In this final proposal, the law is amended as follows: 6th century 1 which says that a psychotherapist will be recognised the right to perform psychotherapy if he has completed a pre-graduate specialist and graduate professional study or an integrated undergraduate and graduate university study or a specialist degree in professional studies limited in the field of basic medical science, clinical science, public health and health care, psychology, social activities and educational rehabilitation sciences, pedagogy, logopedia in the Republic of Croatia, or has been recognised as an international professional qualification for performing a regulated profession of psychotherapist in the Republic. Article 3 has also been expelled that it must have the necessary education in the field of pedestals and psychotherapy. The article related to pedestals remains an advisory therapist. And now this change has come upon the great disdain of the Croatian Chamber of Psychotherapists and the Association of Psychotherapeutic Associations of Croatia who have actually spoken to many of us so that we have considered in detail everything they have written, we have submitted certain amendments because namely alliances or psychotherapists' associations say that in art. 3. The final proposal of the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy calls, this final proposal, on the European Association of Psychotherapists, and in fact, according to this new article. 6th century 1st is undermined by the standards of that same association. It is thus defined that total psychotherapy must last at least 7 g. of which the first 3rd year in previous university education in pre-graduate studies, and thereafter a minimum of 4g. Specialized psychotherapy education and then the question arises what about those who have really passed all that education that recognises their status as psychotherapist outside Croatia, and in fact will not be able to be recognised in the Republic of Croatia because of these new restrictions. There are no items that would be regulated retrogradely and also no transitional provisions are provided for. It also raises the question of what with those who have completed certain undergraduate studies that do not belong to this category according to this new final bill, they have passed all valid education, here in case they have not yet entered the chamber or the psychotherapist's directory, and what about them now, means the effort of your players in vain, so what about all these people? The chamber also states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in fact, when it needs highly qualified experts, writes off over 150 highly educated experts in the field of psychotherapy, and then they actually suggest that the existing item from the first reading be returned, at least to social and humanistic areas. So, since we have made more amendments that we have submitted, or we will hand in hope that you will accept some of that, but this is the form of a final draft of the chamber law that we cannot support so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84534	The next Club of Representatives will be that green-left bloc, and time will be shared by the respected representatives of Urša Raukar Gamulin and the respected representative Bencic. First honorary representative of Ursha Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84535	Thank you, sir.../The speaker has been turned off.... This is the first point of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that binds us all in our work and action so that the parliamentary representatives of the Republic of Croatia, of course, and the holders of the executive government of the prime minister, minister and all other officials. In the first reading of this set of laws that make up the reform of the social care system, we warned of the fact that the proposal disagrees with neither the profession nor the academic community, nor the users. All public funds in the media and public debate, and finally here in the assembly, have been warned of the main principle problem of this proposal, too much centralisation rather than the necessary and necessary decentralisation. Real and necessary decentralisation is necessary to respond successfully and timelyly to the real needs of people, avoid unnecessary administration and flexible social services. Life is extremely unpredictable, we'll all agree on that. New social risks appear on a daily basis, requiring a quick and appropriate response. Each environment has its own specificities, and so are the problems faced by individuals and families of vulnerable groups and many other social groups specific and different from one local community to another, and it is impossible to see all specific needs of certain communities from Zagreb. The answers to these and many other challenges should be sought at lower levels of government at local and regional level. This bill lists the local level, but unfortunately only formally because each article in the law is the exact opposite effect, which is complete centralised. The clear intention of strict standardisation of all services and rights for all users is shown no matter where they live. Unfortunately, this is a characteristic of a centralised approach that needs to be evened and provided with unnecessary balance. Such a system does not take into account the real needs of users to whom services and rights should be created but rather rules according to their own criteria, and users should probably adapt to that. Al precisely the user perspective is the strongest argument for successful social policy and this concept is an integral part of all phases of social service planning and rights in all advanced countries. Such an approach that completely ignores the real needs of users although, of course, it cites them as the main objective of these changes has been condemned both in the short and long term, unfortunately to failure. In addition to the clear centralisation of the system, the proposal is to abolish the legal personality of the social care centre for which this proposal provides for action within the framework of the single Croatian Institute for Social Labour, which means most directly the Ministry itself. The model of a single family centre at national level is also foreseen. The roles of the institute and the family centre are bureaucratic and represent only the distribution of jobs and tasks within the ministry itself. And social care centres as the most important element of social care as in others and all other existing institutions really require full transformation, but instead of fully transforming and modernising business processes, approach is to eliminate any autonomy of professional work. Social care centres should be constantly accessible and accessible to citizens in the environment in which they live, linked to the local community, associated with civil society organisations and be the holders of the social security network. Today, the public is generally seen as bureaucratic units precisely because they are formally separated from other stakeholders in the community in which they operate. Users experience them as a necessary evil in achieving some minimum living conditions and representatives of state control and surveillance. The existing good informal connections of centre workers with other stakeholders cannot unfortunately overcome that distance from real life in the community. With this stronger connection with the ministry, the distance will unfortunately increase further. A completely different model of social care services is needed on the ground with all possible partners in providing social services. There is a particularly important connection with the civil sector. We repeat, the management of these services should be at lower levels of government, and national levels should be subject to the rules to be followed and to exercise genuine supervision in their implementation. True decentralisation is needed through the transfer of powers and financial opportunities to lower levels of government. Social capital and funds of local communities associated with the opportunities provided by national level to citizens in this environment can provide greater and stronger social security and better quality social services. Unfortunately, however, there is simply no such thing as this bill and this proposal for this reform. As from some spite, Minister Aladrovic and the government of the Republic of Croatia have disobeyed all appeals, public letters, reactions, suggestions, public debates and sent an identical proposal to another reading. The only newspaper is the elimination of property censorship and the increase of personal disability by 250 kuna, so to 1,750 kuna, which, of course, I welcome, of course. However, we cannot take the impression that this was premeditated in order to re-present the government as socially sensitive and re-responsible, but also to try to distract attention from the main problem, which is simply a failed concept of reform which is unfortunately a dead letter on paper for this important welfare system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84536	It will continue on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, respected representative Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84537	I thank the chairman. I'll put my glasses on. We'll do it this way. So, in this part of our exposure, I'd like to remind you of the 20th. History of reform of the social care system in Croatia, 20. So, in particular, I want to stress how much money is invested in everything so-called. the reform of the social care system so far and that we have not heard a single word from the proposings and in particular from you ministers on the evaluations of these investments in the welfare system today. So from my presentation, you'll see that we've already spent billions, billions in technical assistance, information, different other processes in order to reform the social care system, now we're completely changing direction, and we haven't heard a single explanation that would come from the evaluation of all these processes why are we changing that direction now? Here's what we're going to start with, the Department of Health and Social Welfare in 2004. Got a loan from the World Bank of 40 million dollars. The money was intended for full reform of the social care system, so from investment in the construction of new construction works in existing buildings and equipment, to consulting services, education of civil servants and ultimately, information of the system, or computer networking of all institutions in the country. However, as it usually happens with HDZ governments, an about great idea of information, it has turned into a classic political-corruption scandal. Until 2012 or until the change of government, citizens did not even know how these 40 million dollars were spent and where this information system was, in 2012 to realize that the money was spent, that the information system did not exist, or that the existing centres and institutions had not been networked and a single database was not created, which was therefore the task within that so-called so-called ". information. The money was spent, the citizens were repaying the credit, and the system wasn't working. What, ministers, were the results of the social care reform that we invested $40 million in? I think that citizens who have returned that 40 million dollars have the right to know what they have spent on and how the effects of this reform have resulted, i.e. how they are seen and how they reflect in your proposal for reform. But it's best for you to forget that 40 million. But let's move on. In 2014, the World Bank approves a new loan to Croatia, amounting to 70m euros this time for a project to modernise the social protection system aimed at improving the efficiency, efficiency of social assistance and services to the most vulnerable groups of citizens, and that money was, of course, spent, but we have not seen the evaluation of this project nor has the evaluation found itself in the explanation of Minister Aladrovic, why and how this reform is based on the results of the investments of these 70m euros. Maybe it's best if we forget the 70 million, the citizens will return them and return them. In the IPA programme, effective human potentials in the 2007/2013 perspective. We got over 100 million euros this time, so this is not a loan, we got this as a gift, 100 million euros for the issue of social inclusion, of which is precisely for this.../incomprehensible/... social inclusion and integration of people in an unfavourable position programmed 47 million euros, and for technical assistance another 13 million euros. To explain to those who do not know, we use technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of the administration to implement those reforms for which we have received the money. The effects of these investments in the social care system and the expansion of the social services network have also not been found in the bases for this so-called. reform. Maybe it's best if we forget that 60 million euros too. In the financial perspective of 2014/20. We're getting more money for reforming the welfare system. We're moving on. So we get for different social inclusion programmes 1.4 billion euros this time. Now we're no longer millions, now we're just billions. Of that, out of those 1.4 billion, 340 million euros was programmed precisely for social services in the community, and 179 million were even received for so-called. A smart administration, therefore, for investment in the capacity of the state administration to deliver services to citizens. Nor did we get here before this reform, in the medium term, at least in the medium term because I know you can't yet have a final, evaluation of the programme of effective human potentials in 2014/20. Nor have you explained to us in any way that investments worth more than 1.4 billion euros, euros, resulted in something and reflected in this reform. We don't know that. So let's forget about that 1.4 or 1.6, as we program it, billions of euros. Whom we've already spent those dollars on, we've also spent the loans on, the second loan from the World Bank, so what's a billion here or there now? I'm not saying that this billion did not have an effect on the development of social services, I'm interested in how we base this reform on the results of these investments because I think that citizens and we as parliamentarians, so I guess we have the right to know how these money was spent, how we build on them a further system. Eh, but what's going on in that commercial, of course, isn't all. There's this one, the sugar at the end. In addition, Croatia paid the World Bank in 2017 32 million kuna for the development of analytical bases for the development of Croatia's '20-'30 strategy. So that's just for the sake of pure intelligence analytical and recommendations where we should go with the welfare system. So one of these analytical bases is called the regional availability of social services in Croatia. What are the recommendations from that background? So, I'm saying again, 32 million we paid for it, I guess we should use it, right? Or to say we're not happy with those bases and bring them back and ask for their money back. So what do the recommendations say? They say it is necessary to strengthen vertical and horizontal coordination in the planning of social services. Therefore, in order to better assess the needs and plans of a uniform regional development of social services, the ministry should designate a service and a person associated with the county welfare departments, and the counties should determine the contact of persons to cooperate with the central level. So a stronger vertical integration between the regional level and the ministry is required. They also say that the creation of a Joint Memorandum of Social Inclusion, if you remember, of the one once popular and well-rated, as an example of good practice, JIM, therefore requires stronger cooperation between national, regional and local levels, and that is what the World Bank says, that as an example of good practice, we should continue both in the next period and strengthen the actual system of coordination of these bodies. In doing so, they also say that the planning of a social care system should be based on an assessment of the real needs of users at local level, and then points out that further decentralisation is important, decentralisation of functions that must be monitored by appropriate financial and professional capacities. So, besides some more technical stuff, what else does the World Bank recommend here? She says continued training of professionals as an investment for the quality of the entire system is necessary and says, primarily should be invested in the education of social care centre staff because they are responsible for deciding on the rights of users and available in the area of the state. The research on child poverty has confirmed a very irreplaceable role, now watch out for who, the welfare center at local level. Just theirs, especially in working with the population living on unfavourable social opportunities, therefore the authors recommend, hear this now, that social care centres should be kept and strengthened by ensuring appropriate working conditions or by strengthening their ability to truly co-ordinators of all social services in the local community, both by informing of available services and by encouraging and developing them. And this reform deprives them of the basics of cooperation, for example, the project, they don't even have legal personality. They don't even have legal personality. 32 million kuna for advice you literally threw away and did the opposite. They did the opposite. It goes on, the World Bank for 32 million kuna, thank them for this wonderful advice that you have also listened to, ensure the continuity of the reforms that have been launched. It is important to note that the direction of modernisation of social services and agreed priorities, therefore decentralisation and deinstitutionalisation, should not be changed with changes in political power. Here, wonderful advice we received, relatively cheap because building a system of quality services requires continuity and commitment, education and monitoring of service providers, to ensure the supply of social services. What else does the World Bank say? They also say that improved social services systems and their equal regional availability require an accurate assessment of available resources and a clear set of priorities to avoid abandonment of the objectives set. These challenges are also being warned by the authors of the '20/'30 document Europe. which say, when ambitious goals are sought to achieve limited resources and poorly implemented mechanisms, it is a recipe for disappointment. We also received the recipe for disappointment in these 7 proposals, so-called social care reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84538	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, the next time will be shared by a respected representative and vice president of this House Davorko Vidovic, but looks like the first one will be spoken by a respected representative of Renata Sablar-Dračevac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84539	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable ministers with a co-worker. My colleagues and fellow Parliamentarians. Croatia is defined by the Constitution as a social state, and each country is as social, quality and civilized as it cares about its weakest members of society. Today, we have a set of laws that unfortunately did not reach consensus. Of course, we commend the rise in the level of compensation, but they should be kept in line because we are threatened with serious inflation that will swallow this increase very quickly. The growth in compensation will certainly be enjoyed by a large number of our citizens, i.e. users in this case. We break over our knees something that is weak and unprotected in its own nature. In their first reading, MPs pointed to a number of bad parts of this law, the establishment of the Croatian Institute for Social Labour, Family Centres, the Academy of Social Care, the termination of the legal personality of the social care centre, the establishment of a special Board of Appeals, the termination of family homes that the promoter did not accept because they were contrary to the very direction of the proposed law. We're talking to chambers, associations, lawyers for disabled people, attorney general, attorney general, but the promoter is inexcusable. We have long waited for this law in the hope that services dealing with our socially endangered citizens will finally be relieved of the additional administrative part of the people who should devote themselves to working with these citizens. What do we get? We are getting a centralized system, an organisational reconstruction of the social care system, first of all, the establishment of the Croatian Institute for Social Labour, with 21 branches and a facility, but also with the establishment of the Academy of Social Welfare. A new Board of Decision on the founding of complaints, which may not be so badly imagined, is being established, but you keep saying that you want to reduce the number of employees in the system, and this menu thinks that only those who work directly with users will be reduced. Centralisation of the system does not contribute to their openness to citizens and availability will be reduced. The system should be flexible, and professional workers relieved of unnecessary jobs that slowed down their efficiency. Professional associations also ask themselves the question of the success of the overall reform, or consider that since there will be no one to implement this reform, whether this reform will actually succeed or what will happen to this reform. In this reform, we will do our own reforms in the next six months, and we will not do anything at all, get involved with our users. So, what are they saying? So at the very session of the Committee on Health and Social Policy from the Association of Social Workers, the president said we want the system, that the system becomes flexible and efficient, which will be recognised as an auxiliary activity, not a problematic system. The structure of the system needs to be improved, the legal personality of the welfare centre is lost and the system will remain clogged and will not be able to carry out its social task in a quality and successful way. In the Social Care Act, there are no rules laying down the exact competences of experts to run the system. The social care system is not based on insurance such as pension or health insurance but is concerned by over half a million citizens of this country. Our question is how the Resorient Ministry thinks this kind of reform will work if they don't get the support of the experts and all the stakeholders who need to be the bearers of this reform' I must admit that I also find this impact on the chambers of expertise very interesting. The bill is completely restricted by their Czech associations. The ministry will determine membership fees, the ministry determines a work plan for next year, the ministry interferes even in financial reports that have been regulated otherwise. The congregations of these chambers of expertise lose every importance and purpose, and I'm afraid this could be the end of all chambers because other ministers might think that this is how they regulate the work of the unscathed chambers. The committee was also attended by an amendment by the Advocate General, the Attorney General and the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities. After 2. promises that always, those promises would always follow us after some terrible traumatic event, then we'd be dealing with social care for a few days, and then we'd forget about it. We get a law without consensus that breaks everything over our knees. Once again, we will be trying rabbits, and the employees will be dealing with the reconstruction, not the users, and it doesn't matter whether the cat is black or white, it's important to hunt mice, and the function of social care is to deal with ours, with our citizens, or with our users. In addition, we received interesting comments from the ruling committee. They ask that they trust us and give them time to see how good it is. One of the ministry's representatives also said, saying that all the changes that are being asked, there were a lot of chamber-related stakeholders, so there's a chamber of nurses and technicians, a chamber of doctors who stood in defense of their chambermates, on the question why they brought it, why they suggest such a thing is said that all of this was brought to the chamber in the best of intentions, and we all know that the path to hell is filled with the best intentions. The profession recommends, this law will experience a complete fiasco and it would be good to withdraw from the procedure and make a consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84540	Now, the respected vice president of the assembly and representative Davorko Vidovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84541	A lot has been said today that it wouldn't be a bad accept, even though I'm afraid things have already moved so far with this package that there's little that can be changed. However, since we as advocates do not remain God knows what but to warn, speak and have some satisfaction that it may be somewhere and recorded let me say a few words on behalf of my colleagues and colleagues from the Social Democrats Club about what and how I see in fact this package, a package of laws no longer entering into the details of what has been brought here. Our colleague Bencic reminded us from 2004 to today how much money has been spent, how many big initiatives, demands and attempts to make one abandoned system, one of the least developed public policies of the Republic of Croatia reform, to fix and colleagues of Hrelja, saying that disputing this concept means resisting or resisting reforms, is simply not true. On the contrary, this system requires a very serious reform, and I personally have frustration and I am very wrong that I did not have the opportunity to implement as a minister and this reform that was prepared by top international and domestic experts on carefully designed analyses of what needs and clearly defined goals and the whole concept was prepared in 2004, no one even looked at it but ended up somewhere in the trash and then we started to get these solutions that we have the opportunity to watch these 20 or 15-16s. and I do not, unfortunately, exclude from that period the period when the SDP was in a position to create a serious, serious reform project on these issues. So this is not what I'm saying as a positioner who wants something to, this simply, be against. This is about the whole model, the whole concept of reform actually being set up so that I don't understand what the goals are and what they're trying to achieve with these proposed laws. Maybe to come from something that might have remained in the shadows, and I see as a great social danger. I will say about these chamber laws, I see a great danger because I think that they will largely contribute to the destruction of the dignity of the profession and that it will largely mean I would say one bureaucratic attack on people who know and that it will contribute to what appears somewhere as a very dangerous phenomenon in Croatian society, which is that those who do not know more than those who know. Such ignoring of professions, knowledge, professions, eliminating the autonomy of professions, which are in fact entitled to expertise and that expertise is guaranteed by law. I see it as a terrible problem. This is about psychologists, social workers. I enjoyed it when we were in 2000. created the first social workers' association, when a doctoral study was opened for social policy, when that profession was a profession, we now have a reverse process. We're going to make professionally a semi-professional, false profession. If there is no expertise and there is no monopoly on expertise by experts we are left to bureaucratic manipulation of facts rather than respecting what the profession and knowledge recognize and this applies to all these chambers. They become hostages and these professionals and these experts become the hostages of our clerks. Let no one blame me for an expert has, of course, in the state administration, but I need to think, I'm warning you of this very dangerous, very dangerous alignment of profession and knowledge. This brings us to these anti-vaxers that we have, the equilibries, to this simply spreading the spines of ignorance and shelling the making of a solution, especially when it comes to running a country that is completely unacceptable. What appears to me in this bill of law, Mr. Minister, may not be your only problem as a resolute minister. I see a much deeper problem that Croatia as a state, as a country has not actually built a system, a system of values, or we have defined long-term goals that would be generally accepted by most citizens in this country regardless of their ideological, political or other definition. There must be a common censorship about these things. If we don't know where we're going, then we don't even know how we're going to figure out some segments, some stages of that getting to what we consider desirable. In this case, it is demonstrated as ignorance and ignorance of what is the meaning of social policy. Social policy is one of the key indicators of society's development. Undeveloped social policy speaks of weaknesses, weaknesses of society and we, if we want Croatia to be truly developed, it means social justice and social cohesion society, then we must also put it as a political agenda among our priorities. What does that mean? In particular, this means to combat poverty, to ensure equal opportunities for people with disabilities, to ensure decent ageing for people of older age, to ensure equal application of all social rights to all citizens, and those written in international documents and in our regulations. These should be some goals, and there are no more of these or those left or right. Unfortunately, in this bill, I don't recognize, I don't recognize, I don't recognize, I don't see the goal that we're actually going to. We've got high-level people, we've got a model of social assistance or social care that's stegmatizing people, and in principle, the state is acting like a 30-year-old, I'm not excluding anyone, 30-year-old. behaves in such a way that this, in fact, behaves in a passive way, that it acts as a social caritative institution that should assign people this and grant charity and rest in charity. It's not the point of social policy. The position from which I speak is the position that social policy must be an investment, that it must be active, that it must be inclusive and inclusive, that the state must appear as a partner and with all stakeholders in the area of that social investment and with civil society, and in particular that it must have the basis of a very social policy in the local, local community. So, it's not unnecessary social spending, it's not about budgetary ballast as it is to read when it comes to the country's budgets, something that needs to be reduced, etc., it's about the development of social capital and it's, it's, it's about investing in people, it's the most difficult job and the most important investment that we can ever do, the model of social policy that I wish I could read here, and it's exactly the opposite of that. It must be developed-oriented, I don't see any developmental component here, it has to be inclusive, it has to be decentralised and it has to be socially innovative. These are the characteristics of modern social policies and systems that are nowhere to be found here. The European Social Model, we have also accepted it through the Lisbon Treaty and through the 2020 Europe Strategy, etc., the European Pillar of Social Rights recognises these values and we have nominally accepted them, but they are not here. Let me also say that Croatia singles out about 20% of its GDP for social protection, which is about 7% for somewhere, 6.8% less than the EU average, and it certainly opens up and gives a big space if we really think this is important, a big space to say again through this investment, not to provide our most important goals and to establish a model that will ensure a uncompromising fight against poverty, which we do not see here, which will modernise the social care system instead of revising it in this way and social care centres that, as I would say, are tickets that are recognized as the channel that most often communicate with their country's most vulnerable, that it loses its subjectivity, and that experts working in that system are turning into tent officials who, it can't be a model of how the Pension Insurance Institute works. It can't be a model how they function. I don't know banks or anyone else who delivers associations. It is a living contact with living people, with specific problems and it must be specific in the Police Centre where there is, for example, no Roma population, it will be different in Zagreb in the Lower City, Sesvedi or elsewhere. We don't have a modern family policy, we don't have a population policy, we don't have a youth policy, so we don't provide what's supposed to make sense of what's supposed to be a job in the social state, and we don't have this resort that you run.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84542	Now, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, the respected representative Dragana Jeckov will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84543	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, the Honorable Minister with her associate. So here we are in the last two months, the second time we've talked about this package of social laws, and I admit that I'm looking forward to talking about it this way because you'll remember that we've mostly talked about the welfare system, it was in the public's focus mostly when there were some big tragedies that were very much affecting the fact that, in fact, they were actually coming out of this system. Therefore, this proposed Law on Social Welfare needs to be seen as an opportunity for the necessary changes, and in all of these situations, all key stakeholders also point out that. The reforms of the system are necessary, but they are effective, which are generally demanding and necessary to design and prescribe adequate, adequate legislative proposals that will ensure that they are actually implemented. The profession has told these legal proposals, or a good part of the profession, through public debate or media space negatively and critically, which are actually people who will apply this law, and I believe that a number of proposals presented in the first reading should still be taken into account between the two readings. Why? Well, it is known that a higher degree of consensus is a chance of successful reform, i.e. a real, long-term and functional improvement of the system. At no time should we ignore the primary and only real goal of passing this set of laws, which is to improve the living conditions of the most vulnerable groups of our society, everything else is secondary. The only thing that matters is that the quality of services provided to end-users rises to a higher level, and in which way this will happen sometimes is less important. I continue to think that the needs of users in certain regions of Croatia are different, so we can talk about different needs in urban and rural areas and different needs, for example in Istria and in eastern Slavonia, and therefore the activities of social care centres differ. That is why I am concerned that this kind of centralised that is proposed will not lead to an overly uniform model because it would produce problems in practice. Also because of the current situation in which we are located, it is extremely important that the quality of services provided by centres has progress, and this will be possible if employees are trained and trained professionally and if the number of employees is increased, and that is all in this legislative proposal. I must commend the increase in the amount because any increase in compensation should result in a reduction in the number of those in severe material deprivation. These increases are certainly not the final solution to the problem, but one step towards solving the problem should take advantage of any possible opportunity to increase the amount. It should also be commended for the support of persons who have initiated a breakup or other proceedings related to life-long and life-restraint contracts, the identification of young people who have grown up without parental care and a significant increase in criminal penalties for social service providers to older persons who violate the law. It is indisputable that the most opposition has prompted proposals to abolish the work of existing family homes on the first day of 2027, and to abolish the social care centres or reduce their competences. The bill states that already established family homes continue to provide social services as a family home by the end of 2026 and will then continue to work as trades, limited-responsibility societies or institutions. A few words about the Household Act. The current Household Act has shown some shortcomings during this short period of time, and when it comes to such a responsible, noble and human call, such foster care has no room for disadvantages, as every lack causes severe and far-reaching consequences. Amendments to the Household Act intend to improve the conditions of care mostly for children without adequate parental care. Unfortunately, all the years of efforts to strengthen the foster home remained unsuccessful, the more the number of foster parents fell, and the more reason for that is certain. We have heard that up to 42% of supplies are increased for children depending on their age and up to 25% for adults. Thus, traditional foster parents, and most of them, instead of the current 830 benefits per child, will receive 1,350 kuna per month, and between 2,525 and 2,850 allowances for each child depending on the child's age. For professional foster parents, benefits grow from 15% to 60%. Specialized foster care for children will range from 4,500 to 7,500 kuna and for the standard foster care of 4,000 kunas instead of the current 2,500. It is good that specialized foster care will be flexible, so it will be able to be performed by people with medium professional training. For fostering children with behavioral problems or health intellectual difficulties under current conditions was not of great interest, and the fees would now amount to between 4 and 7,500 kuna per child. As I said at the outset, reforms are undeniably necessary because our system obviously has some problems and the aim of the reform should be to actually minimise these problems. We all need to be aware that this set of laws will not be like a magic wand to solve the problems of the system, but if you could at least reduce them, you would have done a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84544	The next Club of Representatives will be that of HNS, HSU and independent representatives, and will speak to the honourable representative of Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84545	Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates. So we have a whole package of laws that regulates and newly regulates the social care system and what I have to say and I have said many times already from this pay phone that it is a one-off system that does not meet the needs of Croatian society, which has problems among young people, but also has problems with the rapid ageing of this society. So it can be estimated that this system that is trying to shape these seven laws is more centralized than what we have, which is now existing. What is the guarantee that decentralisation itself is a guarantee that we will have an effective system? So that's how we would have very efficient systems today because since I've known, when I understand something about social care, since I've been hanging out with social workers and other professions, I know it's a decentralised system, but we don't have, we don't have, we don't have an efficient system. You know, I'm taking off a hat from a social worker in the city of Pula who after we changed the price for supplementary health insurance personally called all 600 users of occasional or permanent social assistance to exercise one of their new rights. So, all these people who are employed in the social care system first and fundamentally their characteristics should be love for their loved ones, to people, to those who are weaker, to those who, for any reason, are no longer concerned or unable to care and care for them and to raise their situation to pedestal problems and look for a solution, therefore, builds a more centralized system, but the system is more generous in terms of giving, and it could be, one, a solid compensation for users regardless of how anyone in the system will feel about being neglected or unrecognizable, but the fact is that the whole system exists for whom, for the sake of end-users. For children, for abandoned reasons, for adult sick, for older, old, powerless and all those covered by the beauty of protection in the welfare system. Fair enough, the minister said something here, if you noticed, that this package of laws is the first step to improve the welfare system. What does that mean? So I think anyone who's been here for a while that means going this way, but that certain obstacles on that path or anomalies or problems that we're going to encounter are going to be solved, that this isn't carved into a stone like the last 30 years and has experienced very little, little change than that all of what's going on here is subject to change. This is what we need this flexibility, let's say the commitment to upgrade and the correction of the system should motivate us to monitor the effects of this law and to be all in a position or opposition very active and to point to problems that arise because otherwise this system, as everyone is built, is first built on sound foundations, must be built up and then must be upgraded in accordance with the times and problems that arise. That has not been done so far, and that is why my claim that the system is literally depreciated. Let's go to some specific problems we talked about in our first reading and here. Most of you in this home in the first reading have advocated the staying and survival of family homes more aware that among them there are those who operate very legally, very transparently, that there are those who, with small movements, could therefore do business legally and transparently and that there are those who do dirty business illegally and that for them, the functioning of a family home as a register of profits, not relationships, is a relationship with people. But regardless of the fact, regardless of the lack of inspection supervision, regardless of the behavior of those illegals who did not allow inspection surveillance, who closed the doors, who pretended not to exist etc., no matter what the majority here supported the staying and survival and development of family homes, whatever his name was tomorrow, whatever his name was tomorrow. That little home of 20 or 20 or more people. We've come into a trap here and we've been in it for 18 years and we're misreading it. We called it a family home, and by that name we had false expectations, and then we made wrong judgments, false conclusions, and they were wrongful decisions for me. A family home can be called a family home, but no one has the right to expect a family atmosphere. There's 20 people in there from different families. The name of a family home is because of the economics of a family with its members dealing with accommodation and care for more members. So we jumped into that trap ourselves. I cannot accept that someone professionally said that he expected the creation of a family atmosphere among 20 people, 18 people from different families, different ages, with different worlds, with different life experiences. The family in which they are situated is obliged to balance all these differences, to be decent, to meet their specific requirements, and that is the atmosphere, the atmosphere of the closeness of the people leading the home with the users of the family home. So let's not, let's not run into each other with grades and let's not get one notion, one notion wrong, misread. Me, and I'm gonna do what I normally do, and I'm gonna ask them to bring in a sublegal act within six months, and that we know what we're on about whatever their name is. I don't mind being called family homes, but knowing what's in that story. Of course, I don't mind being an institution with a certain number of users, I don't mind being a private home, let the offer be, the beauty of the offer is very rich and very wide. I stress family homes are after foster care, so those who do precisely because of the social care of the family, their loved ones, and one of their kind of victims are achieving the lowest price of accommodation at this time. We are not a wealthy society that pensioners, not through the social care centre and through their participation, will be able to pay too much money and one so economic institution of accommodation of old and powerless is very much needed. So what we expect from sublegal acts, but also from these laws, is to separate legitimate business and illegal. Don't let God give us information about how illegal he has, and he's got it, he's got it on a worrying level. I will also, and I will explain this in my individual debate, give some amendments to increase penalties, demotivating those who are illegally operating in relation to those who have all the necessary actions that this law requires to possess or enforce. It's also a questionable term for foster care. So it's always about social care, whether it's about children, whether they're adults, whether they're older or powerless, it's always about that. No one is receiving anyone into their home, into their family, he may receive him into his house, into his building, into a separate space. Maybe three foster parents make a deal, so they rent a house, so they're staying inside people who are being visited by a nurse, who's being visited by a doctor, who's being carried around by food. It's a small door equal capacity arrangement 3-4 fosterers is equal capacity as one small family home, but it's not, operating under other conditions, operating on individual contracts with, with these users or possible with their, their children, but it's taking advantage of the uncertainty, of the system. I don't think the Household Act has thought about such things, and I can also tell you that some of the mayors of the municipalities and mayors with whom I have intensely contacted that this is exactly what is happening, and indeed in this system of such foster care, which is indeed illegal people are not only human beings, but only those who organize it experience people of some value and some income. We can't let that happen. We can't let that happen as a society. We can't, and we can't close our eyes before there's something like that, and there's it, it's got it. If we get interested in this, we'll be able to talk about specific cases of understanding here in free speech within 15 days. It is, some in it have a nice profit and would be very angry with us. That's why there are amendments to the law, there's a system, there's supervision, there's penalties, there's, there's a way of deterring such a business. So, we have to talk about phenomenal forms by not naming anyone, and the state has to provide inspection supervision. I assure you today that there is real estate business in this segment and to warn you of the great harmfulness of the Life Support Treaty, which is mentioned in this law, even though it is not the subject of this law, but the Law on Mandatory Relations, but in 10 places it is mentioned in this law as one of the possibilities of making a contract and teaching foster care. So I'm sure I'm sure of my own real estate business and big, big illegal, big illegal, illegal business. Strengthen criminal provisions, strengthen the role of inspection supervision, limit the possibility of such offenders registering their activities tomorrow are the things we expect from this law. This law may not be perfect, but what the minister says is the first step and it is our duty to all try to follow this law in implementation. Let's say something about professions and chambers. In this, in this high home of the first law, the first chamber was the chamber of psychologists on the initiative of our colleague, the late Bige Friganović, in the term of 2000-2003, after which all the professions that work in social care were slowly won over, received their chambers. I have nothing against chamber association and that chamber deals with expertise, that promotes concrete work and social workers and social educators and psychologists and all, all activities or all professions involved here, that and constantly have improved professions, expertise, advancement, that they bring very high criteria by which someone is given licenses or, or do not give work licenses, but that they are not a simple collection of membership fees. You know, the only way to get rid of that psych ward is if you're dead. You could've gotten rid of the membership fee. You could've been 10 years old. They asked you to pay the membership fee exclusively, and you didn't win in return, got nothing. I hope that with the last changes and with them a lot of it, this one has changed. You know, I'm not about chambers dealing with neither pay nor the status of these activities, but their profession, progress in expertise, increasing the criteria for doing all the work, so on and on. That's right. And we have a chamber, a medical chamber that deals with and facilitates the settlement of the housing issues of our own, our members and life insurance and energy subscription. Wait, if that's what the chambers are going to do, then have them start associations, start their own unions that will fight, trade unions, Czech trade unions that will fight for wages and status. It's a division in this society, but it's also much wider. So, I expect they'll be much sharper now, no matter what someone interprets as being someone's hostages. They're not anybody's hostages. They're either professional or not professional. No one's done anything in the last 30 years to stop them from talking about these problems that I'm talking about. About the existence of illegal accommodations, about earnings, about the excessive number of people in accommodation, etc. Therefore, why should I now speak poor profession they will be suffering after, after all this. Why didn't they raise their voice? Why so far, but I hope that under some difficult, slightly difficult conditions now, because the profession will be recognised by everyone, the minister would not be a minister if he did not confess, acknowledge the profession but for certain, to some extent and be invited to create social policies. Not one policy at the expense of the other, but a balanced development of social policies. So it doesn't stand what counterpart Vidovic said that the waist this one does in some way prevents this waist from being heard. The waist was very weak all these years, and the problems were being created and piled up but pushed under the carpet. Yes, the chapter of social policy and long-term goals in social policy is a special chapter and it should be understood that social care is just one of the components of the social state, although I have read people from the academic community who have said that we are missing out at this time building a social state. The social state is an upgrade to functional systems, pension systems, social systems, labour markets and what we cannot protect in these ways, we protect the strategy against poverty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84546	The next club of MPs will be that of HDZ, and a respected representative, Nada Murganic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84547	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, State Secretarys, Honorable Directors in Social Care, colleagues and colleagues, I will start with a small opening section where I will say that, of course, the Republic of Croatia is a social state and we are trying to do so, but clearly here we represent a reform of social care, and that the state would be free, social, exactly what the representative of the Hrelja said earlier in the last sentences should also include a lot of other systems. We have laws here, 7 laws that form the basis of social care reform, and there are three other national plans that are not now the subject of the debate, but will certainly contribute in general to this reform. The aim of this whole thing is for the welfare system to be transparent, efficient and professional and certainly what we keep saying that we have all advocated and called for reform for years and that it is welcome for us. It was necessary because different changes in society since the transition times have really accumulated a number of problems among our citizens that even those not in some way after that kind of conservative approach belonged to the users of a very strict social care system were forced to fall under this system because of their problems, because of socioeconomic problems, family legal protections fall under this system, and the system of these changes could not be monitored. Especially burdensome family legal protection for future families have their own burdens and can no longer adequately meet the task that the family expects and which is why we all give both the importance and importance of the family. Of course, the welfare system except the social care centre, and we are talking about them the most now because the Social Care Act, which is the fundamental law in the system, is implemented by social care institutions, units of local and regional (regional) self-government and associations and religious communities and other legal and physical persons and the whole of this law and the reform law of this system will in some way apply to them. What she would like to say right away at the beginning, and the mantra that keeps repeating itself, which is that this terrible centralised will lead to the distance of professionals from the users and will therefore be inefficient and thus will not succeed in reform. Of course that's not true. Social care centres exist and continue to operate in their places, in their cities, in their local communities. Of course social policy along the centres creates other institutions and institutions, as well as local communities. It has every county obligation to have a council on social policy and this is where policies are created that meet the needs of citizens. Yes, our regions have different needs, our citizens have different and social economic status, they also have different needs because each region is different. They say that in Slavonia, even in some areas, we have more poor people, but because we now have a regional and then the Croatian Institute for Social Work, it does not mean that the social worker does not continue to do his job, professional, applying the law, giving citizens the rights individually in accordance with their needs. If there are more poor people in some environment, there will be more fees or more prescribed services, and where they are not so poor clearly that there will be so much. So these fees are determined according to individual approach and principle. Do they need different services? Yes, certainly and not in all environments are equally necessary and unfortunately not equally available in all environments, but before and now the centres for providing services in the community have been established on the recommendation or decision of the ministries or units of local and regional self-government. Therefore, nothing in this respect will change to the expense of our citizens or users, but what it wants is that the establishment of the Croatian Institute for Social Work as a public institution will make users more accessible because of the time that professional workers will be able to carry out professional work carried out in welfare centres or in family centres that are also foreseen. Why? Because the Croatian Institute will take over legal, administrative, economic affairs, public procurement and a lot of other things and, of course, that is the space that will be in the benefit of professional social work, or other work of other experts in the centres. What this reform or this law foresees is additional employment. Every time we talked about social workers, and of course they were, that there were few, that there were too many public authorities, that they had too many users on one social or professional worker, that they had no adequate conditions, already in the past, so I can say in some autumn period 200 new social workers are employed, another 320 are predicted. That's what I really want to point out that this centralised will certainly be more favourable to the professionals themselves. The law has a significant focus on users. When we talk about what the law has offered our users in the system, then we can freely say that so far no law, and I can say freely no government has increased in the financial amount almost all the benefits used by the social care system and those directed towards children and those directed towards adults, even those users who are situated in, either temporarily or permanently in, permanently and in certain institutions, have been increased so-called. and allowancees and what's really important is that the guaranteed minimum fees have finally increased, I must honestly say that I've long wanted and called it together and they're equally graduated in accordance with the number of family members. Of course and of course, and I will certainly not be like my colleague Kujundzic said that guy who will now praise this law with all his mouth, but I have such a need to say what's good, but I will also say that these fees are due to the law of large or small numbers, whatever they call financial it is. The law weighs a billion and 100 million kunas, and already with this increase, but to that end, all these benefits in view of the cost of life and the needs of our citizens are not enough, but the announcement is that social benefits will increase, especially guaranteed minimum fees in the future at 1,500 kuna. What I'm going to point out and I'm particularly looking forward to, I was extremely pleasantly surprised, I said that and I congratulate him on that, that the censorship for personal disability has been completely abolished. Persons with disabilities have been representing this for years, in 2018 it was the first time that the price for personal disability was lifted for persons employed. Then we wanted to stimulate people with disabilities to enter the world of work, to venture into the world of work, not to commit to something that is financially secure, but not enough and on the other hand achieved as a person is safe if it is in a working environment and if it still contributes to its restraint. We were then grateful to those who got it and criticised that we had discriminated against all other people with disabilities, and then this is a really significant democratic step where the same financial step in the budget will be seen in a very good way, but here and in some ways there will be an increase in that fee from 1500 to 1750 kuna so that it goes in that direction. I think the few that the government has made so many provisions that really enhance the quality of life of people with disabilities. I'm talking parenting, parenting status at 4, 4 and a half thousand and 6000. So these fees, which I also mentioned, are also changing the provisions in the part where the person can be the guardian. And that fee is increasing. And it is very important to stress that one measure and another, although it is of financial character but it has a significant impact on preventing institutionalisation, as long as it is possible for the rest of our citizens in their homes. Of course, this law also provides for new services. The national plan also provides for the construction of service centres in the community that we need. They are important because they prevent the institution, they are important also because they allow our citizens to stay in their homes and their environments for as long as possible, and also in a way that strengthens employment. We also talked about this permanent education. I can't say, there have been various educations by our professional workers. It was planned. We were very cooperative and professors from the Faculty of Law, or a study on social work, but this was as controversial as what the environment was, as the centre expressed for this desire and need. However, by setting up the Academy of Social Care and we did not have the only social care not exactly such an agency that would be targeted in this regard will certainly enable one quality, continuous improvement of all our professional workers who work in the welfare system and certainly will be involved with the innovative experts. I don't see why there's such evil in the debate where it's said that it's designed for interesting groups, so corruption is mentioned. I think as much as it can be criticised that you may be going to praise this law, but there are these one senseless malice and bad criticisms. In my opinion, one of the most dangerous is that it is claimed that professional workers are unhappy with these laws and that this reform will not succeed. I have a lot of confidence in them because each of them in their workplace will look first and foremost at man and user and will do everything to apply everything that is positive under this law. However, it will also communicate with the Ministry through its expert channels and communication and what can be improved in the future. And of course every law also requires an analysis of the impact of the regulations and will certainly be able to change. No law is perfect. There has never been any law at the will of all, and to which it applies, nor by the will of those who will do it. However, there is so much good in this law that it certainly needs to be pointed out and I also believe that any well-intentioned criticism for a future period can be a good guideline. Family homes are something that was found to be a solution in that phase when we had very many users, especially the older users of our citizens in foster families where it was to that extent that they had according to those allowed three to five even up to 10 and more users who we thought were fostered and of course went to some transitional solution and it was going to be that they were then somewhat less under the quotes of the institution, institutions to be family homes. It's gone out of control, and it needs to be arranged. The Starka Association and other family homes associations are in co-operation with the ministry. With these changes already made in this second reading, they are satisfied and I believe that we will overcome these problems that we have on the one hand in family homes regarding employees and ultimately for the investment of people who invested in these properties, and on the other hand we would have an unprecedented problem with the accommodation of older people. Because, unfortunately, most of our citizens are older or want to or have to be placed in some institutions. As far as the Household Act is concerned, in 2018, I formally proposed this law, and I expected a lot of it. We really wanted to strengthen that foster care, you know, everyone, especially for kids. Every child deserves a home, and it would be good to be with his parents, biological parents, but unfortunately he has children who can't and somehow foster them, the foster parent is closest to that one emotional, psychological atmosphere and environment, and they've just proven that, compared to the institution, warm relations with the close ones are the most favourable for the development of each child, as are the changes in society so we have a environment where there is no interest in foster parents, but I must honestly say that, in addition to increasing the finances or compensation to fosterers or children or users for their basic needs, foster parents need great professional help to be able to do so with a strong clear recommendation and familiarity with all these benefits. Where foster parents are associated with community services for children and youth, where good cooperation in providing support to foster professionals especially in the first stage when children have come to a new environment is very, very good, necessary and I think that other than financial benefits foster parents find it difficult to decide on foster care, potential, for foster care in the future with all problems, and these are children who really have a complex problem being left alone in some way. And that's something else professional services can and still have to work on. And that what I would say about chambers, we also passed those five laws in my term. That was one breakthrough. These laws have now improved, they've leveled, they've aligned with other regulations, and I think that through the chambers, the voice of the profession must be stronger and stronger, but when we ask the question, it was a question of who will be responsible for the failures, and so far it's the responsibility of those who fail. But we don't have that culture. that we know how to take responsibility for those who are [[Intruder: Thank you.]] who are the perpetrators. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84548	The next club of representatives will be that of HSS and the Workers' Front, and the honourable representative Katarina Peovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84549	Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, I'm going to tell the ministers that it's amazing that you gave me the answer that you didn't actually give me the answer or the need to answer the question of how it's possible that no one from your ministry will be present today on the stands at 7 p.m. Pucko Open School on the subject of the new Labour Act, and the answer that we received as an initiative that because of other obligations, you are neither you nor anyone else are able to attend that summit. I'll warn you that it's about 20 associations, organizations, unions associated with the ZOR Workers' Initiative, which gathers 20,000 and 20,000 members, respectively. 12 unions are involved in this initiative. I think it's unacceptable that the ministry doesn't have a single man who can come to that initiative, here's my criticism on this side, and I hope that someone will at least follow that tribune, so that you have this insight into what that profession had to say about your draft work, you said that there's this expert public involved, that you're talking to social partners, but there are other unions, there are other associations that participate in it. In addition, from these professional partners we have also received a draft of this law, it would be much smarter if the law were adopted in a way that the draft was public and that everyone had the right to participate in the creation or criticism or any public debate related to this draft Labour Act. I will, among other things, in my presentation and a little bit in connection with this law that we're talking about today, but let's get back to the subject. So this law that we're talking about today, or the 7 laws, and this package of laws, I would briefly describe it that way in my replica this morning, the famous Churchill if you don't want to solve the problem, then set up a commission. Here we have institutions, commissions, academias, new institutions that don't talk much about the problem itself or solve it at all, and the biggest problem is the overburdening of workers in the social care system, especially administrative obligations, but that problem only potentiates, and what these new institutions are saying is that this ministry has no trust in the professional public. There's no trust in his own profession. And that social Darwinism means it's going through this legislative proposal, and it's going to go through other legal proposals and it's going through this new Labour Act, and it's what this government wants to point to, and what it wants to create this social consensus on, and it's so beautiful this language is just a mirror of itself, alone, the very ideology behind it. So it's this Darwinism or this war that's trying to create here between what's nice to say to the user, watch out for the users and those who give, provide, provide means of social service. So, it's like we're in some market relationships, so they're users, and the other are social service providers, like we're talking about someone here, completely speaking about out-of-the-mill services like I don't know massages or meditations, and not meeting the basic needs of people who don't have any other choice, so these are fundamental human needs. These are social cases and they are social workers of colleagues and colleagues, not users and provide services, yes, but good. Let's go in a row, so that's what many people have already said, I'll try to give each other another a corner, but also sum it up. The problem is primarily about centralisation of the system and non-resolvement of burning issues. We can say good centralization of the system might be able to do something, change, maybe bring something good, but from the very analysis of the profession it turns out that's not so. So instead of the current social care centres, the Central Croatian Institute for Social Work will be established. Here again we have the meaning of the institute, a nice word because it's probably meant to seduce ad act problems, not solve them. As Minister Aladrovic, who quickly, quickly escaped after the criticism, did not last long, as Minister Aladrovic managed to solve a number of problems, so it is probably why he is seen as some new successor of Plenkovic, very effective in this... ad acta and the problem of the unemployed, and so we have evicted people, here we will seduce ad acta problems of social care because the institution as a beautiful institution is a new institution, which is made up of central services and 21 districtal assignments by county. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So far, social care centres will become the district offices of this mega-institutional institution, and branches of current centres will turn into its outposts. This is also a very nice word, this is where the cases are going to be. Sounds like you're gonna bring someone in, not get rid of something. Otherwise, Anka Slovenjšak, the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, has also given a good diagnosis I would say these legal proposals and she said that this centralization has a very well described bureaucratic distance and treatment of administrative rules or leaves an impression of the takeover of control means over a completely classic system that needs to be controlled and centralized, so the office will take over the powers and professional jobs of the current social care centres. In other words, social care centres have thus been given a non-transparent assessment of the work so far and I think the worst thing we have heard here from some MPs and advocates is that the criticism of the system is fully translated as in the criticism of individual actors, meaning those who work in that system, they are guilty, so social workers and workers are guilty, no structural criticism, no systematic criticism, no criticism of the system, but we have criticism of individual actors. Many have pointed out that centralisation is anti-constitutional because the constitution prescribes that JLS and those involved in local affairs are also the social workers of the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government which discusses this constitutional provision. The study also notes that the right path to reform was to enable centres to influence the movement of social programmes at local level, creating social programmes in view of local needs and only there can they agree with those colleagues and colleagues who said that one continuity should be maintained. On the other hand, supervision and that is what hurts profession, is excluded from the hands of profession, which is otherwise the tactics of many situations, so it is, that means the Darwinist struggle between the users of services and the service provider as well as the say it nicely, so the other institution is established, so it is the Committee for Decision on the founding of complaints. The Commission means to decide on the basis of the complaints, of course, that it must, that it has a positive appeal, that we have complaints to talk about, that there is a need to see whether there is a basis for the complaints that this is well said here by the parties who have not been satisfied with the previous response of the Ministry on services provided, procedures or failure by workers in the field of social protection, but what they say is the social workers and workers themselves in that commission will not be experts, so it will not be experts to evaluate their professional work but people who are not their professions, so it is a complete degradation of the profession. Since such a body does not exist in any other area of public administration, such a legal solution promotes further under-responsibility and mistrust in experts in the system of social care and roof meanings throughout that system. The third institution, the mega institution also has a megalomaniac name, it's an academy. When it comes to education and science, it is often called the Academy. Academys, centres, the bigger the names, the weaker the effects. Workers will then be referred to perfecting the institution of the grand name of the academy. Now if something is called the Academy, then they would expect the institution's centuries-old tradition in the education of social workers, not it's a newly established institution, and social workers are wondering what about existing institutions that have conducted education. It was a study of social work, logically, it was meant to be a resorient ministry, civil society organisations, the social protection institutions themselves, and in the first place the Croatian Association and the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers. What about these institutions, they're obviously not the academy. We need to start an academy to educate our social workers in order to get additional knowledge, skills for working in this demanding activity, educate ourselves, etc., we need to have one demonstration of institutions to say Plenkovic is. And the fourth is the abolition of family homes, okay. We can even agree here with the assessment by the ministry that the homes have not achieved their goal, which is how I quote whether the family lifestyle within the family home. Maybe this assessment is well-intentioned, maybe it's real, but it doesn't completely address the primary problem that exists, which is that we don't build new public homes, institutions that could go through all this revaluation and be really a place of family life and family home, but we're actually destroying the existing one. It primarily means that due to insufficient professional cooperation and infrastructure hardened in the ministry homes could not even provide the expected quality, it is said again, services, means no.../incomprehensible/... meeting the basic needs but rather providing services. The abolition of family homes, although I say, may be driven by a realistic assessment, will cause sure uncertainty for daily care, these are the daily needs of people who require such care, more than 6,000 people and will bring more than 2,000 employees into an unpleasant situation. Also, what everyone has stated will certainly blossom illegal accommodation by abolishing it. But here again, it leads to the classical downsizing of responsibility to an individual subject, and here I will warn you, colleagues and colleagues, to continuity or what we find in many laws, and we will find in the new Labour Act, if it comes in this form in which it is now in the draft, so I will warn you what will actually happen. We will abolish family homes, we will reduce the possibility of providing, as you say well, but who will provide these services? So they will be provided by workers, provided by women who are in the new draft of the Labour Act, as it is said, have been given the opportunity to work part-time or part-time, and then provide these services, is that, that is, their old family members or those who have a need for care, serve, so they will be, the workers will fall under that burden, while at the same time this Labour Act increases the possibility of working overtime and, without the regulation of paying overtime, enables them to work more, means no less than, and that at the same time means taking care of the elderly and the powerless. Finally, we have a family centre, a new mega-institution which includes social care centres, family centres that were joined in 2014 will not be transferred, family centres are tasked with carrying out different services aimed at children, young people and families, a new law, namely, shows the intention of the social and family authorities to redistribute again after 7 years with the establishment of a family centre of an independent institution that will be centralized with branches by county in a similar way as this Croatian institution. I'll just say that I've made two amendments, one is related to the citizens' initiative "Let's help the children with disabilities" which she warned, and it would be good to have a minister or someone who can answer that question, I don't know if anyone has warned him before me, so it's in the article. The 58th century 1 must be deleted from the words "4. Step." The right to other people's help and care has people with four. A degree of disability that also has the right to a personal disability. Possible exercise of rights, overlapping these rights could lead to the abolition of the personal disability of persons who have received it so far. It means that the exercise of one right excludes the possibility of achieving another right, that there is overlapping and that there is an opening of the possibility of a discretionary decision. The Minister should, therefore, explain briefly this final draft law on the right to compensation for foreign assistance and care and the erasure of the disputed provision relating to the 4th group of children with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities. The members of the association also expressed dissatisfaction with the absence of the 1st group of persons with disabilities in the law and with the remainder of the property, and with the absence of property and income censorship for the achievement of compensation for foreign assistance and care for the second stage. They are also unsatisfactory that there is no increase in the amount of compensation for other people's assistance and care, especially if this amount will be received, as it appears from all of the above and the 4th group, persons with 100% disability and children with the most severe health damage. It is also unclear why the parts of the first proposal for a psychotherapy law have been changed to Art. 6 in the final proposal for a law on the activity of psychotherapy. In the final draft of the law, there are unwarranted restrictions on working conditions in the profession, when the draft law is completed, the proposals of professions whose representatives are best acquainted with the current situation, as well as with all specific aspects of psychotherapy activities and the need to expand to other professions, i.e. other areas, should also be taken into account in this case. What is good in the law is certainly an increase in the minimum fees guaranteed and the basis for exercising the right to it, but it means, as well as the increase in other material rights of the social majority, in this country, such as the increase in the minimum wage that praises this government, if we take into account annual inflation, inflation at an annual level of 3.1%, then, and that is the highest inflation since 2013, then these increases are actually not enough and the question is whether they can at all talk about any significant increase, or, as in the case of a minimum wage increase, and here should make a parallel analysis of these issues and how much it would be necessary, means how many needs and how much should be allocated. However, to conclude, it would not be so important for us to discuss this Social Care Act and belonging laws that we did not become a social case and what we heard yesterday from Prime Minister Plenkovic, that fairy tale was, in turn, quickly demassed with these legal proposals because they suggest that we are the 8th worst country in Europe at a rate, by the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion, that the poverty rate in the Republic is even 18.3%, and that the person at risk of poverty or social exclusion is more than 23%, that is, colleagues and colleagues, almost a million people, people in heavy material deprivation is over 7%, over 6% of people can't afford adequate heating in the coldest months, and that's at the moment of inflation, at the moment the price of energy, over 48% of people can't afford to give themselves a safe meal, 8% of people can't afford to spend their holidays in the next year's no time. So, when your washing machine breaks down, you can't buy a new one, 15.7% late on paying your house loan, rent, director's or consumer credit bills, in short, Croatia is the 3rd poorest country in the EU. Pensioners are social cases, workers are largely social cases. Pensioners are social cases because pensions stagnate for years, they grew slightly with the last alignment of 2.46% but in relation to inflation and purchases of basic product prices, the pensioners did not even feel it. Average pension in December 2020 It was only 2,566 kuna, I'd like to try once experimentally living with 2,566 kunas here, I believe it wouldn't be pleasant. The share of pensions in wages was then only 39% while the net pension rate in the EU, so that was some 52% average in Croatia in that dark socialism and more. In early 2021. This average net pension rate in the average net salary fell to 37%, so more than 52% of pensioners are below the poverty line. The other thing is, we're dealing with poverty. A large number of workers work full-time, have a job, but work in poverty because their salaries are not enough to meet basic needs. The minimum wage covers only 25% of needs, basic needs, means living monthly workers in his family. And then our speeches grew their wages, they grew slightly compared to the EU, they grew completely irrelevant. So Croatia is in a group of countries with the lowest minimum wage, and that salary is almost the least growing compared to all other countries. The sobering of the fairy tale, which the prime minister manipulated by statistics, yesterday said it was 16% but did not say what the fall was in 2020. I think we're kind of sobered up here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84550	The Honorable Representative Davor Dretar will now speak on behalf of the House of Homeland Movements' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84551	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. There is no minister, dear lady, nice and greeting to you colleagues and colleagues. Yes, we live in a rather fictional state or at least in a strange situation where I have to admit sometimes it's hard to separate reality from parallel reality, so now we can say after this new hit in Croatian cinemas that we are really in one Matrix in a strange situation where yesterday the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister and his ministers, are responding from one corner, and we are mostly opposition MPs and MPs are asking a question from a completely different angle. What are the two basic differences, what are the two perspectives shared so deeply by Croatian society? Now, if we're going to talk about our prime minister's position, then with his sentences, we're going to put numbers together and try to compare or put into reality the numbers and reality of our prime minister's imagination that says, just for a moment I'm paraphrasing one of his answers to my question yesterday is that Croatia is experiencing a Renaissance. Here are a few numbers that really show that we're really going through a Renaissance, but in the wrong direction of what the Renaissance in its meaning should offer. We're sinking. People at risk of poverty, people who lack food, living space, social contact or live in households where almost no one or absolutely no one works. According to the latest available data from 2020. These persons in Croatia have 23%. I'll leave you a dozen seconds to absorb it. In 2020, I repeat that is the year from which we have full and official data, the data for last year will wait a little longer, the risk of poverty towards the intensity of household work is highest for households with very low labour intensity and for households with dependent children, at 75.5%, drink, for households without child support 58.1%. For those who do not know the very low labour intensity, the situation in which people live in households where no one works or works very little or works very hard, members work up to 20% of the total number of months in which they could work during the period from which the data comes from. So let's just let one more string of numbers, but I'd ask the guys in the council to put one title under here that says, we're asking people with weak nerves to transfer the program of evidence very disturbing data. 5.7% of people live in households who cannot afford adequate heating, we are in this period of the year, 49.3% of people live in households who cannot afford a week of vacation outside the house for all household members, 7.8% so almost 8% of people live in households that cannot afford a meal that contains meat, chicken, fish or according to the research here of vegetarian equivalent of the same, watch out every other day, not every day. I'd ask MPs and MPs who find this fun to go back to their club representatives there grow palms from walls and bananas so they don't interfere as I speak. 48.9% of people live in households who cannot handle unexpected financial expenditure. From the craftsman, we'll be washing our hands. 14.2% of people live in households who in the last 12 months have been late due to financial difficulties to pay their debts whether it is a housing loan, rent, bills, directors or anything else. I won't do it anymore. This isn't fiction. This is the State Statistics Service's data. Let's also devote ourselves to this package of laws that we have here today in this united debate, although the whole opposition has drawn attention to the fact that it's not good, but in the end we kind of agreed, and then we're discussing it. Although the whole package of laws has been well formulated and the first reading has passed, I recall once again the untrueness of the respected Mr. Aladrovic, who said that all remarks were respected and that here they are in the second reading. So it's absolutely not true. If you've been through, I've been through all seven legal changes. None of the proposals of the opposition representatives were accepted. But let's go more precisely. It is part of the Household Act that questions the existence of foster care as a social service before the application itself. In fact, the law prescribes the age of foster parents up to 60 years, although the working life of the Labour Act increases to 65 and 67, respectively. Unfortunately, it opens up a legal uncertainty for us. A large number of foster parents would spend five years in suspense of exercising pension rights on any basis. Furthermore, new amendments to the law require minimum secondary education for foster parents, which calls into question the survival of a very large number of foster parents who have not had the necessary conditions of education and will not be able to extend their licenses by applying the law. This is a very large number of foster parents, but the provision also does not apply to foster parents for children. The basis of such an article of the law certainly is a devastating fact that according to the interpretation of this provision in the future clearly cannot be a parent unless you have a minimum secondary education. The ultimate illogicality is the promise of Minister Aladrovic to increase supplies from 1.1 this year for social care users located in institutions and foster families. Unfortunately, this part of the promise remained only filled with social care facilities of 5100 kuna per user, and the hosts remained at the level of 1800 to 2400 hundred kuna depending on the category of users. The Minister's decision to increase the supply of certain social care users dramatically while those in foster care at the previous level remain is nothing more than a slap to foster families who are the future of deinstitutionalisation of old and powerless as well as children without the necessary parental care. In the past few months, there has been a decline in the number of foster parents, and of course the capacity to accommodate the necessary ones. The competent centres no longer have the capacity or accommodation facilities available. There is a bit of chaos in the field that is caused by the system and the announcement of new legal changes. Instead of fostering foster care and increasing the number of foster parents, unfortunately, the opposite is true. Family homes that have not fulfilled their role and field are part of a gray economy. They are also revised, we fear that all amendments to the law as well as the new Social Care Act deserve urgent adoption and application so that further action can be regulated and social policy reform implemented. Unless under urgent correction of legal provisions, a large number of foster families are moving towards the termination of the licence and of course foster contracts, thus creating a critical mass of users without roofing over their heads. And finally, just to add this part of the debate, of course, to more than 8 hundred thousand pensioners in Croatia living below the poverty line. Here is now a small trade view of one of the parts of the Social Care Act which is here today, the respected Mr. Minister announced and said that from now on, users will be entitled to a guaranteed minimum fee whether they have a vehicle or not, or new ones can have it. I must admit that I found myself here, but I must warn of one thing that may not be visible at first sight. If they want a guaranteed minimum fee, these people must not have a vehicle of greater value than 20,000 kuna. In short, clear and fast field research on the portals dealing with the sale of vehicles, I saw that you can't buy a car that is less than 15 years old in Croatia right now. Here are some interesting data from the technical inspection stations of Croatia that say that as many as 20% of the vehicles were invalid, that we have the oldest driving couple from year to year getting older. 79% of our fleet is over 10 years old. I think that here in principle I was sure that this part of the law was well-willed to allow people to still own a vehicle that was perfectly fine, but I think it was necessary to pay little attention to the fact that people with such censorship are still directed towards sufficient, outdated, and not by the dear God and by the life of dangerous vehicles that are not only for those who manage them but, of course, for all other traffic participants were those on wheels or simply those in any other way involved in traffic. I've spoken here to many dear people who have spent the past ten years in the welfare system and in this whole social system. They all know the same thing we all know, each and every one of us who in the family has a little older person, a pensioner, a pensioner, our moms, our dads, our grandparents, our grandparents. We have already heard the information about how real pensions in Croatia are and we know how many people in fact want to go one day and the end of their lives after the end of working life are spent in an institution that would take care of them, but unfortunately the reality is very simple, the reality is that beds do not have a sufficient number where they are affordable to the recipients of the average Croatian pension. We know for ourselves, many private-owned homes are offered where prices are one, two, and three to four times exceed the average monthly pensions and are therefore fully clear to average pensioners or pensioners who have an average pension in full. It's not for Grandma and Grandpa. What did the system see here? Of course, he saw a problem he couldn't change because we can't increase pensions or at least say we can't, especially now that we're seeing population data or population lists. We have to ask ourselves what and what the pension system will look like without talking about the welfare system in 10 to 20 years if these trends arise. I admit, we're facing a dreadfully dreary and very, very dark fate. And then, of course, what do people do? People are looking for accommodations for their grandmother, for their grandfather somewhere where they can afford it where the grandson will add a little, the son will be a little, the daughter will be a little bit so we'll put Grandma somewhere has a home. Unfortunately, these sentences were spoken by people who put their elders in the House of Andrasevec. Drink some. Yes, we know how it ended, unfortunately. I say once again, I fully respect and appreciate the good will of competent services that they sometimes see through their fingers. Mr. Aladrović mentioned here almost quadruple increase in the number of inspection controls in homes and all similar institutions which is absolutely welcome, it is no problem, but the fact is that the system is extremely air-conditioned, that the system is not laid down in a way that can fully ensure the application of the law that we are making here. And what dear fellow Members of mine and fellow ministers are worth then this entire HS if we're all aware that in addition to what we're talking about, there is one parallel world, and that world actually exists as soon as we get out of this building, a world where our elders have to go to institutions, to some homes where we're not even quite sure how they're going to feed them, what kind of health care or any other kind of care they're going to have there. Then, of course, we'll see through the fingers of those inspectors, those in the ministry, we as children of the person we're leaving there and how to say The life Goes on. Unfortunately, if this is how this life is going to go on, everything is just not bright, our fate is dark, our fate isn't in years, and I'm afraid fate represents a film that no one in this country wants to see, and I'm afraid we're going to have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84552	Thank you. We're done with clubs and now the technical service is begging me, begging us for five minutes break so we can change the device for the streams. Five minutes means 16.15, 16.20 good. It's 4:10 a.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84553	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,21 HOURS]] Here you go. When you're done talking, you can talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84554	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84555	A microphone, a microphone, a microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84556	Yeah, well, there's no one out there, but there's both colleagues and colleagues out there, so this one handsome big set, there's no one from the proposings, but it doesn't matter so they don't listen to us anyway... It's good, it's good. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] So today we have again in a united debate this great set of laws when it comes to social care, foster care and everything else, and I will repeat what I said and when I debated on behalf of the club, I am sorry that the debate is united because it would be an opportunity to touch some other things differently, but what is there. So, since there's no one from the proposer, that's who those dogs are barking at you, the caravans are coming through. That's how we feel so often, but what we need to say is, we need to say. So, when you go into some kind of a law change or you go into something called reform, and all the time they convince us that this reform is even though I have to admit I don't see it, but maybe someone sees it, then we need to know what the point is, what the goal is. There are three participants in that. One participant is users and let's see users who have benefites which will make them better. The second group is those who will implement it, who are in charge of implementation and the third group is this executive legislative part that needs to create some legislative frameworks. So we're going to do our job there's going to be one, one plus one, and we're going to say here we've done so many laws and more of that, but what we need to all ask ourselves together is the next. What benefits do users have, and who will do all this? We also see that we spend more time in form and less time in content. So what is said in the introduction of the law is that we today have 82 social care centres with 56 branches. And then they convince us now, so it won't be like that anymore, but we're going to have another form, we're going to have an institution, and we're going to have an academy, so we're going to have these family centers, and then we have a commission to decide on the basis of the complaint that's like this in some form. And now he's trying to convince us that this form will be faster, that it will be more pulsating, that there will be fewer officials. I've been walking this world for a long time, I've been in executive power, I've been involved in various options that options are options when you've done something or done something, and it's never been when, when there's been a lot more, it's never been turned into something better, there's something more pro-pulsive than we've been, it's turned into the thing that is, and that's that we have a lot more new paper and new everything. Let's get to the content. There are 3 million 880 thousand of us. How many social workers do we have, how many social workers do we have? It's content, it's a meaning that he would be faster, better, clearer, so that he could do his job better so that he could do his job better together, how many of them there are at all opportunities and how much money we have to hire them and make it all stronger together and make it all better together. This is a crucial question because if all those who are with the system and we saw it through the remarks they all emphasize one thing, that this law will not pass the paper, that this law will not put out any better options and some other variations and that they are transformed into something that is essentially much more paper and much less content. I have to refer, and I want to refer to part of the Household Act. On that one, it's like sitting in the ears of the ministry, like they don't really want to do it. We have a decision of the Constitutional Court. The fact is, and I have to honestly say, there's no ministry to do anything about it, but it says that the current norm and the way it is where the same sex couples can't or is not clearly defined to be foster parents is not the norm that requires unconstitutional rights. Listen, kids, I've had a chance to listen and see what the kids say. The kids say, we, I, so the kids who are saying I want someone to do laundry just for me, that my laundry isn't with the same detergent as the others, that someone bakes pancakes just for me at night. And it's much less important, so quality foster care is important, not what we've turned it into. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84557	Thank you. Stay, stay but not for this first intervention because it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Sabina Vosovac, vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84558	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. He was injured just before Article 121. A Rules of Procedure which says that debates on individual proposals require the presence of representatives of the Government and that when none of the representatives of the Government of the sittings are present, they may be interrupted. I think it's clear to me that government officials don't listen to what MPs say when they sit in this assembly in 99% of the cases. This is also seen in the changes between the first and second readings, but it is really not appropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84559	Thank you. Actually, you're right. It's been working like you've seen for a couple of maybe two minutes, but you're right, though. I won't give any sanctions, but I can't give sanctions to the government either. But in this case, I won't give you sanctions either because you read the article correctly. But it's my decision because that's what it says in the Rules of Procedure, isn't it? It's my decision to continue the debate or not. I made the decision to continue the debate. Mr. Emil Daus, here's your replica. Oh, no? Oh, yes, Katarina Peovic. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84560	Here's who he's not without, but even better, who he doesn't have, we can evaluate him openly, so maybe challenge them to come back. Josip Aladrovic, today you spoke of Mrak-Taritash, a colleague of mine, about Minister Horvat. I will present one thesis that Aladrović, Horvat and Marić are the main axis of this government, one triumph without which we would not be as good as we are. Minister Horvat is responsible for the economic growth we are witnessing. Minister Maric for Social Equality to Tax Reforms of Five Waves where he gave the biggest tax reliefs to the richest, and the poorest, and Minister Aladrovic is responsible for the conclusion and do not ask this law what the state can do for you, but what you can do for the state. No social care, no care for the weaker, no care for those who need it But there is what we can do to the state. [[Thank you very much. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84561	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84562	Thank you very much, colleague Peovic. I prefer it much more when someone is there to talk about him and talk to him and incomparably, I don't always feel so good when we talk in the third person of someone he has. Let him be there, let him hear what we have to say, and let him look down if he is ashamed. You remember that debate that was up until the late evenings when we discussed, when you mentioned Minister Maric about reducing VAT to menstrual hygiene supplies, so when the secretary of state was uncomfortable. He was embarrassed. He even said he was embarrassed. I'm just curious about how uncomfortable it's gonna be for someone, and now that I mention it, there's a possibility that the VAT will be zero, that's without it. I wonder what we'll do about it. But Minister Aladrovic came here and said it was about reform. If there's a reform today, I forgot a red tie, and when it was first reading a blue tie. Then that's it, but it's not a reform. So this is just one ironing to say so. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84563	Thank you. Mr. Daus won't talk about the tie 100%. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84564	Thank you very much. I didn't even put it on. Dear colleagues of Mrak-Taritash, I'm interested in how you comment on the centralization of the social care centre system, because in this country, the more talkable about decentralisation, the first thing I thought was that it was just an impression, but in fact, it's more and more centralization, so please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84565	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84566	Thank you very much. Comrade Daus, we have two things we now see through the new laws and through the amendment and addition of the law. One thing is that by law we don't solve things that we need to solve, we transfer them to regulations and regulations. If I were to refer to this law exactly when it comes to family homes in five years they have to agree, I don't know what or how, but it will be defined by the rules so that Parliament doesn't have a chance to talk about it. But yes, every time someone mentions decentralisation, we have to worry, because behind that decentralisation goes as much centralization as possible. So, especially when it comes to this set of laws. There's a problem going on in the field. The interest is that someone who can at least listen to this problem, at least ease it, at least something is on that ground, but then the point is that it's decentralisation and financial resources, so it's going to get the resources that can already be used. So when someone mentions the decentralisation of panic. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84567	Thank you very much. Thank you. Vice President Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84568	My colleague Mrak-Taritash how you comment on the fact that this government, as you have said on purpose, does not want to put in the Household Law a single group of citizens living in a registered partnership in order to access the provision of foster care despite the fact that it violates the Law on Registered Partnership, the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on Prohibitation of Discrimination, and the Constitutional Court decision which made it clear that what they have done, has led to a de facto discriminatory position of a group of citizens only because they live with an equal partner in a registered partnership. On the other hand, when taxing those same citizens, they also tax the registered partners as those who need to pay taxes under special laws. Isn't that hypocritical and whether it's such cowardice giving up to a part of the electorate that they're afraid they might lose if they put that decision into the law, and that right belongs to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84569	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84570	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Glasovac and you and me, and a lot of MPs and MPs pointed to and pointed to. This government only does things because it can and only because it thus shows its power and its stubbornness and its care for a group of citizens. And for that group of citizens who do not allow them and do not want to put them into law and leave them to the mercy of courts with individual decisions they do so on purpose. Why are they working? Because they want to hang on to someone else. Now, there's going to be a moment, and that moment is, of course, ahead of the election when you want to hand yourself to everyone, when you want to court Group A and Group B and Group C, and you can't put up with everyone because if you want to touch everyone at the end you won't be able to touch anyone, but children are the least important. And so, on purpose, in my individual debate, I pointed out and for the fact that you listen to these children who, therefore, my sister is a socialist. I know what I'm talking about. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] And I know that those kids are the desire to have someone do something for them. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] They don't care who. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84571	Thank you. You made yourself clear. Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84572	Honorable MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84573	Excuse me, ma'am.../Speakers speak at the same time./... Mr. Pavić, come in. All right, all right, back to zero. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84574	Honorable MPs. Who you and I are usually talking about disaster and real estate about, so I'm going to ask you a question now about real estate business. We see that in fact the state hasn't put up with the job again, and we know that the cars of the homeowners of the elderly and the powerless don't fly into the air. That's one question. The second question is, we have several areas that are not transparent enough in social care, the first is adoption, and the second is the problem of not connecting the social care system with systems in local self-government that are also providing financial assistance, so please your position, your thinking on why this did not happen in this law and when will it happen since it is not indicated anywhere?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84575	Thank you very much for your question, colleague Pavić. So there's what happens after every law that the one sitting at the table says, so whether it's the vice president or the president of the assembly, when the conditions come to pass. I'm just curious about when the conditions will come to pass. So, I repeat, in a country where we're 3,880,000, I'm sure any of us to start talking to each other will turn out to be someone who knows someone who knows someone and everything else, we're such a country, and then we pretend we don't know things. Indeed, I haven't had time, but the theme of family homes is a special topic, the theme that you put into the law a transitional provision that they have five years to adapt. For what? Who? The theme of, of course, everyone doing everything at the last minute, so everyone will remember six months before going underground, going to have a series of things they put on for some others. The things of old and powerless men [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]] So there's a series, a series of topics that open, and I'm afraid we're not closing anything. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84576	Thank you. Vice President Sabina the Voice will speak now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84577	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Honorable representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, this bill did not respond in its final form to the key problems of the welfare system, which are often being warned by users, but also by employees of the same kind, which is a need for equality in conduct and in practice, regardless of where social care centres and where the users in which part of Croatia acted. Secondly, it also did not go into disbursement under powers of jurisdiction that had nothing to do with the social care system, there was only a small gap where the employment compensation was transferred to another resort, but there is still much more room for some powers, some of the obligations imposed on social care centres to actually be transferred to where their natural primary place is, and these are some other areas dealing with both the pension system and the employment system. Thirdly, equally this law did not give us one concrete assumption and a legal framework for the development of a quality network and a range of fees and services that would be in line with the real needs of users. The question that is raised is whether this law or the framework of this law corresponds to its basic task, which is to support and help the weak, powerless, unemployed, unemployed, in the sense that they need to be helped to meet their basic living needs, such as housing, nutrition, clothing, shoes so much as we bring about the consequences and risks of social exclusion poverty even more prominently because at this point we are exposed to terrible consequences and earthquakes and covid crises, but also by galloping inflation. What this draft social care law proposal defines can be divided into three main areas, one area is rights and services for social care users, another area deals with the organisational scheme of the social care centre as a backbone of activity, and that is the third area that has a relationship to the system’s professional workers. We can say that the rights and services of this draft bill are further developed and improved and it can be concluded that a modern social care system corresponds to the growing need of adaptive rights and services, of course respecting financial opportunities and assessing which social group needs the most support. However, we cannot be kidnapped by the disappointment that the basis for calculating rights is not indexed by the fact that money is accompanied by the cost of living in order to allow a more dignified life for the user. In Croatia we have, I repeat, 700,000 people living in poverty, 900,000 who are at risk of poverty. With this law to increase the base by 200 kuna from 800 to 1,000, however, its share in the average salary will remain at the same level as that base last changes in 2014, which is 14.5%, and this increase of 200 kuna certainly has eaten inflation in the previous year and a half. So there won't be any bigger steps. What is also saddening is that in a situation where our citizens are concerned about how to pay for energy, food for the consumer basket because prices are growing abnormally, you have decided to reduce the very cost of housing and you have reduced the level of rights acquired so that it no longer amounts to 50 or 50%, but you have regulated it to 30. That's not a good message, that's just not a good way to go. Not to mention that in this law, unfortunately, the notion of energy poverty is not recognised at all, as well as the criteria that define the status of threatened energy customers do not have to do with energy poverty and very often only two categories, which is the category of users of personal disability and this is the category of users guaranteed minimum fees. But the guaranteed minimum fee in Croatia is used by just over 50,000 people. If we consider the sum of these 700 and 900 thousand people who live at risk of poverty or poverty, that would mean that a million and a half thousand people in Croatia, we have no way to help them pay for the most basic, which is electricity. The second area of the organisational scheme, the inadmissible hypercentralisation of the system, is the inadmissible separation of these cells that care about social services from the local community itself because it is the only way to properly and properly detect needs and respond to the needs of adequate services. I don't have any more time, and I have a lot to say, so I'll probably do it in the final word. It's even rhymed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84578	Thank you. Sir, ma'am. Katarina Peovic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84579	Yes, my colleague, you mentioned one very important thing, so indexing fees. The fees should be indexed in terms of prices and then we would actually see that this is not an increase because if we already have, the largest inflation since 2013, these increases that we have received are not the same, the same thing can be said for minimum wage and for some others, some other social transfers, social benefits, etc. So first and foremost, you should index fees, so that's a practice that exists otherwise in other countries, and not only should you index fees, you should index wages, too, is that, and that's something that would lead us to some, let's say, some level means pay and compensation that would be, because when we say there's an increase, it doesn't mean anything. Compared to what? In relation to the consumer basket, i.e. basic and basic needs, etc. So the increase itself pays, so the hidden inflation, if you don't have an increase in salary, is all the time... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84580	Thank you, Katarina. Thank you. Answer, please. [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84581	Excuse me. That's exactly what I'm That's what I said, so this 200 kuna increase can't say that we won't say hello, but it doesn't follow life because the base hasn't changed since 2014, then its share of the average salary was 14.5%, today when the base is growing by 200 kuna, its share of wages is at the same level as in 2014, with the cost of living soaring and the increase of 200 kuna, 170 has already eaten inflation. Not to mention the fact that the Government, it cannot be regulated through this law, can be decided through the regulation to go with a higher base, but also the vouchers which are the subject of another regulation to help the energy-hazarded users, is still the amount from 2014. Frozen on 200 kuna and applies only to 2 categories, these are users guaranteed minimum fees and users of personal disability. This should extend the range, i.e. the range of users to which we will go and increase to a greater extent on our own, that amount of 200 kuna and we will as SDP to propose a package and fight against inflation, but also a systematic solution. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84582	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Antholic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84583	... Dear MPs, here, it worked. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[No, you didn't. On the other.]] So, you mentioned, among other things, how the law was structured and you yourself pointed out a relationship with the employees of the centre, towards the workers of the future office. So, how do you look at the new set, newly established reform of the social system, workers or employees, or all experts who will actually deal with the social care service towards the user, not only in light of the social care law but also psychotherapists in all others? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84584	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84585	I don't look well because what's a bad message of this law, when we talk about both the Social Services Act and the Five Chamber laws, one thing they have in common, is that the profession is completely ignored. You want out of the area that this rigid centralisation and ignoring are actually what the profession has said, it was not intended to deviate from it or millimetre, to establish an academy, which in some way, I support lifelong learning, but the same thing can be, if it is not well defined, the humiliation of the profession itself to the formation of a civil oversight in the form of a commission, where we don't know what it will look like, which is the same, resulting in showing a certain kind of mistrust in the employees of the Centre for Social Care, but also in the Ministry itself, and not less importantly, in the employment and here in the selection of directors, you prescribe that the Director must have, for example, Croatian citizenship, and recently for the director of the Museum of Contemporary Art in Zagreb is a selected Slovenian citizen, and no, and both of which are both public institutions, means that the directors, Somewhere you have a condition of citizenship, you don't have anywhere else. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84586	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Barbara Antholic Vupra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84587	I'm Slovenian too. Thank you very much. Now, a lot of things have been said today, I welcome the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Chairman, above all, to you who are participating today in this most important topic which today will be, as a matter of fact, to be squeezed. I'll talk about what I know most, and these are accommodations for older and powerless people. So this law didn't deserve those family homes to be at least in a new definition, what they'd be like in the future, at least conveniently placed in one of the definitions. So it is commendable that it will survive in some form, but in what form we cannot read from this bill today, it is bad. So it must be clear to all of us what these mini homes will look like. The question arises what is then with the announced deinstitutionalisation of the system because these mini homes will it be something that is an institution or some form of extra-institutional concern. And it can't happen the same way we do now. the situation where, under the Regulation on minimum conditions for the provision of social services, you have defined that the building of public purposes may be the one that can provide accommodation services, and that family homes or any form of accommodation should be registered that public purpose building must be pre-defined in the spatial plans of municipalities or cities. So today, if you want to open either a family home or a home or an institution where it will be, it must also be spatially defined as an area for public purposes buildings. So it's a discrepancy between the Ministry of Construction and the Ministry of Social Welfare. For too long, it has been too long for only one regulation to be amended, and I doubt, therefore, that part of the definition that these family or mini homes of the future will look like in some implementing regulations that it will be too long. It's my grudge for the existing law with all the good things he's carrying. There's a few of them, and there's some. So, as far as accommodation is concerned, we also today with all the increases that have been going towards the accommodation service providers, we cannot find words of praise for this because it does not settle all the costs of those that would be needed in order for this service to be done in a good way. And in order to avoid all those nepotism situations that you have today, when other founders are in their homes at a cost of 2,000 kuna for all users, in order to equalize the situation according to those payments you have in your homes, according to the homes of other founders where these prices are economically still insufficiently high, so that one user must pay 5,000 services that may be less valuable than the one who pays in, for 2,000 in the home of the founders of a state-level or county level, since there is one user co-financed more than 60 to 80%. So, very nominally you have a difference of 2,000 kunas how much a man must give almost 5,000 kunas are paid by all other taxpayers. It's an unsustainable system. We are talking about introducing this economic price for all social care accommodation services where huge money goes, where injustice is created, where nepotism is talked about for decades so that it can't be simply calculated, so it's indescribable, amazing that we don't have a clear calculation of how much one is, how different it is, and that there's no more dishonesty. This law could have provided a more quality and fairer system in that part of the accommodation for the elderly and the powerless. That law has failed to do it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84588	Thank you, too. Mr. Ivan Celic is on his way now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84589	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, the respected secretary of state, Portugal chaired the EU Council a year ago and a statement adopted on that occasion says that more than ever Europe must become a continent of social cohesion and prosperity. As a fundamental element of recovery during the Covida-19 epidemic, the European pillar of social rights has been highlighted, which requires social dimension, social dialogue and the active involvement of social partners. In addition to digital, green and global Europe, which is mentioned many times more, social Europe is also being talked about. In this sense, I see this social reform in the Republic of Croatia and I also see the establishment of the Croatian Institute for Social Work as a way to depolitisation of institutions within the social system. I believe that the local community, in accordance with its specificities, can also give certain over-standards in social rights, in the social care system, and I would, of course, point out the City of Zagreb, which for many years gives and provides certain superstandards in relation to other units of local and regional self-government. I also said at the beginning of today’s debate that after six years in the assembly, I had heard the commendation of the Office of Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities. At the heart of our discussions on how to make these laws better should be users, they should be members of vulnerabilities, marginalized groups. There are always certain inequalities. There are inequalities between Croatian military disableds and disabled civilians. Within people with disabilities there are differences between persons with physical disability and persons with certain mental impairments will be difficult to achieve the ideal for all to be in a society of equal opportunities for all. When we talk about laws on regulated professions in the field of social care, according to the 2019 list of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, there are six regulated professions in the field of social care. Social pedagogues have asked a question about the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy, since they are not explicitly mentioned, but since this list has been worked according to the Croatian Qualifications Framework and since they are in the field of pedagogical science then they definitely have the conditions to become psychotherapists. What has been made a certain improvement is the fact that the importance of collecting medical records of children and adolescents is once again highlighted despite the fact that we have very little, slightly more than 40 children and adolescents psychiatrists. This collection of medical documentation also refers to the giving of an opinion by specialists in school medicine, pediatric specialists, and family doctors so that they will not be cut off. It is very important that it is also a very sensitive group and there should be given an additional protection mechanism. As for the dispute over who can be a psychotherapist and who can be an advisory therapist, when you finish civil aviation at the Faculty of Transport Sciences you get permission to fly, but you won't be accepted by any airline and you won't be able to drive a Boeing so you can collect some formal frames. What you need to stremite is a separate study of psychotherapy without any of these courses, schnell courses that occur during a certain period of time on Saturdays and Sundays and that cost 40 to 50,000 kuna per year. With all due respect, every education is good and useful, but I think there should be some sort of order around here, and we've expanded it except for medicine and psychology and advocacy, so to people who have experience working daily with people with certain difficulties.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84590	Thank you. The first replica of Mrs. Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84591	Dear fellow Cellic. This law ensures new employment for 326 professionals with previous employees over the past months 200, which makes up a total of 526. It is certainly an improvement in the system of professions and professional people. Since you talked about regulated professions, how do you evaluate it, and looking to health care for 526 professionals in a total of three years? I think it's really worth mentioning about this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84592	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84593	Thank you. Dear colleagues of Grba Bujević, and these changes within the Law on regulated professions if you want to be specifically related to the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy in the way the distinction between psychotherapists and advisory therapists has been made, I expect that in the formation of new family centres, psychotherapists will also play an important role and if we believe, and there is no reason not to believe that there will be more than 100 employees in the next year, and if we take into account the situation that more than 200 professionals have been employed in the past few months alone, then it is an increase in social care professionals by more than 30%.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84594	Mrs. Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84595	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. With regard to the regulation of provisions that will recognise the status of psychotherapists, it is understandable that it is trying to enter some order, however, there is a lot of controversy and disdain by already existing associations, or the Association of psychotherapists, and then I ask you what will be done in some transitional period, or which has not been offered, and for those people who have not finished these colleges that are now being put in place in this article, otherwise there are also no natural sciences missing, so what about those who have completed the colleges of someone else, theology or anything else, for years of doing psychotherapy, have a valid European certificate, and now they will no longer be able to work on this because they will not be recognised. What are you gonna tell these people? You're talking about the mental health we've been having, I guess there's over 150 of them, what's going to happen to these people? There's no transitional solution, no solution for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84596	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84597	Thank you. Dear colleagues Marić, therefore no acquired rights are lost, the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy was first adopted in 2018. and at that time it was clearly stated in the transitional and final provisions which no longer exist in this new law because there is no need for all rights acquired, including for people who have acquired the status title of psychotherapist outside the Republic of Croatia, that they will not lose that title regardless of the situation found, and what is new that, in fact, at this moment, with this new law, the Chamber of Psychotherapy takes over the procedure and recognition of foreign professional qualifications. So there is the authority as is the case with the Croatian Medical Chamber, the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine, so that I see a step forward in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84598	Mrs. Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84599	Thank you. Dear colleague. I would ask you one specific thing, namely for years and so in this proposal the career of a child with developmental difficulties or a person with disabilities at the moment of death of a child or OSI loses all rights. For years these people may have been out of the labour market for decades, they have not been allowed a period of mourning, nor a period of attainment means in terms of any programme that will enable retraining, retraining, that they can re-enter the labour market, they are not allowed any psychological assistance, so I ask you as a doctor, doctor and man to comment on these provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84600	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84601	Dear colleagues of Raukar Gamulin, these are very difficult specific situations in which people live for many years. Consider, for example, those who have someone close to them who suffers from Alzheimer’s dementia. This psychological support you talk about has been kind of neglected or activated only when a problem occurs and I think that in general not only when we talk about people who have certain mental disorders that we should work and contribute to institutionalization of psychological support. Today we also had representatives, representatives of the Association "We're not alone" where actually this psychological support is still in some way at the level of improvisation and in this context we should also talk about the carers, so all of this is what you've been talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84602	Mr. Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84603	Thank you, Vice President HS. Your Honor, here are some here yesterday seem to have called me psychiatrists, so you're a psychiatrist, so here you are, please comment. You have one side of the law that's had seven amendments, and now you have a law that people have made an effort to regulate that law. And now everything that's in that law we're actually experiencing is negativity. It says an increase of 200 kuna, not an increase of 200 kuna, because inflation has already eaten 150, so if it hadn't been for that 200 kuna, then that inflation would have eaten 400. So we can't deny those things that benefit users, and the purpose of this law is actually to enable those who use it easier, easier lives, so please comment on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84604	Doctor, I'd like to ask you one thing, if I ask you as a psychiatrist to charge the captain's fee.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84605	Here's my esteemed colleague, Shimičević, but I've been performing here before as a parliamentary representative, and of course I'm using my expertise from the profession. In good faith, I expect both opposition parliamentary deputies and MPs to want these laws to look better. Centralisation, decentralisation, this may be a question related to the Social Care Act, but it is also a fact that for 2022 and 2023, this large reorganisation of the system includes certain increases in certain fees cost a billion and 100 million kunas. Would it be better if 400 kuna were a bigger fee, if it were a raise, of course it would be better and everyone would be happy to accept it for me. But you should be aware of the facts of those countries that are richer have better social rights, and we strive to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84606	- Mrs. Crescent. My sweetheart Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84607	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, in this Social Reform Act, you have relied on those involved in the regulation of the profession, and therefore my question goes in that direction. What is the place and role of psychotherapy within the welfare system, especially in family centers?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84608	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84609	Thank you. Dear colleague Maximchuk, I've already responded in part. I consider it a very good establishment, a re-indulgence of family centres with the aim of implementing programmes and activities intended for children, young people and families. I believe there will also be empowerment in a professional sense. I think that these laws that speak of certain activities concerning certain regulated professions go in that direction and actually the strength of a system of social care rests on its employees, and so I believe that psychotherapists will also have a very important place within family centres.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84610	Thank you. ... A voter. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84611	Dear fellow Celic, you probably know what the Declaration of Psychotherapy from Strasbourg says psychotherapy is an independent scientific discipline whose practice represents an independent and free profession. You also know very well what Directive 2018/298 prevents discrimination or restricting access to regulated professions. I'm specifically talking about psychotherapy here. As it is possible that in the first reading of the law 200 members of psychotherapy organisations, 20 associations, 150 objections go in the same direction, and that, as in all Europe, these two documents provide access to psychotherapy and all colleges under certain conditions, and now suddenly the law is changed. Are you in conflict of interest when you talk about this subject and represent this other side of the now amended law if we know you're working on two universities where you hand over this particular subject to psychotherapy, are you part of the lobby that affected the changes in the law between the first and second reading that one part of the people is completely thrown out even though it's a European norm?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84612	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84613	Dear colleagues of the Voice, if you were talking about education, then I'd more like to respect yours for getting a memo from you. I don't teach at any school, I teach at the University of Zagreb at the Study of Social Work, the College of Social Labour and Dependence and the Faculty of Medicine at a postgraduate study. So I don't see that you'd be in any conflict of interest. I see it as a person who's 20 years old. deals with this profession that I, as a man who completed medicine, specializes in psychiatry, subspecies, have no right to the status of psychotherapist under this law, and a person who has completed construction, engineering and who has completed a course that lasts for 4 years. And who every year pays 40,000 kuna on Saturdays and Sundays can wear the title of a psychotherapist so I ask you who you'd rather go to Dr. Sablar Dračevac, Dr. Kekin or me or someone who ended up like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84614	Thank you. And propose masks I would beg that all those who have a mask downstairs lift their masks without mentioning each other. Mrs. Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84615	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, you mentioned people with disabilities. I just want to say, to point out once again, you probably know that in four years this third time, this government has raised benefits for people with disabilities, so four years ago, it's a personal disability and an allowance for help and care, two years ago, a compensation to parents of care and now a personal disability and parents of care are raising fees. So, it was also commended by the European Forum for Persons with Disabilities, they also praised that the Republic of Croatia is slowly approaching the EU countries and I think it is necessary, therefore highlighted, so here I thank you for mentioning people with disabilities. It's good when there are MPs who discuss it in one way and this is a positive way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84616	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84617	Thank you, dear colleague Lukacic. Thank you for everything you do for people with disabilities. I know it's not that simple a lot of times. My job is to work with people who have serious mental disorders and I simply face and work on a daily basis with people who are employed in the welfare system. A large majority of these employees of social workers, lawyers, psychologists, all the other professions that I don't consciously list for my job. Sometimes in very difficult circumstances, perhaps in some inappropriate areas, but anyone who is going to be a little real can see that from this time on the last period maybe here we just take the last five years so much progress has been made in the welfare system that only a blind man can't see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84618	And finally Mr. Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84619	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, in your address, you yourself said a comparison where you listed Croatian defenders. Surely former minister, in fact, the Ministry of then SDP, where Croatian defenders were dragged in, where people would say "not themselves or your own", but as an expert, you face daily all these problems of life which are also through social care where you see and work in one human form. This social care and this law really gives rise to a lot of quality from foster parents to social workers, to medical staff in homes. Now we could count a lot of things. It may seem to be small, but in reality it really gives a lot, a lot of one human framework to improve.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84620	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84621	Thank you. Dear colleague Deur, you come from the defense population and you know what people who have physical disability and who have serious psychological consequences have been going through in the Homeland War, people who have permanent personality changes after experiencing catastrophic experiences. Here we live in time, so when we were hit by earthquakes. Everyone had certain implications for his mental health, and there should be kept talking when I said about these inequalities. I thought first of all, therefore, that people with mental disorders meet many times with certain administrative barriers, the question of employment which and within institutions that are sensitive to the problems of people with disabilities are in some way not in the same position. Here we as a society need to work to create equal opportunities for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84622	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you, Doctor. Now it's your turn, sir, Mrs. Ivana Kekin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84623	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Assistants and the Honorable Representatives. I will refer to this Household Act in this group of laws that we've been working on all day. Therefore, as noted by many participants in the public debate, the proposal for amending and supplementing the law does not provide for the introduction of life partners into the law in Article 9 although the Constitutional Court made it clear in its decision that life partners are not discriminated against in the process of assessing similarity for potential fosterers. Therefore, it is a harsh ignoring of the Constitutional Court's decision, but it is also a harsh ignoring of life partners who have already adopted children, and further discrimination based on sexual orientation and on family status. Therefore, we already have a Law on the Life Partnership of the same sex, which clearly provides for a guarantee in Article 65 of the ban on less favourable treatment of life partners with regard to obligations, rights and services relating to the welfare system than those provided to marriage communities. Therefore, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, in its decision and decision made by 29.1.2020, expressed its view that the restrictions relating to the procedural aspect and apply only to one group determined solely by the form of a family community in which they live constitute pure discrimination. The Constitutional Court also makes it clear that a priority is to exclude access to a particular social group from foster care, i.e. by recasting them without objective and reasoned reasons, that it actually reduces the potential of foster care as a public service since such a directly constrained circle of persons who could meet the needs of its users and all in a situation where the whole day is mentioned that we do not have enough interested foster parents. In addition, the Constitutional Court stated that the crossover of that group produced general, discriminatory effects on same-sex couples, and we know that discrimination against that group is not lacking. The motion that life partnership be included in the law under the pretext that the Constitutional Court's decision already allowed this refusal is, in fact, a avoidance of the obligation of the motionor and the legislator to monitor and comply with the normative framework with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, with other laws, so above all, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and the Law on the Life Partnership of persons of the same sex. Therefore, it does not comply with international conventions, nor with court practice, and what is most important is not in line with life because it is the same-sex couples who have fostered children. Secondly, we also hold that it is necessary to delete Article 5 which, in effect, enables fosterers to be persons who have been given a measure to protect the rights and well-being of the child, and of whom the pronunciation has been for more than 3 years, regardless of what the measure, for which the weight of the action has been imposed, or how long the measure has been put into effect. So we've come to an absurd situation where it's possible for a foster parent to qualify as a person who's given a measure of dispensation of parental care and where a person who doesn't have the right to parental care can apply as a potential foster parent. Among other things, she warned the child's attorney, and we saw her being ignored. Therefore, we believe that this Article 5 must be removed, the measure imposed for the protection of the rights and welfare of the child must continue to constitute an obstacle to the potential access to foster care unless it is exceptionally possible for the foster care of persons who have been given the measure, but not because of the circumstances of those persons themselves or whose measures did not aim at any change in behaviour drastically. So we now see from these two examples that you are making it extremely difficult for one group, and you are making it easier for another group, and it is quite unclear whose interest you are in because the interests of the user or the children themselves are not in your mind. In addition, we also hold that it is important and necessary in this proposal to legally identify children with 4 degrees disability, I am talking about Article 6. And to make it possible in that same article that if both brothers and sisters have a tendency not to be separated into a foster family. On that trail, we'll also submit amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84624	Thank you, stay, stay, have one replica of Mr. Ante Deura.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84625	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, I'd like to ask you, you said someone was discriminated against, absurd and whose interest it is. So here I want to ask you not only for my own sake but for all the viewers, and where I come from from Sesveda, because of all the mothers that the City of Zagreb and your mayor took rights, they introduced them not into social care but into poverty that is dangerous to destroy the family, these are families that we wonder who are discriminated against, whose interest is it Croatian absurd? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84626	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84627	Thank you so much for asking me this question. It's a really great question. I'll answer you by asking you a question. Were you in the assembly, and it was safe to vote on amendments to the budget and when this whole majority voted against an amendment that required that this fantastic measure be put at the level of all of Croatia, where colleagues from the Suverenist Club asked for a smaller amount than the City of Zagreb should have given it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84628	Well, I, before I give the injury, you can leave because with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have nothing to do with it but I have connections, you can go. Wait, wait, I realize that this question cannot be answered by question, because you have no right to answer, and then you have to give a breach to the Rules of Procedure, but this one I'm just telling you that you don't have to do any harm to the Rules of Procedure, it's understood by itself because if you're giving a breach to the Rules of Procedure by that I'm going to have to give you a warning. [[Intruder: Thank you very much...]] Here, no, no, the microphone, the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84629	Thank you, Your Honor, I'm sure you've forgotten only one thing. You've taken over because you think you can. You can destroy your family with your family, and you can discuss social care at the most sensitive moment and population. You're destroying the family where the largest birth population is, and that's in the Sesvets. So please, if you have any humanity as a human being, regardless of political commitment to come among those mothers and explain to them what you're trying to do. at the pay phone to tell. [[Intruder: Time, thank you very much, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84630	I don't know who, I won't get involved in destroying the family, but don't destroy me with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, Mrs. Kekin, a violation of the Rules of Procedure... Thank you very much. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Please, it wasn't a replica of the Rules of Procedure, a warning, a warning of course. Of course it's a warning. Ms. Martina Vlasic Iljkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84631	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, as we have already had the opportunity to hear and discuss increased fees, we believe that they are not enough and that we cannot talk about social benefits as a reduction in the risk of poverty. So they're already people who find themselves in poverty. There will be an increase in the amount of the guaranteed minimum fee, as we have already heard, and the amount of allowances for housing will be reduced. However, the obligation of 30% of local self-government funding is prescribed. But when all that is summed up, we get more or less to the same amount. For example, a working incompetent male has the right to a minimum fee in a monthly amount of 920 kuna and a fee for housing costs under the current law of 460 kuna, which together makes up a sum of 1,380 kuna. Under the new law, such a user will be entitled to a guaranteed minimum fee of 1,040 kuna and a fee for the cost of dwellings of 320 kuna, which together makes 1,360, so some significant differences are still visible in this case. It is commendable that you have also increased the amount for members of the household, but single households are at greater risk of poverty than households with more members. So we think it is necessary to increase the guaranteed minimum wage for a working incompetent male to a minimum of 150% base. In that direction, we'll make an amendment. You have also entered into the cost of heating that has been financed so far through regional self-government and from decentralised funds, and now these costs are calmed by local self-government, so that this needs to be clarified clearly and clearly. One-time fees in the system have always been used to settle daily expenses, and they have long failed to meet their purpose as they are written in the law. The provisions of the law are as far as one-time fees are concerned, and leave a large space for discretionary evaluation. Our proposal is that, for a one-time fee, a rule should be laid down which will specify the conditions and amounts to be paid on a one-time basis and for a purpose, rather than actually substituting those minimum fees for guaranteed minimum fees. We believe that, in addition to removing the censorship fee for assistance and care, the same needs to be increased for the amount of 150% of the basics of the aid and care allowance for the full amount and the 100% basis for the reduced amount of aid and care allowances because we consider the cost of living as well as the satisfaction of the daily cost of living and the need of people with disabilities have increased. Users of compensation for assistance and care, and in particular the third degree of damage to functional capacity, are persons whose medical status requires additional financial resources and we consider it justified to raise the compensation as well as to increase the remuneration for the personal disability. In this way, we will ensure greater compensation for all disabled persons and will not put a person in a position with disabilities or in a more unfavourable position. Furthermore, how inconsistencies the system is with individual needs are also reflected in the provisions of the right to help and in the house. The Article provides that home assistance may also be granted to the beneficiary of the aid and care allowance. The word is used exceptionally, and it does not specify what are the exceptions when the right can also be recognised to the user of the surcharge. The impression is that this user is not accessible individually, but is a matter of inability and resources within the system. As with one-off fees, they are paid as much as there is funding, not as much as the need for citizens. Therefore, it is necessary to specify and elaborate everything together. I would further like to warn or ask about the national compensation for older people. We warned that the fee would not have its users, we see that instead of the planned 19,700 persons only 5,658 persons are using that fee, and now it will be necessary to align it with the guaranteed minimum fee and raise it probably. What is missing in the debate today, which is lost in public focus, unfortunately and an indication that this is a discussion of services, that we are not yet in the 30th century. Ensure existential conditions, and to the public's focus on services, I'm afraid we'll be waiting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84632	Thank you very much. Let's start with the replicas, Mrs. Devereaux. Andrea Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84633	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, here you are talking about all these services and benefits covered by social care and then you mentioned a national fee. I just came across an article from a neighboring county where here it is in Varazdin County only 190 users of national compensation, which is not the narrow circle of these fees that goes into the social framework and you are here and mentioned the plan is for 2021. 19,700 people, for 2022. I came across the information that the plan was 21.840 people, but it is currently receiving 5,696 users. You warned yourself that it was already said that it would not come to life on a full scale. What do you think the problem is, aren't people sufficiently informed because they're older people who might be living in bad conditions, where the state has scheduled that it's not more users of this national fee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84634	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84635	I appreciate the question. So here from the beginning we were saying that this measure, or that compensation, will not have its users because the condition is that a person does not have the right to retire, and such users are already receiving a guaranteed minimum fee. They are more favourably guaranteed a minimum fee that connects a number of other rights such as housing costs than exclusively that compensation for older people. So this one was expected not to have its customers, and last year only 34% of the planned funds were spent, so the budget was reduced by 88 million kuna. So here's the thing, and if the data was planned, what users are potential, obviously it hasn't been well analyzed, so here's if we can trust these current measures to get results.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84636	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Antholic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84637	Therefore, it is obvious, therefore, that social services are actually underprivileged by too few professionals in social care centres. That's what happened, so there's a bigger number of users on one man who could do it professionally. The second is that the service of psychosocial counselling under this law is based on a therapeutic relationship. Is therapy counseling to you, and who should do it? Is there an expert in a field of health care or someone in the field of social care? How do you comment? So is it counseling or therapy?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84638	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84639	I thank you, so here are the terms really out of line, and in law, something has been aligned from first to second reading on terms and even rights and users. We have the impression that certain measures, for example, overlap with the family legal measures they cover, are covered by the Family Law. So there are certain rights that are not applicable to me, and especially as you mention, there will be no one to implement them. For example, social partnership is prescribed by law, there is no one to enforce this right, as well as, for example, the right to conduct psychosocial treatment against the meaning of or prevention of violent behavior, currently there is no telling who should conduct it and what education should have.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84640	Thank you, and finally, Mrs. Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84641	Thank you, Vice President. My fellow Members, I think that you are now in this individual debate in favour of even stronger centralization than you are criticising that it is foreseen by law. Why? You're saying that the users of the care and assistance allowance can extremely use help in the house and you're saying that the rule on, that one-time fees should be determined by the regulation to specialize in and work out in detail. Well, social workers are proud to have a discretionary grade, and that's what professional work is. The difference between national pensions and guaranteed minimum benefits is that national pensions can be obtained by those citizens who cannot achieve the guarantee because it is the right that has the strictest conditions and criteria to obtain both income and property censorship. And national because of a certain number of internships, it still makes it possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84642	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84643	I thank you, but you still have how then you explain this much smaller number of users of national compensation than expected. So it's obvious that people, not that it's obvious but that these analyses have shown that they're better off staying with the minimum fees guaranteed system and receiving such a form of compensation than receiving... He can, so it means he can't win if, if he receives a guaranteed minimum fee, but if he doesn't, then he can. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] So you have to give up guaranteed minimum fees to have a person mean that national fee. What you said for one-off fees, one-time compensation, the purpose of a one-time fee should satisfy the specific need she now uses daily in welfare centres to further settle all those costs that guaranteed minimum compensation cannot be settled.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84644	Thank you very much, thank you, no more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mr. Silvano's Hill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84645	I will explain three amendments to this law and the basic motivation of these three amendments to Articles 306, 307 and 310, as I have announced in my individual debate, which I am giving to this law and to the basic motivation of these three amendments to Articles 306 and 307 and 310, is the demotivation of, or deterring potential social care providers to engage in something that is illegal or illegal or illegal, illegal. Therefore, in Article 306, we want to punish a fine greater than the one which has been prevented, not as proposed by 100 to 150 thousand but from 100 to 200 thousand legal persons, then a natural person providing social services as a professional activity in paragraph 3, this first was in paragraph 1 and the criminally responsible legal person found in paragraph 4 in order to punish from 100 to 200 thousand kunas for tax-based irregularities and illegality if it provides services for which there is no executive solution to meet the criteria for the provision of social services, to continue to provide social services after the decision to suspend the provision of social services contrary to Article 238(1), etc., continuing to provide services after the execution of the inspector’s decision on the prohibition of work, providing accommodation to a greater number of users than the number of the established executive solution. So that's where we propose an increase in sentence. In Article 307, I propose that the real estate business is much stronger sanctioned so I bind it to the conclusion of a life insurance and life insurance contract and there is a limit to the conclusion of 3 such contracts. So if someone crosses that number of 3 of these 3 contracts I'm looking for the same thing or I suggest that the same punishment with a fine of 100 to 200 thousand kuna instead of the current proposed 30 to 50 thousand kuna. So here is really the deterrence of real estate from real estate business from something which has brought unwanted and so much evil to Croatian society, especially through the conclusion of a life support contract, as far as I'm concerned, on the blacklist. Then, in my view, in Article 110, there were excessively high penalties. It is about penalties for administration of institutions, institutions, associations, homes and all those involved in social care services. The fines were scheduled from 20 to 50,000 kuna. I suggest that it be from 10 to 20,000 kuna, I suggest that it be from 10 pardons to 30,000 kuna, instead of 20 to 50,000 kuna, as well as punishment for those responsible in the legal person who was prevented, or proposed from 11 to 20,000 kuna, that it be reduced from 5 to 10,000 kuna. Why? We're not making it easier for anyone to do business, but I don't think it's the task of inspection supervision to cut the fines, but it's the task of inspection supervision to give its observations, notes, and deadlines to remove deficiencies in keeping records, in keeping the papers, etc. and that they should not go to the first, they should not go to the first one with dragon sentences, because these kind of dragon penalties can be stamped on dozens, which is not the way to do this financially burdened activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84646	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. Mrs. Sablar-Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84647	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, I will not refer to the content of your amendments. I have to read them so you can do it. This way it seemed to make some sense. What you mentioned were surveillance, inspections. Do you feel that in the social care system, this amount of problems that have been manifested with these tragic events and everything that's been going on lately has something to do with it and that maybe this inspection, control and care system has been inadequate and insufficient? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84648	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84649	Thank you, Vice President. I never see that the question of the operation of inspection surveillance is a one-way street. Therefore, nor is it the task of inspection to be the one to work with fire and sword by activity. I remember one of the findings of the International Labour Organization on our inspections, where it was a fundamental grudge to deal with too little prevention. But we have something else here. If we don't have laws that sanction him in a second, third attempt in a quality way, then we're in trouble, then these people are watching as much as they do quality surveillance if they don't let him into the facility or if they don't respect his, so his findings and behavioral corrections, then we have a problem. So, the problem is our consistency with law enforcement.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84650	Thank you. Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84651	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you've opened two important topics. The first topic is real estate business as a gray zone on the basis of a life support contract reached. So, life support contracts aren't the subject of this law, and it's too little time to discuss it. We can only conclude that, really, based on such legal provisions in Croatia, the real real estate business achieved this way has turned into a gray zone and turned into something that is not good. Another matter of punishment, i.e. inspection controls and the increase of penalties for irregularities and illegalities, in particular for the pursuit of illegal activity in our homes, especially family homes. Namely, inspections in most cases so far have shown the largest number of cases of illegal activity Finally, the case also occurred because the users were located in an illegal facility, undeclared. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84652	Thank you very much. Time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84653	Yes, well-respected colleagues of the so far-proposed fines were able to calculate themselves into business. You could have solved this with one or two excessive users at home, and therefore I suggest more punishment to sort of demote potential law breakers, or those who want to earn at any cost in this case because this is a hard job with a small profit in the long run and in the long years. As far as real estate business is concerned, I intensively agree with the Government of the Republic of Croatia to support the Government by negotiating with the Ministry of Justice and the ultimate goal is to make life-support contracts like those that have brought great damage and shame to our society's ban.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84654	Mrs. Nadica Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84655	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Hrelja, you are already able to say veteran here and as far as this topic is concerned, you know a very good system. I am also interested in this real estate business, but we see that the Social Care Act has deleted provisions relating to the family home, and already in established family homes continue to provide social services as family homes and after the entry into force of the law no later than 31 December 2026. After that, family homes will be able to continue to work as for example crafts, limited - responsibility societies, and institutions. So I'd like you, your opinion on whether it's in some way one of the beginnings of that neighborhood of real estate business in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84656	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84657	As for the family home, I think I'm optimistic that the name will remain a family home, but that the expectations of that name will be less than they were, that we'll clarify some concepts, but if it doesn't matter more, the content is more important than the form itself. If it's called a small home tomorrow or I don't know a local home or anything else, it doesn't matter, it's important that homes up to 20 users and slightly more than 20 users exist, that this has to be worked out, so all the technical requirements of the regulation as they've been so far, these technical conditions, and I'm not afraid that they'll have to be more like that in the first reading, all of them will have to turn into institutions. And I told you about real estate business and there will be more to it soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84658	And at the end of Mr. Katarina Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84659	Thank you. Dear colleague Hrelja. You are the most invited to comment on the fact that on a large topic of organisation and financing of care for older people, the new law gives no answer, but this social risk is certainly left to the mere case. I think that this important topic is unfortunately back again, and I think we're all together as a society aware that we're getting older and that demographic opportunities don't work out for us. How do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84660	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84661	So taking care of older people is a complex topic because of the first time little internships, little paid contributions, little income through a pension system on which a social system and a slightly more organised society should be upgraded and the participation of the local community much more than it is now. Therefore, it is not social policy in local self-government units that can share Christmases and resurrections and those to whom and who should not and should not buy votes but also deal with social policy. I can speak of it competently because I'm among the first, so my law was in 2005. Here in the assembly about giving one-time help on Christmas Day pensioners so everyone copied it. So we do not care enough about the elderly and the powerless, since as a society we grow old. Thank you very much for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84662	Thank you, too. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Zeljko Pavić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84663	The Honorable Chairman, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. According to the prime minister, when he said this package of laws would result in a more transparent, more efficient and professional welfare system, it is concluded that the ministry is not satisfied with the current state of transparency, efficiency and level of professional access in the welfare system. So it decided to reform and change, shake a system that didn't work as expected and wanted. The changes could and should have been prescribed in a way that would not... I can only ask you to finish if it's not a problem, thank you. Peacemaking could and should have been prescribed and implemented in a way that would not have come up against the profession, the dissatisfaction of chambers and other stakeholders especially because so far so-called. social care reforms and so-called the improvement of the welfare system spent a lot of money. [[Thank you for doing my job.]] When I say a lot of money in this case, it means that several billion kunas have been spent and unfortunately, as we can see without satisfactory results. A study that has been paid several dozen million kunas suggests almost everything the opposite of what is now proposed in this set of laws, which means that the study and the money paid is actually thrown into the trash. There is, however, something that can be praised and since 2012. means from the time of the government of Zoran Milanovic has been regularly harmonising for nine years with the legislation in the welfare system, which is the information system paid from those mentioned billions of kunas. And now that you've spent billions on missed concepts instead of coming to us with a set of laws that would, among other things, cause and build up an IT system to share that would force the employees of the centre to increase transparency, efficiency and professional approach, which would allow systematic analysis of the work of all employees, which would allow individual analysis of each solution generated in the system, which would enable the current response to any decision, to any solution that does not conform to the objectives of the social care system, which would force employees to a unique approach, you decided to demonstrate the social care system and in the part where it works. And the welfare system works because it is distributed, because it works at the level of units of local self-government and because in these local centres the living conditions and needs of these units of local self-government are known and respected. Errors that have occurred and are happening will continue to occur in a centralised system unless regular controls are made possible and horizontal and vertical systems of approval of the solution are introduced, and digitally, because of greater urgency, and ultimately because of transparency and efficiency. That definitely doesn't require centralised. To explain the risk of introducing such a system of social care and centralisation, I will only mention that it is 2012. When an IT system was introduced, about 300,000 users of the rights and entities of the measures were reported. Today, about 860,000 people have been reported, out of which about 740,000 users of the rights and entities the centre decides on. Now, unfortunately, it will have to be decided differently centralised. I will also remind you that the current information system in the centres of social care has several areas that are not informed, two of which are extremely important. One area that is particularly sensitive is adoption which has not been touched at all by information, and another area is related to monetary compensation, which refers to communication with local and regional self-government units with a view to seeing in one place all the fees that a person or entity receives. This law does not resolve and there will be irregularities again. What interests me even more is how to ensure uniform treatment, for example, in Croatia's Kostanica, which has less than 10 million kuna and in Zagreb. Namely, users of income per capita at the level of Kosovo, which has the lowest income per capita in the EU, and we know what are the receipts and what are the prices in the city of Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84664	Thank you, too. The first replica of Mrs. Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84665	Here's my esteemed colleague. I was just about to ask you about what you last mentioned, which is the unification of standards and services that are supposed to be done by this centralization and the establishment of a welfare office. Therefore, the establishment of this institution and this way of centralisation justice is brought into line with standards and all services in the territory of Croatia. Here reminds us of a colleague So do you think this way will contribute to this or will there be problems working on the ground and the centres so far? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much for your answer.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84666	Well, I've already tried to mention the problems in the replica. I think the problems are going to be far bigger than they're actually expected to be. Since the right of preparation has not been carried out, there are no rules of analysis required for the introduction of such a law in order to be able to see what is actually happening after that and what could happen. That perhaps the information of all this has been carried out together in accordance with these directives that come to us from Europe on digitisation and I think that we might be able to breathe a little easier. This is how it is for you in one office to decide the rights of 740,000 people, or subjects, that is certainly not easy, and there will be certain problems. In addition, there is a question of responsibility as to who will be responsible for the failure of whether that referent in the bar or the person who gave her last signature.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84667	Thank you. I'm giving you a retroactive right to respond. And now it's Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84668	Thank you very much, Vice President. A fellow Pavić I will remember perhaps a little further than some colleagues here when they spoke very much about when a government led by a party that you and I once were members were talking about centralizing certain things and to avoid local sheriffs. Now we are talking about centralised services that should be deeply decentralised at least as you yourself said decentralised in this case when informing the same services is at a very, very low level. Now my colleagues and colleagues tell you that centralization is something great and that Zagreb will make a great decision about your Krapina, about my Osijek, about Ogulin about I don't know Imotski where you are, and we're talking about social cases and families that need social assistance, where every case is very, very special. Do you think this centralization will really contribute to a better organisation and service quality?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84669	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84670	What we have already said several times clearly changes attitudes and thinking, given whether we are in a position or opposition by reminding myself that what we have suggested to be centralized, that is, our former party is far different from what is being offered today. The local sheriffs would definitely be good at getting rid of it and not having it, but now we're gonna have one big sheriff. What do we do now? How are we gonna handle this? Where are we now? But look if we go to centralization without getting ready for it quality, well and we have some time to prepare, that's what I've already warned before that it would be good and quality that when the law is passed to leave a long deadline for preparation, it would be much easier and much more quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84671	Thank you very much. Time. Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Renata Sablar Dračevac's turn and once again I say that masks must be worn over their noses. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84672	I thank the Vice President, an associate of the minister, the minister is no longer here. Therefore, according to the State Institute for Statistics, the rate of risk of poverty in the Republic of Croatia in 2019. 18.3% and 23.3%, respectively, were at risk of poverty from social exclusion. The risk of poverty is particularly high for children, especially those of older age and persons with disabilities. So over 600,000 of our fellow users are benefits of social care. They really need this system, and once again I point out that this serious reorganisation is not helping but getting away. Of course, I'd like to make a mistake and make it look like it's helping, that I'm a complete joke. The system will deal with itself over a long period of time and we wonder how many users will receive adequate assistance. The system must move away from providing social assistance and become support for individuals and families who need it to be able to function independently. It will only be in line with the development strategy of the Republic of Croatia. We know a lot of case institutions, there's been a lot of practice going on, and the question is, can we avoid everything that's been going on with quality supervision of these institutions? We also have persons pointing to system irregularities. It needs to be stimulated and encouraged because when we know what mistakes they are, we can correct them. The Regulation on minimum conditions should have gone in parallel with the law in order to make it clear to us what is to be achieved in improving the quality of service provision. So we'd like to know what the standards are, or, say, for an institution, the number of users, the list of professional jobs and, of course, the number of employees. It's rumored that now standards are, say, one Chinese therapist to 200 users. Of course, we are very interested in what this system of services is, and in this reform it would be important to know whether it will raise the quality of these services and what it will look like. Therefore, how the system will be transformed and what services the provider will provide to its users. It is also important to list professional workers, i.e. jobs, which are in their work circle. There we have the same difference in different institutions. The quality of functioning of the facility is different and definitely needs to be leveled, decentralisation will not help. It would also point out that there are no objections from a number of representatives and representatives' clubs, and related to the involvement of life partners in the definition of foster families, or to enable them to carry out foster care, and related to the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. There's been a lot of talk about this lately, so I won't, so I won't do it again. I'll only use it to finish by mentioning once again what a new chamber problem is opening up for us. So, this precedent of over-influence of the ministry on chambers may be that the other ministers will decide on such hypercontrol of all other chambers. This triggers a set of mechanisms that in the future can create a real problem in operation and I hope that you have done it, you promised us on the Health Committee that you will consult and that you will try to change it and we will really look forward to it if this happened in the meantime. I'm saying, this whole set of laws shouldn't be discussed for one more day than three days so we can say all we have to say about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84673	Thank you. You have one replica from Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84674	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Sablar Dračevac, when we talk about the availability and quality of social care services, here I ask you a rhetorical question. There's a welfare center on the floor, there's no access for people with disabilities, so physically and people can't come to the center unless they're literally brought by someone. Now, you tell me, with these wonderful and beautiful laws, with all these rules that we're going to put on paper, with all this centralization that we're going to do, will the person from Jagodnjak, for example, or from Kotlin or from Udvar, or on the Croatian side, let's say Bilja be closer to that service or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84675	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84676	Thanks for asking. My colleague, if you had described this plastically what kind of problem we have with the availability of our institution to persons with difficulties, not only those who use a wheelchair, but also any other difficulty movement, it is not simple, very often unaccessible. But the biggest problem, however, is that the accessibility of the social care centre, not by abolishing, reforming how it works, I say I would like to be wrong and to be better, I certainly think we are making life complicated and the agony of getting quality social care will continue to reflect all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84677	Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Andrea Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84678	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the assembly, respected ministry representatives, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In my first reading in an individual discussion, I was talking about my family’s own experience, or my parents, in the traditional fostering of children, I will not go into detail just to say a very valuable experience, from 1999 to 2008. 15 children, one of whom was 8 years old. In the first row was actually the altruism of my parents, especially at the time there were no big fees. The number of foster families for children has been reduced unfortunately for years despite expensive campaigns for promotion and aspirations of the deintituation process, which involves gradually shutting down children's homes and transferring all child care to family type accommodation. According to the ministry today, children are cared for by 1,320 families without adequate parental care. This is about 150 less than 2015, of which even a third means 439 make up related foster families, or those who forcely care about the child of someone from their own family and will no longer engage in foster care. The problem is that the age limit of the foster parents has increased significantly, according to the 14-year-olds' Forum for Quality Hostage, which brings together 14 organizations in just three years, the average age of the foster parents from 55 to 60, which is problematic because the foster parent at 65 years of age has ceased the right to foster children. Older foster families leave the system, and young people are gone, and then the forum actually concludes that art in Croatia dies if something doesn't start. The foster families who have taken care of children since the beginning of next year will receive more fees from existing families, but raising the amount of money without other quality solutions, without quality media campaign, without information and motivation of potential foster parents, etc., did not guarantee that the foster care system would improve. There is a need for more published media presentation of households, workshops, publications, calls, people to educate and present to them what standard foster care is, traditionally, foster family, specialized foster care for children. People should focus and plan needs and a host network for each region. There are not enough foster parents and there are 25 foster families for children in Međimurje, 68 adults, and 16 more are needed according to 2020 needs. It is necessary to simplify and speed up the adoption and adoption procedures urgently, and as a prerequisite for this to be carried out by centre staff and competent courts. The laws and procedures relating to children need to be subject to strict time limits so that children do not grow up in homes or worse in violent families for years. That's what the waist says in the front row. So then we're witnessing the cry from the House of Nazorova, here's what I pulled out recently, they say we're collapsing, the number of emergency separations of children from risk families in recent months, especially after a tragic case in Nova Gradiška, so the case that was in Pag, so Nicole who passed away all this intensely, and the foster parent just doesn't have enough. As a result, they say in their home pressure on children’s homes have grown terribly, and their capacities have been filled for some time, and so in Nazor’s House, there is a need for them to, unfortunately, to refuse and to try to settle into a home. They accommodate even the youngest, children from birth to seven years, now have all of them from 87 to 90 users, and the capacity is 60. Also in Nazor's House, there were 20 adoptions last year, even years when they had only one adoption. It is not as much a problem with laws themselves as their implementation or timely treatment. The courts are late, some sort of end-and-a-half-year procedure. As much as they have quality and professional staff who do their best for that little boy, unfortunately if there is no accommodation left in the foster family, that warmth and love that the family actually provides can't make up for anything. We can also see the titles in Croatia for as long as six years we have been waiting for the adoption of a child, so you have the headline alarming state in your homes, three times less adoption of children, annually from Nazor's dozens of children from... two in the whole country only a hundred young people. 31.12.2019. 419 children either with their assumptions for adoption, and 4,400 children are currently without adequate parental care. So if we set ourselves up for the goal of increasing the number of foster parents, to make it as equal as possible foster care in the regions, to increase the number of children in foster families, then at least some of this what we have stated in the current debate should be applied. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84679	Thank you. Mr. Kujundzic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84680	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague Maric. How do you comment on the fact that foster parents in Croatia still need or need the signature of biological parents for any decision regarding their child? How foolishly this provision remains in situations where, for example, a foster child overnight does not care where emergency surgery is needed, and a parent as such causes a problem, or if a particular biological parent does not like his child going to kindergarten, the foster child should not be referred to kindergarten as such unless there is, of course, the status of a special guardian. Where in that whole story is the interest of that figure that should be the starting point, which is the child? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84681	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84682	Thank you very much. I agree with what you have stated, and this is on the trail of what I was saying and the profession says that it is necessary to simplify and actually speed up adoption procedures and that very often be a problem just or demanding biological parents or those who use it not to know, once a month report while the child is in a foster home or family, and in fact they never lose parent status. I mean, nothing can replace his biological parent if it's a quality family, but if it's a problem, if domestic violence is, of course, such a child as you say is a priority, which is the center of this whole story, and it has to be in his best interests if that child suffers. We don't want to, and that's why legal changes and the application of law on the ground should be made easier to make it easier for these obstacles that the profession also states, which we also say here in the debate to actually bypass.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84683	Mrs. Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84684	Dear colleagues. We have already heard here several times that this proposal of the Household Act does not foresee the introduction of life partners and informal life partners into law and we now have the opportunity here to affect the amendments in any way, given that it is not the subject of these amendments. However, what I wanted to point out, why it was important in this Household Act to highlight because in the replica of the first reading, the minister replied, and it was already so on the ground that it should not be particularly in the law, but then we were left at this interpretation of the centre, the interpretation of local people on the ground that it was stated in the law would be clearly told who had the possibility of being a foster parent. Here's what you think of it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84685	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84686	Thank you very much. I agree with what you've said, so I purposely and carried out this information as much as the children's means were with fulfilled conjecture for adoption. So 419 at the end of 2019, and we can say goodbye to the term then, but we're just a little bit confused if we're going to give this one up for adoption and adoption, etc. So, it would be clear that this item is stated in the law, I hope that the amendments will back it up, we've asked for it in the first reading and now, and the twisting and talking of it by the ministry that then we've seen what the problems were with that couple of men who really had conditions and how long it's been difficult, so here's hope that they'll then be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84687	Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84688	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, here's my debate will mostly refer to the Household Act. This law, or this set of laws, could be discussed for much longer and much more than 5 minutes because there really are a lot of things to fix, and unfortunately it will not be possible for us as well as the fact that from day to day we have increasingly more users of this law, and that is something that we should not have the same devastating fact for our government, but good about it afterwards. So yesterday we could hear a lot about how our government is committed to European values, how we are committed to defending human rights, how we follow European standards, how we want a better union, how we want a better Croatia, how we want a better world. But I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues if it's at least the government's declarative position, so why don't we want the same thing for our citizens? And the problem is colleagues and colleagues if our citizens are not treated the same way. Some people think it's funny maybe, that... So I wouldn't say by the reactions on the right, but well that says more about you than about us... [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] If even that controversy had any meaning to you, colleagues and colleagues, that would be within this law. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] It doesn't mean anything to you. You're hypocritical. You're talking about human rights, you're talking about protecting citizens on the other hand, you're systematically demeaning and you don't systematically admit it, but it's about you, not us. You talk a lot about BiH colleagues and colleagues on the protection of Croatian citizens in BiH, you are talking about the need for respected decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH, and you do not respect the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, you here, who wear masks under your nose, that you do not respect it. Let me quote maybe if you forgot to read. The Constitutional Court emphasises that, without objective and reasoned reasons, the potential of foster care as a public service has been reduced by disfellowshipping the access of a particular social group, given that a limited circle of persons who could meet the needs of its users, etc., etc. It's a co-workers and colleagues problem because I didn't notice that the fact that a same-sex couple had fostered children, that it meant that more foster children were gone because they were fostered by those sex partners who think that the horror that someone would grow up in the same-sex family was fostered by same-sex couples. If you're afraid for the moody coworkers and colleagues, and you're often afraid so all gays, all homosexuals are grown up in heterosexual families, no one grew up in the same sex, but colleagues and colleagues are facts and that I can confirm to you as a person who worked in the education system that very many children, very many children in our system there are who need care, care, love. And what I have often experienced is that a single mother or a single father is a better parent than two parents of any sex doesn't matter now. I have often experienced that children are seeking care, attention, love from their teachers because they cannot be obtained from parents because they are a sad colleague and colleagues. And instead of modeling our laws and new regulations according to that, to enable them, and what we do, we ignore the Constitutional Court rulings if we are legalists but also what we can do for those children. And at the end of the day it doesn't matter who's gonna raise those kids as long as he gives them the love, attention, care, and support they need. Thank you very much. ... And you may be ashamed to mention God in such a context, shame may be upon you, so God has created male and female, and male is also God created or female, shame may be your colleague. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Are you afraid of God or not? I hope you're afraid of him, because if you were afraid of him, you wouldn't say things like this, but good. If you'll excuse me, Vice President, yes, give me a warning, here's what I'm saying to myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84689	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84690	Thank you, Vice President. Well, you've opened a very important topic. In all of this online law, we have been unable to concentrate on this foster care and say, of course, there are some and some positive things in this law, but indeed how much we concentrate on our children and how much of them, we really care about their well-being. We are constantly putting these children in circumstances where they will grow up with love, and we are constantly making obstacles to them and leaving them in institutions. So how much love and attention can this country give to our children?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84691	Thank you very much. My colleagues never enough and not this kind of law because some things haven't really changed fundamentally, and here we're not talking about this problem that I was talking about before. I can tell you something else. Let's just say there's a lot of kids waiting for adoption, but you know why they can't be adopted? Because it's enough for a parent to show care once a year or an interest, not to worry, and then I can't go into adoption. What is translated into practice means that literally one call from a yearly parent to an institution that takes care of those children at that time means that these children will not be at all or will not be considered for adoption. And it is evident to everyone in this process that we want from a system of social care, education or someone else that children are suffering at the end of the day. And actually what matters are children are victims of this system, not parents, not the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84692	Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84693	A respected colleague, as well as our prime minister, has, for many years, been in the focus of your work, in fact, European affairs and you well know the political movement in Europe, you well know the movements in EU countries, you know part of their legislation and you know the directives that have been sent from Europe to Croatia. One part of these directives has already been implemented in our laws. And I don't understand why now that we have the opportunity to implement it all and in the new laws why it hasn't been done, but we're going to have to, we're going to be forced by Europe maybe in a year, two or maybe before, to implement it all together because someone's going to complain about Europe and then they're going to have to do it. I'm just asking you to explain to us what are and what are the laws in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84694	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84695	Well, that would be very difficult for me. Thank you, colleague, but that would be very difficult for me to explain in a minute. The laws are progressive. What we keep refusing to be, but also some laws, one part of the legislation also applies to the so-called so-called law. the principle of subsidiarity, therefore, that something is in the jurisdiction of the Member States. Among them is education, health care, etc. etc. But we have seen that what has often been in the jurisdiction of the Member States has not necessarily been well implemented nationalally, or globally, such as the pandemic response. These are also some of the answers that we will have to face sooner or later, including colleagues and colleagues on my right, which is that in Europe you have a trend towards it, because these are human rights, it's some civilizational reach that life partners have been same sex, whether they are diversified in the same rank as marriage partners and that, as such, they should have access to foster care.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84696	You don't have any more replicas. He's got a lot of experience. Mr. Hajdukovic, he's got a lot of experience in Europe, you know that. For example, in Malta, you can marry both sex and gender, but you can't divorce each other, so you have to be careful anyway. Mr. Goran Ivanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84697	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the ministry, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here I am going to use five minutes of this individual debate and talk about one of the segments of this set and the package of laws we're discussing today. The fear of the new is something normal, but the fear that everything new is directed against the existing is already small and paranormal. We must not be afraid of everything that will change and what will lead to individual segments of society to the better, to what we seek. Family homes are a subject that certainly deserves its attention. We discovered this in particular here in the crown when we started in inspection, and the county was these, or regional self-governments were carrying out these controls we really found everything and everything on the ground. I mean, I'm not going to mention some individual cases right now, and I'm going to evaluate some heavy memories to people, and I don't think that's where I want to talk about it. But what the law predicts is I think it well detects the problems we have in that segment. The ministry has said five years of adjustment to meet standards that are much better than they are now. Someone will say that it is an attempt and an attack on foster parents, or on family homes, that they will disappear. No, even there's a legal provision that doesn't adapt in this way will still be able to remain traditional homes just won't be able to have as many protégés as these others will have. He says there are three state homes in Croatia, 45 county homes, 121 private accommodation and 516 other service providers. We're an old population. The census clearly detected that we have major problems and that we will have more and more people who will have no one to worry about, even those who have left Croatia and gone to other countries. Unfortunately, their old parents stayed here and we're gonna have a problem with where we're gonna put these people. Minimum technical conditions I think it's a prerequisite. You can't open a country guesthouse or a confectionery or anything else not to meet the minimum technical conditions. Well, I think everyone has a right not to the minimum technical conditions but to the maximum technical conditions in those homes, because these people pay a certain price so they can have a care they can't afford at home, or nobody can afford that worry either. And I'm absolutely on the side that we have to be rigorous here, and we really can't let anyone take anyone to their family home and sleep there in some stables or I don't know what was going on or report home to five people, and I don't know 35 or 40 in some semi-illegal or illegal facility. This law is very well-detectable to me. Of course, the fear in these existing ones exists and they think that now these new laws are going to be difficult to meet these minimum technical conditions, but let's be honest, that's also for their safety so that this kind of thing doesn't happen in a few places. There's one more thing I want to point out that I think is important. Of course, in capitalism profits are ahead and everyone is after profit, and often this profit is something that is not in line with social standards, or we want to reduce social standards to make as much profit as possible. Now, we have this one problem that I'm going to agree with here and here and part of the opposition MPs who say that our incomes often can't settle even the cheapest foster homes is simply the price these people have to put as a basic price is problematic or pensions are too small to start taking care of someone. But we can't ignore someone else because of that parameter, it wouldn't be fair, it wouldn't be good. Anyway, I welcome this, I think the deadline is fair and everyone has plenty of time to adjust and yes raises that standard of providing this kind of social service. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84698	Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84699	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, family homes as you yourself have said are an important segment of this package of laws or the Social Care Act. The original idea of a family home is to accommodate people in the family environment, i.e. deinstitutionalisation, so accommodation not in an institution but in a family environment. During the years of law enforcement, there has been a deviation, and we actually have three types in my court, three categories of family homes, those homes that really do a great job, those who work on quality and need to work on the quality of service, and they do that and those who have come to the race for profit and they need to be closed because they work in the largest number of cases of dust samples illegally. Therefore, in 2026 C.E. End So it's quite a deadline. [[Intruder Radin: Weather Vesna.]] for adjustment or transformation. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84700	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84701	So I think that with this replica and you responded to what the focus is and the ministry recognized it by raising standards we want to prevent these deviations that you've been talking about and that we really need to be rigorous. This initial position is good for an elderly person to end up in a family, practically there has that transition then it's not as hard, it's a practical environment as a man had or a lady until then and that's good. But of course today it wants to get rich quickly, today it wants not to be socially sensitive to any category of people and therefore there are laws, so there are ministries, so there is an HS to pass laws that will prevent exactly these things you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84702	Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84703	Thank you very much, Vice President. Although it's impossible to enter the controversy with you as chairman you won't mind me taking a minute to take advantage of that. One second and I'm saying that's why I mentioned subsidiarity, yeah, yeah, the... the speakers speak at the same time. Thank you very much, colleague and understanding. On the other hand, I'm glad you mentioned some things, first of all, that you agree with some of the things the opposition points to. In fact, what matters especially in this system that you'll agree to is very sensitive and very important, and that's why it's good to hear what some others say from another cancer view, just to make this system as good as possible. We are also not ashamed or ashamed to greet something that is better and anything that goes in a better direction to support it whether it comes from the ruling ones and I am also glad that you are that way. I therefore hope that you will also support some progressive amendments that will be addressed to the laws that are under discussion, and I hope that you will also give your support with a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84704	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84705	Today, maybe when I'm Prime Minister, maybe we can talk about some things, so far I'm part of an organization that looks compactly and has its position, and eventually so I've come HS, and I think that's the basic principle of action of every parliamentary agent to support what his club promotes for the best. But this part of the story remains, of course, that I agree with. We must strive for this better, Croatia must strive for institutions of excellence in all areas without excellence there is no progress. Therefore, it does not matter which segment, I am sorry that social care in Croatia is treated as a social or minimum guaranteed compensation, and that is all people know about social care in Croatia at all. That's not good. We're supposed to be educators, but unfortunately we're not. reach out to everyone. [[I'm sorry, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84706	Mrs. Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84707	Thank you very much, Vice President. I am glad that you have concluded yourself that social welfare is not only social and that this set of laws has finally touched a lot of things, but most important in all are funds, so you have to secure resources to get to the end user and that the end user would have a quality service for all of these, whether foster care, whether family homes, whether social care. So I would just point out that the National Plan against Poverty and Social Exclusion is in 17 measures from 2021 to 2027, and a total of 19 billion kunas are invested through this plan. National Social Services Development Plan 15 measures 13 billion and 200 million. A national plan to equalise opportunities for people with disabilities 13, 18 billion and 300 million kuna. So both the government and this ministry have provided additional funds and [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84708	Thank you very much, and now you can answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84709	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Of course, by joining the EU, Croatia has raised this scale when it comes to social care, of course there are funds, EU social funds, only the project Zaželi is certainly one of the better projects that has been implemented in Croatia for 3 years now. We have a series of good examples. But what should certainly be the focus that we must not challenge people with administrative and bureaucratic stunts to accomplish what we are actually promoting these laws. We heard from Mr Kujundzic, who adopted or fostered 3 children to face problems that should not happen because, importantly then, in perception, they create a deviation for some potential other foster parents, and that is certain to speed up and make it much better than it is now. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84710	Thank you, Mrs. Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84711	Thank you very much, Vice President. You took the whole debate, and what is perfectly related to family homes is clear that both the transformation and the change that was necessary in this area. There is a fear that it will not be able to adapt but only to those who have really not done this job well and who now fear that there will be increased control and that there will be demanding conditions for those you mention to be minimal, technical, and others. Namely, those who are doing well, and these are associations publicly supported this way of transforming now because they also want to be against this unfair competition. And as for finance, they will also be able to report to European funds and we have prepared before, and especially in this financial perspective it will be possible and they will develop.../incomprehensible/... accommodation services in the community And it's a work in a local community that's constantly being called here. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84712	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84713	Thank you very much. Yes, and otherwise, the practice of passing every law or any change is that those who have done the worst and who have worked semi-legally are in fact the loudest then they are the callers of all the bad things that are going to happen. The only bad thing that's gonna happen is that some of them aren't going to work anymore, which is actually very, very good. To mention that the fire alarm system will significantly raise costs, certainly it will, but it will create conditions and preconditions not to mention Andrasevec, who showed in the best example what happens when we do things that are not even close to what they should be for, and ultimately this last thing you said without the whole community, without one consensus on the better position of socially endangered persons, we will not create this better society.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84714	And finally Mrs. Dragon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84715	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. We also heard from Minister Aladrović today that, with this new proposal of the Social Care Act and all these other accompanying laws that we are discussing today, it will increase 500 million kuna in the development side by, in 2022, a huge increase in the previous year related to social system reforms, and for the benefits we have already talked about, means for guaranteed minimum fees that increase by 20%, for people with disabilities who increase by slightly more than 16%, then compensation for fosterers and supplies that increase from 15 to 60%, etc. and everything else. It may not be a particular increase for some individuals, but I believe that most users of social services or of these social reforms It'll mean a lot to them. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] So do you think that this reform of the social system will reduce poverty and social threat. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84716	Thank you, Mrs. Dragon. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84717	I think the set of these laws will increase this social sensitivity primarily to those who need such help. Of course it would be ideal if there were as little as possible, it would mean that we've raised a ladder when it comes to income and everything people can accomplish, but for me it's justifiable money. How are we going to leave people who can't help themselves for some reason, and we're going to look down on it and say what we can do. I believe that money is not the only tool in what we're talking about, it's very important and the state has decided to invest some of the money in it, but what I think is good with this set of laws that we are finally moving into this reform that is comprehensive and that touches all spheres when it comes to social care and those who are essentially the most threatened in the [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84718	Thank you, no more replicas, thank you. Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic is on her way. ... What? [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Oh, no, I'm sorry, Vesna. Mrs. Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84719	It's good, it's late, so the chairman would skip a bit. Never mind. So here's to the end I'll just say that we're going to stand it seems like twenty or slightly more than twenty amendments to this set of laws, and these amendments are going to reflect, as I said and support some things that are good and that we want them to be better at this reorganization of the social care system and we're going to try to suggest that through these amendments some things are lifted that we think are bad. So what we certainly support is an effective and rationally organised social care system. We also support the harmonisation of standards and levels of social services in the entire Republic of Croatia. It seems that by establishing the Croatian Institute of Social Care, the minister also said that the number of bodies that have so far had their own separate legal personality could contribute to greater efficiency in achieving the goals. At the same time, however, there is a fear of a large part of the users of this whole system, i.e. actors throughout this system, that this will actually contribute to greater centralisation, and I say here on the ground people are afraid that by setting up a central institution like this and in the government headquarters, there will actually be even less social workers on the ground, since we have two universities that are in Zagreb and Osijek, which have study programmes of social work, that this centralisation will lead to even less social workers at local levels. I also support the work for the general good, for beneficiaries of the right to guaranteed minimum compensation with the cost of carrying out the work for the general good and protection at work, improving the protection of homeless people, organising housing for children without parental care who were located until their age in institutions. Therefore, we welcome the introduction or better interinstitutional cooperation and the exchange of relevant data between competent state authorities, where we do not think we will propose an amendment. The introduction of one-month control over social care institutions, the introduction of education for once-a-year service providers, strengthening education, system staff and lifelong education and training. And what we oppose and endure, a series of amendments, it is that complaints against the ministry's decisions are decided through the commission, as this removes the usual judicial protection, the users are denied adequate legal protection. We oppose the establishment of family centers as a separate state body. We believe that they can be a founding unit inside here, this institution that is already being proposed and set up as a separate state body. As I said earlier on behalf of the social care academy club is very short, inaccurate and superficially regulated. Croatia has organised social work education at these two universities through study programmes there are several other universities that would be competent to organise many forms of lifelong learning for social workers, which would be both cheaper and more quality. This kind of authority, inexplicably and vaguely regulated by this institution, may also speak of some of the interests behind and exist outside of social work. When I talk about family centres under this text of the law, the basic activity is to provide counselling services, psycho-social counselling, family mediation, psycho-social treatment to prevent violent behavior prescribed by this law. This violent behavior raises the question of whether the family center provides services to prevent violent behavior at football matches. It is mentioned too much, so this phenomenon of violent behavior in some kind of generic meaning is not only of the family, but everywhere violent behavior appears. The activities of the family center and the Institute for Social Work are also necessarily complementary. However, the law neglects to regulate this complementarity and the integration of jurisdiction is not regulated at all. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84720	Thank you. The Republic was requested by Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84721	Here you have mentioned the Institute, and I am interested in what seems to you that this legislative proposal solves the relationship between the Institute, the Resord Ministry and local self-government units, since many complaints were precisely about those individual social service providers who are expected to take responsibility as those end-users have no way of affecting this general outcome that will ultimately have to be realised in practice as well as the problem of the fact that no one has taken responsibility for the stronger support of the development of social services in assisted areas where it is certainly most needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84722	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84723	So as I said setting up a social care office here's justice by reducing that number of bodies that have so far had legal personality. This may also lead to greater efficiency, perhaps more rational and responsible spending available resources, available resources. And that was justified by equating standards. In a conversation with some of the workers in the system, they may also have helped, as they say, to communicate with some local sheriffs in these boards of directors currently in centres that are once acting just like local sheriffs, however, concerned, that this is too much centralisation that will ultimately slow down the existing processes that are once and for all quite slow.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84724	Thank you very much, ma'am. Pulley, you don't have any more replicas. It's really Mrs. Right now. Vesna Bedekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84725	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, distinguished ministers, secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here I believe that, that we can, after almost all of this day's debate, agree that the social care system is a very and extremely complex system, and I would say a very fragmented system with more than half a million users from the youngest to the oldest age and somewhere more than 3,500 providers of different services in the social care system and I believe, you will agree with me, the whole system needs first of all to be focused on the welfare and satisfaction and quality service of users. And so, for years now, there has been a debate on the really need and necessity of reforming the social care system, especially because of the fact that, for years in the system, different situations are taking place which require reform and, of course, this reform package that we are discussing today is one basis of reform, and of course I believe that you and I can all realize that each reform is a very long process which, apart from the legal basis, is the laws that we are discussing, are certainly looking for the extraordinary efforts of all stakeholders of the system, but also the demands and financial resources, and I will repeat that to implement the reform procedures under the laws that we are going to pass in 2022. A billion and a hundred million, for '23. A billion and 200 million kuna. I use the opportunity to congratulate Minister Aladrović on this achievement because I was myself in a situation of struggle for budget funds and I know that it is not easy or simple at all. Minister, congratulations, and I certainly support you in that. On the basis of these financial resources we know, I will not now lose here minutes and seconds to, to repeat, and I will only say that the law extends the range of social services and increased almost all benefits in the welfare system from the personal disability, and then abolishing income property censorships, foster benefits, guaranteed minimum compensation etc.. What I want to look at a little bit more is the planned establishment of the Academy of Social Welfare. There was controversy about it, there was a little debate about whether it should be called the academy or some other name. It doesn't matter to me what the institution is going to call itself, it's about content, not form. Therefore, the aim of the Academy is to organise and implement professional training of social workers, professional workers in the social care system and to implement compulsory, but also those very important specialised training programmes. And what's important here to point out who the professional training is about, is it? First of all, those who are at the beginning of a professional career, so the trainees, before passing a professional exam, passing professional exams, continuous professional training of directors who are very important, the continuity of so-called professional workers, social workers, the implementation of organisational, team, methodical supervisory, which is very important for the welfare system, professional training of workers, centres for special care, family centre and various service providers. It is a whole range of those to be covered by professional training, and the purpose is to establish and in some way standardise professional training. It has been said that there has been professional training so far. Of course there is. Professional training is now being done by various stakeholders, from chambers through civil society associations, representatives of the academic community, etc. However, what I think is very important, and this is a professional training to bring about purpose and to put an end to it because we have three categories of users of professional training. Young social workers and professional workers who need lifelong training in the beginning. Middle Ages, this is the part of social workers who, after a certain working life in the combustion phase, need empowerment and need motivation whether and in this sense, if we pull a parallel with an educational system where professional training is similarly regulated through the agency, I think it is a good way to strengthen and improve professional development through improvement, through elections in mentoring, advisors, senior advisers, etc. by example of some other systems My apologies, I'm sorry. [[Intruder: Time, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84726	No, no, I didn't even see it, I'm... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84727	And I'm very welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84728	Okay, come on, anyone can have a slip, but now the replica, you stay here because you have a few replicas. - Mrs. Crescent. Dragon.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84729	Thank you very much. My colleague Bedeković, the current Social Care Act, has been applicable since 2014. and during these 8 years. He's had eight changes and an addition. We have before us a new Social Care Act that should be more effective through better organisation of the social care system. The law proposes the establishment of three public institutions, namely the Croatian Institute for Social Labour, Family Centre and the Academy of Social Care. Do you feel as former minister that the establishment and operation of these public institutions will contribute to a better quality of expertise in improving problem-solving and the needs of social care users? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84730	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84731	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Thank you for asking. I focused on one of the planned institutions, which is the Academy of Social Care. Of course, in addition to her second institution is the Institute of Social Care and, of course, the Family Center, these are three important institutions in the system. Here various thesis on centralised, decentralisation of the thesis that, by setting up these particularly social care services, we are moving towards a narrow centralization of the system. It should be noted here if we are looking at the current model, so the current model is decentralised so it needs to be repaired, it needs to be repaired. So it's not about centralised and providing services, it's about centralised of administrative affairs only. Social care centres will remain where they are, social workers will continue to provide services in their fields that are diverse and that will be suitable for needs [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] different user categories [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] So that's very useful. [[I've got to stop you now.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84732	No, I have to interrupt now. Mrs. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84733	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues. My colleague Puljak said before that she did not consider it a good idea to go to the establishment of the academy, so I want you to explain from your perspective why it is very important and good and why it is better compared to the current situation. I personally think that workers in the system are not in any way in a situation that they go to professional training in some way and that they do not have that institutional support in this sense enough, and that it is very significant that they are really doing a very demanding and sensitive job, so please explain it from your perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84734	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84735	Thank you very much. So here I disagree with my colleague Puljak here, and I think the establishment of this academy is a very important thing and a very important thing. Finally, experiences from other systems have shown, and we do not need to stress the importance of lifelong education and professional training in today’s day. You're a lawyer, you come from a justice system, so the Judicial Academy, I'm a university professor coming from an education system where the continued professional training of educators, teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers is continuously and well structured and legally regulated by their advancement in the profession. So, the profession of social workers is necessarily a need for further professionalisation that will allow them to advance in calling here, such as the calling of mentors, advisors, senior advisors, etc. which now exists in the existing law, but has not come to life. This is the way to live to reward them in this way and motivate them and financially... [[Time, thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84736	Thank you. Mrs Ursha-Raukar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84737	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bedekovic. You're saying it's not about centralization, and culture centers are losing their real personality, losing their culture centers, I can be good at it... but here's a little louder. Culture centres lose legal personality, so they can't apply to competitions because they don't have legal personality. [[Invader Bedeković: Just give a little dramatization.]] I cannot, in cooperation with civil society in the community, also apply to various European competitions, which is our goal to withdraw as much money as possible and thus cannot meet the needs of this particular local community. Well, I'd like to ask you nicely to explain how social care centres in the community will be able to respond to the challenges. And the needs of this community without legal personality? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84738	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84739	So if I'm not mistaken, you want me to pull the parallel between the culture system and the culture center... and the welfare center, is that it? ... Okay, you want me to pull the parallel. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But what's important, centralization, decentralisation and relation, I repeat, I don't know what times this isn't about centralization of the provision of services, it's just about centralised of different administrative and legal affairs through a roof public institution, and that's the Department of Social Care. So in that sense, also reporting to the competition of different centres, public procurement, etc. and all those administrative activities related to each other and to the application of different tenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84740	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. [[Intruder Bedekovic: I don't see the problem.]] No more replicas, thank you very much. And now it's your turn. Mrs. Maria Jelkovac. [[Intruder Bedeković: I don't see the problem.]] Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84741	Dear Vice President, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here I will briefly look back on this set of laws. Social care is actually a very important activity of public interest, but it is also very demanding and very sensitive because by providing social care services, employees enter the homes of their users and their lives with the task of providing adequate and professional care and assistance. I think there's a very important element in this system of surveillance, and I'd like to take a brief look at that part. It is also important to monitor within the system itself, but also to monitor users who are in individual treatments and sometimes it is extremely important. Of course, it should have a quality and functional system and sufficient personnel potential. During today's debate, the minister told us that some of the new 200 workers have already been employed in the system for the past year but are expected to further strengthen human capacities in the next period. I believe that it is also important to support the employees of this system, both professional and institutional public support because of the specificity of the work they do, because of the difficult human stories and the problems they face daily and try to provide adequate professional assistance. This support for employees should be continued and I therefore welcome the introduction of the Academy of Social Welfare. We remember some very tragic events, and when such tragedies happen, then there's always a guilty one. All such tragic cases suggest that constant surveillance in the functioning of the social care system is very important, but I believe that we must also further sensitize as a society and that in cases where we see some phenomena in the social community that we should report them and we should react, and we must not be silent. In 2021 47 requests were received for administrative oversight of welfare centres by natural persons and 73 submissions of natural persons relating to administrative supervision. 49 administrative controls were carried out on welfare centres, of which 14 regular and 35 extraordinary. 33 actions related to legal and natural persons relating to administrative oversight have also been carried out. That's about 44% higher compared to the previous year. In particular, exceptional administrative supervision concerns family legal protection and measures to protect the rights and well-being of the child. Professional assistance and support measures in the achievement of childcare, the way in which parental care is achieved and personal relations with the child, and custody and therefore the inappropriate attitude of professionals towards users. This new Social Care Act establishes the Croatian Institute for Social Work, which will start working as a central supervisory body on 1 January 2023 with the aim of standardising treatment, professional supervision and strengthening and improving the professional work of employees in the social care system to work with users at local community level. When we talk about surveillance, it is also important to establish a committee to decide on complaints from citizens, as an independent body aimed at better protecting the users of the system. The system of social care whose services and rights benefit more than 300,000 Croatian citizens need and must be more transparent and open to their users. The Commission will therefore decide on the basis of the complaint by the applicant concerning the conduct of persons performing the social care activity in institutions established by the Republic of Croatia. The commission will be appointed 5 representatives of prominent citizens with knowledge and experience in protecting against violence against women, domestic violence or the field of social care. will have at least 5 years of experience in this field of work, and will have to pass an adequate check. I believe that this kind of civil surveillance will also contribute to providing services as high as possible to the users. And I firmly believe that this reform of the social care system will strengthen both workers and users throughout the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84742	And to you, Mrs. Grba Bujevic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84743	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers, State Secretary, colleague Jelkovac, for the implementation of the reform of each reform, and this should also ensure some initial financial investment. A further 1.1 billion kuna is provided for the implementation of the Social Care Act. 86.3 million kuna is additionally provided for the implementation of the Household Act. And for 5 chamber laws, 280 thousand kuna extra. A part of these funds will certainly be intended for this supervision, which you have spoken of is extremely important so that the system can be better organised so that users of these services can actually be satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84744	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84745	So certainly when we talk about reform, then we have to think about wanting a better, more functional system and reaching out to the measures that will lead to it, but of course there is always an important and financial element. Of course people do. I said, human potential is really important, but without money, we can't invest in any segment, not in human capacity, but also in logistics. And also what's important to say is that this reform is not only invested in the system, but it's visible that all fees are increased, that the censorship of the personal invalids has been abolished, which tells us how much this government is in the interest of the user himself. So the focus is on the user and improving his material position also through this reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84746	Thank you, no more replicas, thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Ljubica Maximchuk's turn. Here, you can start.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84747	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, State Secretarys with associates, colleagues and colleagues, let me begin by saying that I support the reform of this set of laws and social welfare systems. We've been discussing this law for almost 10 hours now, we've heard a lot of good proposals, and we've been talking and calling for social care reform for years, of course, but also all the other reforms. The aim of the reform is to improve, improve for users, but of course also for workers in the welfare system. We can see from this proposal that the funds are in social care for '22. and in '23. An increase of over a billion, in fact, over a billion and 100 million kunas, and nearly 900 million kunas per year for foster care. I certainly commend that the government has provided and increased compensation, and we know that some of them haven't changed in years. This is a long-term reform that will naturally take place through several stages. The current law is currently in force from 2014, has been amended and completed 8 times. It would be realistic to go long ago in the creation of a new Social Care Act, and social care is one of the most complex systems in the Republic of Croatia. It's about the most socially sensitive group of people. So far social services have been provided through 82 centres, 68 homes and services centres, and 45 decentralised homes for elderly and severely ill persons and about 2577 foster families. About 1,000 social workers covered nearly 600,000 users in social care centres. I am pleased that the new proposal will lead to the discharge of employees in the centres i.e. to reduce the number of public powers for which almost 145 have been responsible for the data available so far. The aim of the legislation and reform should be to improve the services of users, increase fees, combat poverty, and for employees in the social care system to reduce the volume of work, especially much less non-essential paperwork, improve the position of social workers. The possibility of new employment will also be opened, which will, of course, relieve existing employees of the social care system. This full reform of the social system invests significant resources in more quality and availability of services, increases the amount of supplies, benefits for fosterers, works to prevent poverty, strengthens the capacity of the system, continuous education of social care workers. I will, of course, refer specifically to the proposal of the Household Act. From the current law of 2019. We expected improvement, but unfortunately he didn't get such good results. We have a special problem with specialized foster parents, and we don't have such foster parents right now. According to available data in foster families in the Republic of Croatia, it is 1,350. They host 2,270 children, and there are still a large number of children in homes and institutions. Of course, we all have to work on the promotion and campaign of new foster parents. We can see from this proposal that foster benefits increase to 60%, supplies to users are also increasing. There are also a whole series of relaxing measures, and I am sure that the effect of this law will be a greater number of foster parents, which, of course, we all strive for. I will redefine a bright example, an example from my Ship-Posavina County where it is quite well arranged and organized. We have 20 foster families that host 50 children, 60 foster families for the elderly. Almost a year we get two new foster families when it comes to children. All the improvements made by this new bill are certain now that this figure will continue to grow. Of course that didn't come in itself, that the pledge was long lasting. It is the pawning of all center employees, who back several years worked well to promote foster care. Of course, when it comes to adoption there is a Brod-Posavia County high on the scale. We must all strive together to implement these reforms and to have a more just and socially conscious society. There's a lot of problems, and let's all go solve them together.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84748	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Nikolina Baradic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84749	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS. Dear fellow Members of the Maximchuk, here you are and have pointed out in your discussion that this final bill provides the foster parents with a double wage for the first time, and pension insurance rights, as well as unemployment rights. It also extends the range of occupations of persons who have been able to carry out specialised foster care for children, the conditions of employment have been reduced from three to one year, etc. I therefore hope that in the future we will have more and more positive examples as well as what you have stated in your county.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84750	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84751	Thank you very much. Yes, colleagues, Baradic. I'm sure by adopting this new law, we'll get better results from end-users, children, but of course also from foster parents. Let us be honest that with love and humanity, we must also have financial resources. I therefore support and welcome this new proposal of the Household Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84752	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84753	When we talk about the successes of this government, then we can talk about what changed in adoption that should be the ultimate goal of fostering because fostering is one stage we hope will be temporary and that these children will eventually find a new home if they have not already found that original home within their biological families. And in that sense, when we talk about the successes of this government, we can also look at adoption statistics in the Republic of Croatia. For example, 2015 We had 126 adopted children, and 2021. 129 adopted children. How do you comment and think it's done enough to strengthen the adoption process when statistics obviously tell us the opposite and why it hasn't been done anymore?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84754	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84755	Thank you very much, dear colleague Rasdic. I'm sure this government is doing everything possible to speed up adoption. We know that many children are still waiting for their adoptive parents, but I said in my final address the problem is a lot to go all together to solve the benefits of course primarily those children who await adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84756	Mr. Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84757	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representatives Maksimchuk, you have pointed out as a bright example of the Ship-Posavina County or the efforts of the Director of Mrs. Gusak Krajnović and the Centre for Social Care Slavonski Brod. I think that, and this has already been mentioned many times today, that promotional activities should be done to promote foster care for both children and adults because Croatia is a small country, but there are large differences and unfortunately there are certain counties where the number of foster parents is almost zero. There is also a problem with the City of Zagreb, which I am many times pointing out in a positive context, but unfortunately, people living in the City of Zagreb must go to foster homes 200 kilometers away and I think that should also work on promoting foster care and at the level of the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84758	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84759	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, we are aware of the fact that this equation is not equal in all parts of the Republic of Croatia. I set a bright example from my county. Of course he didn't create himself overnight, it took a long time for this guy to get these results, and I'm proud of myself for starting one action with Principal Gusak. We meet with foster parents and foster children twice a year, talk to them, organize various events and events. Here was recently such a gathering for the holidays, and I am sure that such an example could be used by other counties and I certainly expect that after this law was passed, much more fostering in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84760	Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. And now it's Madam. Maria Selak Rasudiæ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84761	When we talk about fostering everyone it is clear that the increase in the tragic fee that was previously present is welcome, but it is not some long-term solution, nor is it the only thing needed to strengthen the foster system. In this sense, one of the questions that we most often discuss when we talk about foster care and what I find completely missed is that in the field of political debate we bring it to an ideological question and then we discuss more about whether we are liberal or conservative completely omitted from the welfare of children because if we really talked about what is in the child's interest, then the question would be whether or not the same-sex couples are fostering children was totally secondary because there is no right to children, there is only child rights. However, like many subjects of others, and this one is particularly sensitive we have unwarrantedly decided to use this topic as an area of signalling our own virtue, and this is not precisely because it serves us for some of our own purposes, and not for the purpose of fostering children has not moved from the dead spot because let us be a real basic problem when we talk about fostering in the Republic, which neither heterosexual nor homosexual couples stand in line to host children. And why is it such a complex question that I believe will give a more detailed answer to, and my colleague Kujundzic, who himself passed a close encounter with the welfare system because he eventually adopted three children. What foster parents often point out and what's our big problem is, of course, their relationship with biological parents and that's one of the reasons why few people even decide on the adoption process. To what extent can the foster parent affect the child’s life in the first place, and then to adopt it as a next step, the question is open to you in a situation where this biological parent, who exhibits negligence towards his own child, affects each and every one of the least decision on the fate of that child, since going to a doctor, going on a field trip, and so on. What I wanted to hear from the minister unfortunately I didn't hear, and we'd need to look at the current situation here. We are aware that this reform package is the result of tragic cases that have sensitized the public for this problem. However, there is another very specific consequence of these cases, which is that the separation from the family has become more common so that the centres that have publicly declared themselves overly burdened with children, and only emergencies are received. What concrete measures have the government taken and plans to amortise so many children, or to allow them to receive adequate care when we know that there is insufficient room in Nazor or any other home or care for the same children? We have not heard of the current situation, the change that has occurred in relation to homes and the separation of children from the family, and what is the consequence of these tragic cases that have resulted in this reform, and what will the government do to ensure that this inflow of children is taken care of as well as possible? The minister came back, so I would like to hear from him, and I don't know if it's because he's an economist, this is a social care system, how it's possible that when we talk about disability benefits, which was my question as a replica, it's possible that in the opening address he talks with praise about how an extended circle of users is the right to compensation for assistance and care for persons who have established 4. The degree of damage to functional abilities, this is a direct quote, and in order for a minute later in response to my replica to say that the same thing he has just praised would change through the HDZ, of course, rather than the opposition amendment, regardless of what the same proposal is. And in conclusion, since there's a lot going on here, and I'm not going to make it to everything I've been planning to look back, I'd like to say something about us not thinking about this country and the problems we're dealing with systematically. The social care system is the last in a series where anyone needs to finish, and to advance the social care system and develop prevention, we needed to talk a lot more about what we have been pushing under the carpet for years and about the food donation system and about food banks and everything else that will prevent the growing number of our citizens from being users of that same system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84762	Thank you, and Mr. Kujundzic replicates.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84763	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, what do you think is causing the drastic decline in the number of people who want to foster a particular child? Whether in such situations where we have a negative trend, so I will remind myself in 2020 that the social care system has issued to me about 140 household licenses, and the system has left a little more than 540 foster parents, whether in such conditions if there is danger, and in Croatia, God does not give this to me that I am right, but there is a serious problem of household deficits as such, whether we should allow them to be foster parents, therefore to professional teams, and thus allow people who are 65 years old if a particular professional team is estimated to be able to be foster parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84764	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84765	I agree with you that some abstract categories such as age limits in a situation where we lack foster parents are certainly not what should be a crucial factor if the person before was, for example, a foster parent and meets all other conditions. The decline in foster care and even lack of sensitivity to the foster care system is the result of systematic wrong policies concerning relations with the social care system. For example, in some more sensitized and more developed countries, if we can speak normally and normally, people adopt, adopt children with Down syndrome, children with severe damage. We do not even know that there are a large number of children in the system who need special care and who also need foster care. We didn't develop this basic foster home, let alone like Italy, for example, sensitized people for those with certain damages. who need their home. [[Intruder: Time.]] There's a possible space for very big progress.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84766	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Mrs. Ljubica Lukacic is on her way. You can start, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84767	Dear Vice President, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, here is today a large package of whole large ones, I would say indeed a large package of laws, one reform of the social care system that we have all long expected here. I believe that we are all happy to discuss these laws today, given that we expect this reform to certainly result in a more transparent, more efficient, more professional system that we expect to be at the service of all users who will have a need or already have a participation in the welfare system. I'm going here today, given this brief time, to quickly look at, of course, all the laws we're discussing today, but I'm going to refer to the Social Care Act, especially the part that applies to people with disabilities. I must mention here that this government, so the government of Andrej Plenkovic, has for the third time increased one of the rights for people with disabilities in four years. I note 4 years ago as an extra for the help and care of a personal disability, 2 years ago the status of the care parent compensation for the status, and now this year, this is the law of the personal disability and, of course, the status of the parent parent. Therefore, those parents who will not be able to refer their child to any education, therefore which is so sick that it cannot be separated from its parent will have the right to more compensation from those children who can be included in the system, so whether at half-day, whether in the living room etc. And those parents who have two or more children to care about will also have a greater compensation. What she kind of said was the most important thing that echoed in this law, which is an increase in personal disability and the abolition of censorship. Many will say, and what is 250 kuna and it is not some amount, it is eaten by inflation etc., etc., that it may not be a large amount but it means a lot to people with disabilities. However, more than that increase, I would just like to point out that only this increase at the annual level, at the existing number of users who have the right to a personal disability is 120 million kuna per year, let alone what is expected, what is continuously, I would say even an active increase in persons who will be entitled to this fee. What's more important, which is the elimination of property censorship and the abolition of income censorship, so nothing more, nothing more, no pay, no pensions, no car, no other house and apartment, nothing more will be an obstacle for someone to exercise the right to a personal disability. That's what we've been looking for for for many years, defending, praying, and here, I thank the ministers personally and the Prime Minister for what you've had, I'd say, so far away and immediately looking at an inclusive supplement because this is really a step towards an inclusive supplement that the law, which the law should pass this year because it can't pay for what my or anyone else's disability, can't be, can't depend on any censorship because we need, I don't know, by heart, to say, to pay the maid whether she's related to Any moment and any way, whether we work, whether we make a living or we have a pension or not. [[Intruder: Time.]] So, like all other people. If I make the same salary as someone else, pays us for this isn't the same. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84768	Next is an individual debate, Honored representative of Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84769	... So, according to all EU documents, so strategies, plans, for social care sectors, it has always stood out, and it points out, in fact, 3 concepts, 3D, decentralisation, deetatisation, deinstitutionalisation. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] It's not just a dry theory, it's a formula for social services and programs to cover as many needs as possible and meet all specific needs of the local environment. It is absolutely impossible to know and address all the problems of the local community and the needs of citizens and users. It is impossible for a group to know and see problems and needs in Zagreb, for example A rough field or, for example, a rough field. in the Conovals. And in the reform ahead of us, it's all the other way around. Centralization, etatization, institutionalization. Of the 3D, there's only one D. Demontation of the welfare system. It's another one of the HDZ hypocrites that costs this company. In theory, they swear on Europe, but in practice they work exactly the opposite of all European principles. And then everything else and the opposition and the media and the associated dark forces are accusing of disassembling institutions and systems. This set of laws that represents a reform of social care shows how far this government has been away from man and from reality for years, because the paper suffers really everything, but the question is that Croatian citizens can bear more. I'll just take some examples, for example, parents-careers and childcare professionals with the most harmful devices, all of which will, of course, welcome an increase in compensation, of course, but at the same time there is a big problem because nothing is done to provide programs and services in the community to those children and their carers. Children are without the necessary programs, and while other carers have a rest from demanding care while their children are in a program or using a service, childcare workers with the greatest difficulty have no support, with children are 24 hours a day. Or, contrary to all conventions and signed deinstitutionalisation measures, the only aid in the temporary incompetence of the carer or the use of the annual leave, the accommodation of the child or person with disabilities in the institution, is the place to provide community assistance and services in the community to ensure that the child or person with disabilities stays in his home with adequate care or that the carer receives additional assistance in care during the vacation. These problems are unfortunately not recognized by this reform, and it makes it impossible for the local community to respond to these needs. How to understand bureaucratic provisions that if there are two or more children in the family who have the right to care, the first child will achieve 100% and the second child is entitled to 50%. How does a second child, just because he's second and regardless of his severe disability, achieve only 50%? Are his needs 50% less? Only fair, necessary and necessary is that the amount of compensation is paid in full for each child being cared for. Or, how do you understand the cold of the provision that a guardian loses all rights at the time of death of a child with developmental difficulties or persons with disabilities? That there is no right neither time for mourning nor for psychological help or to help with the qualification or requalification, and that after years and years of absence from the labour market. Here, this is just a few examples of many di clearly showing that the legislator did not manage the well-being of users, that he did not see concrete problems and concrete people. If he had done nothing to come to a consensus with the profession, with the users, with the academic community, however, the refusal of any attempt to talk or deal points to the carelessness and lack of understanding of the great importance of this reform, which includes nearly 500,000 of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. The only thing I can say is sad and devastating.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84770	You have a replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84771	Dear Representatives Raukar Gamulin, I think the Republic of Croatia is far behind on the development of a community service centre, and also on the development of psychiatry in the community. So this is not an area of purely social care, but it is because the development of individual plans and programs for people, for example, with severe mental disorders, requires joint cooperation between social workers and people working in mental health services. That's where we're really behind. We are still at the level of certain pilot projects regardless of what we have passed and certain tweening projects. And here, it seems to me that turning your head not only from people with severe mental disorders but from people with disabilities in general is something that we should all work together to change perceptions and to change our consciousness that these are people we live with and that these are people who are part of us and our lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84772	Dear fellow Cellite, thank you so much for this question. I, as a member of the ruling party, ask you and all your colleagues and colleagues to stand up, that the strategy for the protection of mental health that this country has not had since 2016, and as far as we've heard it is ready and could come to a parliamentary debate. I'm asking you to stand up for finally. And I will fight with you for it. Indeed, everything you said is behind us. Just to take an example of mobile teams that you all know about, so mobile teams are doctors, nurses and people with experience who come into urgent drastic situations with mental health problems in a man's house who's in trouble. In the Netherlands, mobile teams have reduced institutionalization 80%, 80%. You of course know it, and I will always join you in fighting for the progress of the mental health protection system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84773	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Marijan Pavliček. He's gone, he's losing his right. Next is an individual debate, a respected representative of Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84774	Thank you, Mr. Sanader's chairman. The minister is gone again, and it would be unfair, and I will not do it again again, even once again today, with my finger against him who is certainly not guilty of one of these conditions that we have in the system. And if we went to talk about guilt, I don't know how much that would make any sense, but certain things are certain that we need to repeat. It's not repeating it to repeat it, it's not repeating it. It's not repeating it to repeat it. It's not repeating it to do it again. What is saddening is that individual figures from today's parliamentary debates were in this or related sector and could change things from the inside, which they didn't. And then, warmly on stage, thank you. We welcome everything that's content and one law and another we can. We can say well, Minister, if the morning is known after a year we're headed for something we should've had a long time ago, but it's good and it's headed to get where we want. However, what is quite annoying is that we go to praise, clap, and scream, or I don’t know what’s in the category of something that someone should have long ago. I'm going to mention again the embarrassing hour that one fosterer has, and he's working in two shifts, even the third if that child hurts. But if we count only these first two days, his captain is 8 kuna and 47 lip per hour for every foster child. And I'm not saying now, nor would I want to end up sounding like someone who's demeaning it, it's good, where good luck then that Aladrovic has long been our minister of this sector. I'm not going back to that famous announcement from one. In January 2019, a famous legal solution in which all bells were expected that the potential foster parents would be standing in line and chasing who would apply before to deal with specialized foster care for salaries or compensation somewhere around 6,000 kuna, it happened that he did not apply until today. And okay, let's redefine the conditions because whoever walked into those homes is better anywhere than at home, not materially. These kids aren't hungry, they're not thirsty, they're not naked, they're not barefoot, they're not barefoot, but there's nothing that forms us, there's nothing that shapes us in all of what we are, and I'm really hoping that we'll get back at this part of the formal change, so at least I'll offer a bigger amount if someone doesn't come forward then, welcome. However, what we should certainly do is show us the day again in the morning, which is that in the 6 months after we pass the law, we will see if it will work, whether it will lead us to a situation that we have achieved what is our goal, because the kids are the place in the family, only in the family. And what I'm going to mention, and it's about the first law, like someone who's been through all kinds of social care centers. I'm not prone to generalization, we Croats are, unfortunately it is, we are. In this system, I have met many and many more honest, good and honest people who work and earn their bread and have certainly not earned trees and stones after the situations that have jumped out in the media. There's a name and a last name, not generalization at all. The truth is, I'll tell you when I went into adoption and when we sent my husband and I email centres, there were four centres that responded to my email after a year, after a year, and there were a large majority of those who responded to me after 20 minutes, so in that system, and we need to value it, there are people who do their job, but eliminate those who don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84775	Replica, distinguished representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84776	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I had no intention of contacting you, but you offered me this last part of your exposure. I really don't think that we can generalise and that in this large system there is a significant number of people who are truly self-sacrificing and not easy for them, it's really not easy for them. We also remember the situation when two employees were killed by their users. It's really one hard job, very sensitive, demands, and such tragedies happen. And I really think that when something happens, it doesn't have to be the first person to look for the culprit, it needs to be analyzed why something happened, of course I was talking about surveillance in my debate, I think there's a very important surveillance, that there should be more and more inside the system, but not just surveillance, but also help these employees and in terms of their constant professional training, but also support.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84777	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84778	So what we are, anyway, or what we should definitely strive to do is one step within which social workers and groups they work with themselves are found. On the other hand, the security aspect of these people, the amount of people who go through every morning to these people, the problems of these people who come to institutions like this kind of guy, it all kind of breaks down over those who didn't deserve to be thrown at by rocks, we'd say in Imotski, and that happens most often. So generalization as such has never brought any good. I would like us to live in Croatia which is not a relic of the relic of some bad practice, which is not a Croatian crumb in every aspect, but is a Croatia that values and respects work, which values and respects honesty and honesty. Everything else isn't gonna be okay. And I'm going to mention one thing, and that's the infrastructure status of the space these people work in, most of the time it's buildings and offices older than 30. where on every corridor it says, "Let me pass." So that's one aspect of the inhuman conditions in which these people exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84779	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative of Tomislav Okroša. He's gone, he's losing his right. Next, following the final debate, the first on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club is the respected representative Irena Simunic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84780	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President HS, the esteemed State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a package of extremely important and important laws that represent the long-awaited reform of the social care system. It is about laws dealing with the situation of the most vulnerable groups of society, those who depend on us, children, persons with disabilities, older people, poor people, and if the chain is as strong as its weakest link, so we as a community are worth just as much as we are willing to help the numbered. After a consultation with the interested public, which highlighted more than 2,400 objections and proposals from the professional public and after several hours of discussion in HS, the Social Democrats' Club called for an open letter from Minister Aladrovic to listen to the voice of the profession and the interested public, and to all stakeholders in the system and to give up the proposed package of laws, which, according to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, represents a reform of the welfare system. All stakeholders in the public debate process and on the Round Table pointed out that the process of drawing up a new Social Care Act shows that the lawmaker did not take into account the essential components of public policy making, such as a thorough analysis of the situation, an assessment of the needs of all system stakeholders, classes of reform options and an assessment of the impact of each measure. Furthermore, the highlighted objectives are assessed by too general, inappropriate logic of the functioning of the social care system and most of the non-implementable in the proposed way. The Social Democrats Club supports the view that the reform process does not guarantee the involvement of stakeholders and thus the transparency of the process, the coherence of reform measures with the specificity of the reform system, compliance with the development strategy of the Republic of Croatia, and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in line with international documents, as well as international parallel systems. The discussions and comments show that the ministry is in the regulation of the so-called the new reformed social care system started from the wrong starting point, that the existing concept of social services formation is good, and that improvements can be achieved by further centralisation of the system by introducing ad hoc national commission and academia. Contrary to the above, the Social Democrats Club believes that a new reform of the social care system and a new national policy on a different paradigm is needed. We need targeted and decentralised investment in people, in people who would create a better society of equal opportunities for everyone. Unfortunately, today we have great differences between the needs and quality of life of our citizens in different parts of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that the government is not only proposing to move towards further decentralisation in the area of financing and management of the social care system, but is introducing a new level of centralised. The International Federation of Social Workers also adds that it is professionally ineligible and inadmissible to any further centralisation of the system and indicates that the EU's proposal for a reform is contrary to the regional development strategy, as social care systems in all EU Member States are also decentralised and social policies are in line with the needs of the local population. The profession continuously points out that Croatia needs to provide a modern social care system that can quickly meet the diverse needs of local communities while encouraging the development of partnership with other civil and private sector service providers. Government reform of social care centres remains only administrative places burdened with administration, keeping users short for a better and more complete service. Unfortunately, in our Croatia, we all know that the law can only be a letter on paper, it is easier to pass laws than to implement, let alone to monitor their implementation. For this package of laws to be the point of turning things around will have to change. And things and people. The social system cannot and will not function in quality without the quality of good mutual cooperation of all stakeholders. And exactly the deal with the profession was supposed to be the starting point and the basis of such cooperation, the foundation of the joint creation of the necessary amendments to such an important law. With the absence of consensus, the opportunity has been missed, and time will show the justification of such conduct. The Social Democrats' club will not support such a package of laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84781	Following is the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84782	Here's Mr. Vice President, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, at the end of this whole day's debate, I will once again point out that the HDZ Club will support all the laws that we have discussed today. So, this whole package that we expect will be, that it will enrich the social care system in a way that will be more efficient, fairer for our users, that those who come more easily to the services they need will be able to handle their rights far easier than before. This reform strengthens the capacities of the systems and experts working in it, and through new employment plans and through their continued education as well as standardisation of services wherever they are. This reform package, the reform package, is the result of intensive cooperation of the Ministry of Labour with all who have therefore participated from those who, who are participating in civil society, are the National Council for the Development of Social Services, etc. The responsibility of this government is to create better public policies, I would say better and fairer society and introduce necessary changes, and this is an example. On this example, we can see, for example, this long-term reform that will take place at several stages because some changes need more time. As you can see from the very Law on Social Care that the institution that we will have in this system will not start until 1.1.2023. In any case this whole package of laws I am sure will bring to a better service to our users who will need to step into the welfare system. God gave them as little as possible, so that the more we have in the world of work and that the welfare system does not need them at all. And for those who will not be able to avoid it will be persons with disabilities and unemployed long-term, etc., for them as many social services as possible, for them better and more quality fees. And let me once again point out here tonight an increase in the fee for people with disabilities, personal disability, the elimination of property censorship, which may be even more important than the invalidity increase from 1,500 to 1,750 kuna, but all the censors that are important to normal life that you don't have to think about, there's a person with disabilities who inherited from their parents or grandparents some old house that they can't even sell, they can't live in it because it's inaccessible, I can't even rent it, so it's just a burden to them, it doesn't do them any good but only commits them. So disability and property really have nothing to do with it. The disability is something that we have to do in some way, I was going to say to encourage, but not to encourage disability, but to encourage a person with disabilities to draw as much as possible disability as possible. This is why society is obliged to help and therefore these benefits, specifically personal disability today, have been increased, and they are a step towards an inclusive supplement that would then make all persons with disabilities, so also those who are now receiving a personal disability, but also those who are currently in the system aid and care benefits really make life easier. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84783	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, a respected representative, Ivana Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84784	Thank you. Here's the esteemed chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Now at the end of this long debate, I think everything can be summed up in two words, upside down reforms. We have before us a proposal of a set of laws that we will know reliably, to be voted soon and voted upon, which came to be 2400 with a wave of unrespected criticisms, from all those who should be important to the reforming system, such as professional chambers, academic communities, advocates of order, associations, experts and ultimately users themselves. Obviously, however, they are not because we see from the presentation that this upside down reform has failed to work where and what they have been warning all of these above for years. For example, she missed out on income censorship and children with developmental difficulties and people with disabilities who are entitled to an allowance for other people's help and care in the house. She failed to provide assistance and services in a community that would allow a child with developmental difficulties and disabled persons to stay in her home during the temporary incompetence of the carers. This reform, namely, offers them only an institution. It failed to provide any form of assistance, programmes and services in the community, childcare professionals with the most difficult degree of disability. She failed to introduce life partners into the Household Act even though it was ordered by the Constitutional Court. She has failed to regulate the issue of accommodation of persons with dementia to locked departments, so we continue to place them there beyond the legal framework and against the Constitution in the European Convention on Human Rights. It failed to move towards decentralisation of one of the most centralised systems in general, despite the constant warning of important perceptions and respect for regional differences. It has failed to encourage social care centres to act independently and proactively in close contact with the local community in order to identify the specific needs of users. She failed to return social workers to their profession so that through direct contact with users they could create specific and well-adjusted social services themselves. And that's why this reform is upside down, because, instead of all the above, instead of dialogue and respect, instead of trying to get as close as possible and adapt to those who need it, so with the users themselves, we're moving in the opposite direction with this reform, we're moving away from the users, we're going into further red tape and unifying already too much bureaucratic system. The EU standard, when it comes to the social care system, is encouraged, so-called. 3D direction, decentralisation, deetatisation, deinstitutionalisation. We have 3D left with nothing but destruction. We will, of course, be against this package of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84785	Following is the final debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, respected MPs and Vice-President Sabina Glasovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84786	You wish. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club has sent 50 amendments to this law somewhere, and if they were all adopted, and they won't be, like, this so-called. social reform and with it is simply incorrigible. The first reason why we can't support this concept is so-called. the social care reform is that the basis for calculating the rights is not really indexed by objective circumstances and the fact that money fees should follow the cost of life in order to allow a more dignified life for the user. On the contrary, housing expenses, this government has decided to even reduce acquired rights in a situation where the inflation situation is getting worse and worse. Secondly, this reform, i.e. the organisational scheme of the social care centre, encourages hypercentralisation, remoteness from local environments and from a given decentralisation direction that is promoted by all European documents, but also by Croatian legislation and some strategic documents. This reform also means the loss of years of a created system and trust and the creation of a solution modelling larger social policy systems with different objectives and relation to users, and at the end of the line, the loss of the possibility of the promotion of many professional workers who do not have legally established models of progress in the social care activity. However, all these arguments can be killed or confirmed, but one bitter fact remains, which is that the organisational scheme is not proposed by the profession and the unison of the performance of the study centre of social law at the University of Zagreb, the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers, the Association of Social Workers of Croatia, is sufficiently saying that the proposed model is exclusively for political and human wise giving up on implementation, but you do not want it. And what I can conclude about this giving up listening to the profession is that every change brings a valley of tears, but this one brings a valley of resistance, anger and loud initiatives. It's not promising. Next, when we talk about legal areas that concern and normise the relationship to the profession, it predicates provisions on a commission that is quick, illogical, unclear and dissuasive for the profession concluded in order to raise a group of stronger social power and visibility in the public. The mistrust that screams out of every provision cannot lead to a co-operational relationship. On the other hand, the conditions for directors and directors, inspectors and inspectors, as crowns and merits of someone's work in the activity, further minorise the profession by introducing illogical titles such as IT, public art or musical art manager. It is clear that the social care system on the social margin, however difficult it is for us to accept it, and that the general public is interested only when moral panic rises, not asking what conditions it is that things can sometimes be done and given away, but that the outcome can unfortunately be fatal. This law further marginalized all the valuable people who work in it, including the establishment of the Academy of Social Care, which you told them were under-educated and unworthy. How many times has the Ministry of Social Policy been in the reorganisation, how many internal structure regulations have been passed over the last six years? In fact, the reorganisations are demanding, stressful and consume a lot of energy to deal with the system itself, especially the social care system that is responsible for the most vulnerable groups of our society. After the adoption of this law, the ministry is reorganised to follow the logic of the law. It's an amazing use of resources to deal with itself. Let's hope it doesn't get a new employee job while the system cramps in the sub-optimation of experts. Finally, the social care system should address people who have low incomes, invest in all children by introducing a universal allowance for children, as well as by increasing the amount for the same, in the class of housing subsidies and for single-parent families, as well as for all families who do not have enough income and are on the move until leaving this country, but unfortunately this law does not. And as for the Household Act, unfortunately, I have to say that in this HS, we're going to be watching reruns and we're going to see each other again at the Constitutional Court. We will do everything to gather a sufficient number of MPs who will submit a request to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the compliance of this law with the Constitution because again despite all the recommendations, despite the Constitution and other laws of the Republic of Croatia, you decided to degrade one social group only because of their sexual orientation and the fact that they live in a registered partnership. You have no right to do so, they can, like all citizens, be providers of a particular social service. The outcome, I think, has already been seen and made clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84787	Final debate on behalf of the promoter, respected Minister Josip Aladrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84788	The Honorable Vice President of HS, respected MPs, respected MPs. Here I'm going to try to sum up briefly everything we've heard in these two readings and everything that's happened on social care reform. We are today, and above all, of course I will thank all those who have debated, who are often constructive, and less rarely with constructive criticism warned about everything that the system of social care as such is. What we're talking about today is this package of seven laws, so the Social Care Act, the Household Act and five chamber laws. I would like to stress that what makes the reform of the social care system is also certain preconditions that we have done in terms of the system itself, and these are additional strategic documents that we adopted in December of the month at the government's meeting and earlier at the National Council for the Development of Social Policy, which is three national plans and this is about the Action Plan for the improvement of the social care system. So these were all advances and certain procedures that preceded the adoption of these laws or representations on our part. We in this reform, in reform throughout and through strategic documents and through laws have always tried to have a firm two perspectives. One perspective of the system, the perspective of its reorganisation, the perspective of all those sightings, all those illogical and negative phenomena in the system and correcting them through organisational changes, but also the focus on users, so from different social services introduced by these laws to users who are recipients of social benefits or social care benefits, which we have identified and I think we all agreed that they are not adequate at this point. I would like to remind you that we have also increased the fee, i.e. the guaranteed minimum fee and the personal disability as basic benefits in the welfare system. Is that enough, the perspective of each of us, however, is the fact that we will have to take additional steps in the future, that we will have to make these fees even more adequate and that we will have to coordinate them with the entire system of not social care but social security. We are fairly certain or certain that a set of these seven laws, together with national plans, together with the action plans that we implement, will make the system more up-to-date, more efficient and from the perspective of the users and from the perspective of the employees of the system, and on this we will work as a ministry, but also as a government as a whole constantly and continuously. I thank again everyone who participates in the debate, and I want to make the amendments that we will receive after today's debate even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-01-20-0.u84789	Thank you, Minister. With this, we've exhausted the debate, and I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the addition of the agenda and point Final proposal of the Consumer Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 175. Good night, everybody. The session was interrupted at 8:12 p.m.
