ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u102814	Thank you. Mr. Milan Vrkljan, will be the position of the Club of Representatives for Fair Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u102815	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. On 12.5. this year, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia abolished the Supreme Court ruling in the case of Davor and Jasminka Petricevic. By the way, Davor Petricevic is a state lawyer, a county state lawyer in Osijek. The Constitutional Court's decision to abolish the verdict is highly questionable, the issue of its independence, but it is undeniable that the Constitutional Court protected the county's state's attorney. 5.12.91. The first meeting of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia was formed after the creation of a free state. The Constitutional Court is the main interpreter of the Constitution and he, among other things, cares about the compliance of the law with the Constitution, protects constitutional freedoms and human rights, and what is most important solves conflicts of jurisdiction between legislative, executive and judicial authorities. 19.6.90. Mr. Assembly of the Republic of Croatia voted in amendment 64. This amendment from the Republic of Croatia deletes all ideological provisions, which primarily meant the communist system from which the Republic of Croatia came out. Conditions have been created for the development of civil society, free political thoughts and a defined divergence with the ideology of communism. The Constitutional Court is in charge, then, of overseeing those decisions. In 2022, 32 years later, the President of the Constitutional Court and all judges, the President of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, were all from the family of communist powers, or were themselves employees of the communist system of Croatia and Yugoslavia or were the brother-in-laws of communist powers. The question arises whether such a meeting of the Constitutional Court led by Šeparovic, who otherwise came from the Yugoslav People's Army, could be implemented in practice by the parliament of the Republic of Croatia, registered in the Constitution of 19.6.'90. Mr. and be in charge of the program of condemnation and the removal of the ideology of the totalitarian communist regime? No, he can't. The Constitutional Court is ideologically occupied. It is under strong political pressure. The question of the criteria, procedures and choices of the Constitutional Court judges is raised. On the criteria, it is undeniable that the Constitutional Court judges have a negligible professional career, do not have a top-notch practitioner, they also do not have a top-notch theorist. On the matter of the procedure, it is undeniable that the election procedure is unacceptablely short, worrying that the discrepancies between the short procedure and the power that constitutional judges have after the elections, there is no security certificate, and after the introduction of the property card, it has recently been seen that the President of the Constitutional Court, Separovic, is among the richest Croats, although he has never worked outside the state service system. On the basis of the election, it is undeniable that judges are elected to the two-thirds majority in this assembly, which is precisely the basis of political trade and political corruption between the HDZ and the SDP for the past 20 and a few years and by combining criteria and procedures, judges become permanently subject to political pressure. The new Law on the Judiciary must be elaborated precisely on the selection procedure, provide time to question candidates, the election in HS must go to the constituencies majority without political trade, introduce security certificates, ensure the true independence of constitutional judges from all authorities and ensure the conditions for service exclusively of public good, public interest. Croatia needs independent institutions, we need the same rule of law for the full anonymous and president or prime minister of state, Croatia needs a constitutional court without intellectual and ideological disabilities. I call on the government and parliament, Plenkovic and Jandrokovic to promote new people through parliament and government who will not be prisoners of the failed communist system, we need a just European Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u102918	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Ante Deur, who will present the positions of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u102919	Honorable Vice President, dear MPs and MPs. In the last days in the media space, we are facing inadmissible provocations that are discrediting, trying, but will not be able to discredit the Homeland War. We will not allow it, so today from this pay phone I will speak clearly, the Homeland War and I will speak what all Croatian patriots think. Homeland war and Croatian defenders are the foundation of modern Croatian states. I will also remind you of the verdict of the international court that confirmed that the Homeland War was just, defensive and liberating. The Croatian people and defenders have shown what it is about perseverance, perseverance and responsibility, as it defends the country. We'll never forget that. Unfortunately, I must stress that the fight against Croatian defenders did not end with the end of the Homeland War. Recently, Serbia's indictment and war crimes prosecutor's office against the Croatian Air Force commander and commander charged with bombing a refugee column on the Petrovac road in BiH, as yesterday's war crimes trial on the situation on the Petrovac road raises new issues. Every victim deserves respect and compassion, but I will remind you that this column was also the one in which not only were civilians on tractors but also military bounds. The Serbian truth about the exodus and the banishment of Serbs in Storm and the recent rocketling of the HRZ on Petrovica Road is also being denied by Prof. Dr. Miroslav Begovic, who was an officer of JNA and the Krajina Army during the Storm, now works as a professor at the Faculty of Security Studies. Last year on the show New Morning on Serbian Pink TV, he made it clear that a plane that bombed a column on the Petrovic road had a five-point star and was MIG of the Yugoslav Army. No one, but no one forced those people out as the Serbian prime minister put it. Belgrade has invited these people. Any doubt as to who he is and when he ordered the evacuation of Serbs, or who was responsible for their departure, was removed in Belgrade in '95. Mr. at the press conference he's at for the first time, so-called The government, with its advice to the press, showed the decision of the Supreme Council on the evacuation plan and the population from the municipalities of Benkovac, Knin, Obrovac, Drniš, Gračac, which were on 5 August '95. Then he brought their Supreme Council and signed Milan Martic. Also, I would like to quote the testimony of the army's intelligence officer, Slobodan Lazarevic, in court at The Hague, who then said, in front of the international court, everyone knew what it was in '91. happened to the Croats in Krajina. Then hundreds were killed and expelled and their victims and their houses, their shops burned down that the entire population was forced out. The more that Croatia is ethnically clean are ridiculous. It should remind the prime minister of the ethnic cleansing of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Posavina from Croats, Vukovar or genocide in Srebrenica, the exorcising of Croats from Vojvodina, all of which were committed by forces.../incomprehensible/... Serbian forces and Serbian politics. They were the official goals of the great Serb aggressor. After all, the process of peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Podunov testifies to peaceful Croatian politics because we were stronger then, and we were able to take the territory militaryly and bear witness to that and Serbian sources. After so many years, it is ridiculous, but it is necessary to invite Serbia to face its past, with the fact that they have launched aggression on Croatia and left terrible crimes. The fact is that more than 15,000 victims are left behind by the great Serbian aggression of Croatia. 151 mass grave found in Croatia, 1 400 individual tombs with victims of crimes committed by members of JNA and paramilitary Serb forces [[Intruder: Time.]] all victims in the context of Ukraine [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One million dead, three million wounded, 15 million expelled. [[Intruder: Mr. Deur.]] That's what you need to know. and this should be made aware and it should be reminded that those who perform today are, performing from large-scale Serbian positions. [[Intruder: Mr. Deur, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u103013	Ms. Anka Mrak Taritaš will be the position of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u103014	Thank you very much. Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. In an attempt to improve his image and image of the ministry he runs, Health Minister Willy Beros announced these days the introduction of mandatory systematic checks for all Croatian citizens. It's in itself in some vacuum and doesn't sound like a bad idea. Croatian citizens suffer from severe diseases more than the EU average, the life span is especially shorter for men and we die too often than in one significant part of them could have previously diagnosed and treated more successfully. The fact is, as a nation, we're not prone to prevention, we don't like to go to a doctor in fear of bad news, we have bad habits of life, and we're prone to unhealthy behavior. Systematic examinations would be a good thing for us, but then we come up with a hard reality, and it doesn't exactly promise. Croatia has little more than 3 million adults, and now all of them will be invited once a year, and some once every two years will receive a systematic call, and then in the ranks, they will start primary healthcare on a systematic basis from doctors who are already complaining that they are overstretched and overloaded, so they will now work another 3 million systematic ones. Sounds promising. I hope I'm wrong, but as things look from the current perspective, this systematically might eventually come down to the pressure measurement. Private healthcare was shut down right away. Why? Minister Beros says that it could systematically cost about 1,000 kuna per person, so for that money you get systematically at a private clinic today and on the market, especially if it's an action or if it's a promotion. Why wouldn't the ministry call a public call, say it gives a thousand kunas per systematic and list of items that must be included in it so that everyone who wants to work should report it. All right. Now, this imaginary citizen of ours who's been in the system and done a checkup, and it's been found that something's wrong, so we need further tests. It's good, it's also the idea of reviewing that catch problems in time until the chance to treat bigger, but how many 3 million people who have been on the review will have to go further in the process? 100,000, 300,000, 500,000, and then will end up on extreme waiting lists that are already on the other side of common sense, and certainly do not allow survival for those with severe illnesses. Nearly 900,000 people in Croatia are waiting for a search. On average, the first review waits 123 days, 4 months. Six months waiting for a diagnostic checkup. Magnetic brain resonance in KBC Zagreb for 427 days. Magnetic resonation of the spine on average for 10 months. UZV of the heart, prostate or breast for 4 to 7 months is expected on average. In KBC, Rijeka is waiting for three months for a colonoscopy, and now I could list etc., etc. And so something that may be in itself and a good idea breaks into a thousand pieces in a collision with reality. With Croatian reality or HDZ reality. The longest-ever prime minister, the longest-ever government, is excellent, but so the waiting lists for the review are the longest. Minister Berosch doesn't know, and he can't. It's already proven. He announced a health reform, his own colleagues asked him when finally some of it would be, and now we've got a quick funny marketing trick. Systematic examinations to be conducted by doctors who are already not able to do their job, and if you don't get something from God, you're going to the waiting lists for 100, 200 or 500 days. Nothing like this will ever become and Croatia will never go forward. Instead of saving Dr. Berosch with some smoke bombs, have someone tell him to start with real problems. Where are the girls billions at every turn? Why are waiting lists longer than ever? If only those two things started to work out, he'd find time and money for the systematics. And until then, in good HDZ style, one more thing is actually a good thing, it's going to fall into the mud of incompetence.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u103159	Mr Marin Miletic, position of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u103160	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Radin, Mr. Bukarica, dear colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. We've talked a lot about inflation and crisis these days and weeks. I once again appeal to the ruling. In the last 14 years, the biggest inflation, the prices are wild, the prices are rising, the wages are the same, the euro is coming to us. We prayed at the MOST club to stop by introducing the euro until everything stabilized, but the ruling one refused along with part of the opposition, so here's another appeal to do what you can for our pensioners, workers, for entrepreneurs. I'd like to talk to you today about the consequences of the lockdown you're keeping quiet about. It is now evident, scientific journals say that all measures have preserved a total of slightly less than 0.2% of the population. 0.2% were preserved, and on the other hand millions of people were killed by the consequences of closure, millions of people. Lancet announced that more than 3,000 diabetics in the UK died directly and only because of the consequences of closure. It's a science paper. It's not Grandma Wang. So in the text Diabetes and endocrinology, they accuse the measures that are responsible for the death of these people. So we do, the measures saved 0.2% of the people, saved, and millions of people died. Who's going to answer for that? Our generations of students have been destroyed, our education is ruined, our culture, entrepreneurship, the generations of athletes have been destroyed, mutilated, and we today, Croatia today spends millions of kunas on testing. Who's being tested? Why? Where's the money going? Well, every day if we had opened a million kunas, we could have built a little house on Banovina. People, it's been two years since that terrible earthquake and they still have nowhere to live. But we have visions in Croatia. Vijac Jonjic, e.g. He says he's afraid of what's coming in the fall. We have a German health minister, let's remind ourselves, who says that in the fall come owls more dangerous than deltas and more contagious than omicrons, that's what they said, people, I quote them. We have a health system that's in big trouble. Minister Beroš announces mandatory health checks. So is he normal? What's this man on? Why isn't someone helping him? And our patients can wait for key tests after eight months. In the daily press, your patient testifies that she has to have both her breasts removed for a tumor and waits for a year for surgery. So who's crazy about it? Our health system is falling apart, he's in big trouble, he says we're going to introduce mandatory checks. For what? What kind of interest? What, that some doctors are doing it in private and pulling money and making money, which allowed them to have a clienteleist system, and that's why only Minister Beros is responsible. And he's gonna make an account for it. Also, sitting here amongst our colleagues, I won't mention them, I'll just say that the radical left is, so from We can! who attacked me and my colleague Bolt here, so on Wednesday they screamed at us, put on masks, put on masks, they were vaccinated three times. That's what they claim. On Thursday, headquarters said no more masks should be worn, they came here on Friday without masks in the Parliament. What genius. So do these people have logic? And now that team would like to lead anything. So you see how they lead Zagreb, they turn it into a European waste capital. They can't lead themselves, they can't lead anything else. God forbid, where would those radicals take us? I asked the prime minister, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, if the Republic of Croatia has signed any agreements, a document with the World Health Organization that would in any way oblige the Republic of Croatia in any way regarding the adoption of certain policies, decisions, future ones, as announced, of the pandemic. I hope the prime minister answers me, and I reminded him a little on Twitter, if he's his employees there, and then I'll meet the Croatian public. What some team is making fun of and doing something, Mr. Klaus Schwab said, "We have penetrated to the governess." That's what he said, not me. So you do, I'm going to put all this stuff that I'm saying links, these people's statements. So, in Croatia, the government comes from the people and belongs to the people and will not have any globalist organization, however much money and as much power as it has, rule the citizens of the Republic, but let the masters build on the party, go to the elections, make out how difficult they are, so if the people give them the trust, then let them do what they want, and otherwise in Croatia they won't go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u103235	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Urša Raukar Gamulin will be the position of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u103236	Thank you. So, the last day of the graduation class throughout Croatia is traditionally marked by the crazy day of the so-called day. Noriad. It is a long tradition for students to be uniformed each day for recognition, and to send a message with their clothes, there are all sorts of ideas, most often related to the professions for which the students were educated. However, in one Slavonski-Brodski high school, a classmate of Croatian language professors considered it much more important to encourage her students to a Ustasha greeting and graduation clothes that associate with Ustasha uniforms. She was happy and satisfied, even proud when the whole class led her to paint with her right up. What did she mean, what did she teach these young people? To assume that she thought it was patriotic, and what was patriotic about the constitution? Organized torture, slaughter, killing people, because of religion, nationality, political beliefs, is it patriotic, is it patriotic to sell to Italians almost all of Dalmatia and most of the island, which is patriotic in the constitution? The constitution is a national betrayal and a bloody crime, an uprising is a horror and a disgrace. It is not unfortunately a lonely outburst in Croatia. The Croatian government's envoy recently said that there would be no Croatian state either on April 10th. The Croatian government still does not have the strength, which is even worse or willless to clearly and unequivocally determine against the Ustasha outbursts of various politicians, singers, church figures, and now professors. The Prime Minister's famous commission gave a great line, the Ustasha greeting is forbidden, but it's allowed. Small political calculations are more important than a clear departure from the most embarrassing and horrible episode in Croatian history, the addition to right radicals is more important than the positioning of Croatia clearly to the side of antifascism and victory in World War II with all other civilized countries in Europe where it belongs. A professor of literature in Slavonski Brod has been sanctioned, will not be able to be a classmate of the next generation, will he answer and remains to be seen before the law. But I invite her to watch with her students every new generation the film "Dnevnik Diana Budisavljevic", a film about a woman who saved between 8 and 10 thousand Serbian children from a certain death in Ustasha camps. It's a true story about the best people in the worst of times. There are also archives of Ustasha horrors in that film. I believe and hope that after that, she will never think again that young people are being seduced into the path of excelling hate, crime, torture and death. I call on her to read "Jama" I. G. Kovačić along with her students, an earthquakeous magnificent poem for which someone wrote "and while the last man speaks Croatian and human language in general, the pit will be a permanent condemnation of the crimes and anthem of man's freedom, truth and beauty, anthem of human dignity". I call on the class to return to the beauty of poetry and humanism today in the shadow of the terrible war in Ukraine, in the world of poverty, injustice, hunger, it is even more important to direct young people to peacemaking, respecting others and different, to solidarity with weaker, powerless, needy, to fight for economic and justice, to respect the rights of workers and workers, the rights of women, the rights of national minorities, the rights of the LGBT community, the rights of refugees. It is the modern antifascism that we are fighting for today to keep people sensitive to other people's suffering, to other people's torment, to true justice and truth with the desire to build a better and fairer society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u103310	You, too. Mr. Marijan Pavliček, the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u103311	Dear Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. The EU is at a time of the biggest energy crisis since it exists, it is at a time of the greatest financial uncertainty and is in the highest inflation rates over the past 20 years and, of course, all EU citizens feel it, and of course, Croatian citizens do. In fact, in the last year, we have witnessed an explosion of almost all the prices of both food and construction materials, as well as transports which unfortunately did not follow the wages. Namely, the average net salary paid in Croatia according to the latest data we have for February was 7.452 kuna, which is 5.9% higher compared to the same period last year, but in real terms it is drastically less because the purchasing power of citizens has greatly weakened. Most of this is felt primarily in the price of fuel included in the prices of all final products, especially in the transport prices. In fact, with the latest purchase of a liter of eurosuper 95, it was 13.85 while the euro-elevator liter was 13.14 lip and are back on historically high borders. When compared to last year's period or May last year, then we come to the conclusion that the fuel in that year accumulated by as much as 35%, 35% then the euro was 10.25 and the euro diesel was 9.72. When compared the price of fuel with our neighbouring countries again Croatia is far the most expensive. On average, in the Republic of Slovenia, fuel is cheaper for kuna, kuna and half a liter, in the Republic of Serbia for some two kunas per liter, while in Hungary currently only 9.20 is 40 percent less than in Croatia. A few days ago, on Friday, the Hungarian government decided that these subsidized fuel prices were only valid for citizens of Hungary, for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the citizens of Slovenia, while all the other EU citizens, as well as for Croats, would pay a far more expensive price for fuel in Hungary. And where are all these EU regulations on the equality of all its citizens now? Everything falls into the water and no one will break Victor Orban to change this decision because Victor Orban has proved to be the prime minister who cares most about the interests of his people and the state he represents in the past few months. And even after these latest sanctions introduced by the EU, Viktor Orban again came out as a winner because he does not have to continue to place an embargo on Russian oil imports, and will be provided through Croatia with additional means of the pipeline and the Hungarians will still have the cheapest oil within the EU. When we look at all this, we ask our Economy Minister Filipovic who yesterday was not able to answer the simple question of journalists, what will happen with further fuel prices in Croatia. Today, it highlights the government’s decision to limit excise duties and limit trade margins. The new decision has not yet been reached, nor has the minister been able to answer this simple question. Croatia must intervene more clearly and efficiently in the price of fuel. Fuels must be drastically cheaper and Croatia still has space because almost 40% of the total price goes right to VAT and to excise duties means everything that goes into the state budget, and the state budget is filled and better than expected. Half of March I asked Minister Maric here how much state revenue he had received from VAT, then he said a billion kuna more than in the same period last year, today that amount is around 2 billion kuna. Therefore, we have room for additional intervention in fuel prices. And we should keep in mind that this fuel price is the most important factor in determining all other prices of goods and services. It's the only way we're going to save this bad standard of our citizens so we don't sink into the financial and economic crisis anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u103384	It is now up to Mr Hrvoje Zekanovic, who will stand as an independent representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u103385	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, there are a lot of issues, so I'm going to open a few topics in this free speech. A few months ago, Vladimir Putin attacked Ukraine and said that the reason for the attack on Ukraine against a sovereign, independent state was a famous denakification. So, looking there Nazis by Ukraine, trying to free Ukraine from the Nazis. I'll pull one interesting parallel, some will like it, some won't, some will understand what I'm talking about. We also have in Croatia the same witch hunt thank God not in the way Putin does, but in Croatia we have an antifascism that keeps looking for fascists and in Croatia I don't know, I don't even know the Nazis and always someone sees them somewhere, so in fact this most ridiculous situation is when in Slavonski Brod during the noriad of twenty young men and girls with high arms in the air because they have black T-shirts and shirts written for noriade are ready to be declared Nazis. Saved all antifascists in Croatia, saved all witch hunters. Suddenly, they finally found Ustashas in Croatia, they found fascists and we're going hunting, and these fascists, or Nazis, whatever they were, are nothing but happy seniors of Slavonski-ships if I'm not cheating on vocational schools. And that's Croatia today. The other thing that she marked last week, and it's been talked about now, maybe not to that extent, and it's actually terrible. It's about a decision by the High Administrative Court to allow the adoption of children in this case by a homosexual couple. I wonder if it is already allowed, here I will refer both the court and the Croatian Parliament a request that the team of voluntary fire departments can also adopt children, that the team who drinks beer on the wall in front of the store can also adopt children. I don't see why someone who isn't in a marriage community, where a community of women and men has no right to adopt children or if we already allow it not to do discrimination, let anyone, any association, any community, any individual, be able to adopt children whenever they think of it. But this story goes well on the hand of the bridge, more specifically, CAN WE manage the city of Zagreb with the fact that I would no longer call the city Zagreb, I would call it Mariupoli because, with all due respect and piety to the victim Mariupoli and everyone who suffered there today, Zagreb and Mariupoli have many similarities. Only Zagreb and Mariupoli happen are the unplanned waters, geysers, huge flames of torches, people are suffering in fires, so Mayor Tomašević and his society will say it is not their fault, it is the guilt of some previous authorities. But my people, you've been in those chairs for a year and you haven't done anything. This has never happened before in the city of Zagreb. I am not Milan Bandic's lawyer, however, what is happening today in Zagreb, as Zagreb stagnates and goes back unseen, and the only thing Tomašević knows is exactly the same denacification, it can be done again by the character and work of Comrade Tito, will try to put him back where he doesn't belong. Let him keep him in his window, let the citizens of the city of Zagreb not hear about the name and name of that man. He knows how to paint benches in color lengths, he can hang flag lengths all over Zagreb, and besides, one big or absolutely nothing. So, let them declare me whatever they want, I will make out of my place the same thing both young men and girls did in Slavonski Brod and say about Croatia ready. If they're fascists and Nazis, then so am I!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u103386	It's a good thing we didn't go any further. Thank you very much. Honorable MPs and MPs, please just sit down for a moment. Before we begin our work, I would like to invite you to pay our respects to the late colleague Antiplasonic, former representative in the 9th meeting of HS. Please stand up. - A moment of silence - May it be his glory. Let's start by taking a stand on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. The first is Mr. Stipo Mlinarić on behalf of the National Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u103431	The case of four of our pilots, Daniel Borovic, Vladimir Mikc, Zdenko Radulj and Željko Jelenić showed all the misery of Croatian politics and the bear system of homeland security which, as we can see, exists only on paper. On politically mounted and legally pointless Serbian charges, we in the Homeland Movement and I personally warned in time and with full right can say that in this case, as unfortunately many before them, I did not turn out to be a general after the battle. For the naked beginner Vucic, his personal, grandparents and prime minister, Ana Brnabic, small Sloba Dacic or Banja Luka... Dodika, we Croats, if we are unique, serious and complex, we have a long time ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If our defenders, in this case, pilots, senior Croatian Air Force officers intend to continue to prosecute the mounted political indictments by serving Belgrade's self-proclaimed jurisdiction with the assistance of the so-called so-called assistance. The justice of Dodik's parade of Republika Srpska, will unilaterally be declared undesirables in Croatia. From the accession negotiations in Brussels, we can make them a real hell if we want to, and the Serbian president as a persona non grate will neither be able to come to Zagreb to beg for forgiveness and mercy. Don't think I'm having any illusions that something like this is really going to happen. Plenkovic and his government are unable to pull such a move for several reasons. In Brussels, however, even the chief of HDZ slipped a little bit yesterday, and finally, the appropriate Brnabićki admitted that Croatia was not ethnically cleansed by Serbs because if it were, then they would not have their representatives in the parliament and the authorities. De facto, Plenkovic finally spoke one great truth, and it reads, Pupovčev and Hadzic's SDSS in HS and government are not representing the interests of Croatian Serbs but Belgrade. Second and more importantly, while we are talking about Pupovac, yesterday in the middle of Zagreb, money from the state budget was organised against four Croatian pilots who were also spoken by the informal spokeswoman of the Belgrade Prosecutor's Office for the so-called "Belgrade". war crimes and close associate Sava Štrbca Janko Velimirovic, the man was Martic's militia and rebel terrorist, and the Croatian state is now paying him to be in the middle of Zagreb, even though the videolincom from Banja Luka is a large-serb mythomanic lie against what they say is a genocide of Ustasha airmen. I ask from here from this pay phone, no language hair, and Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Bear. When you swear so much to help Croatian defenders and in this case to our persecuted pilots, who can these people trust? You or your coalition partners? So you're sitting in the same government, one of them allegedly contesting the charges, and the other one's advocating it. Finally, when I was talking about Vucic being a persona non grate in Croatia, I had no illusions at all that the problem would be solved because those who still work for Belgrade in the middle of Zagreb, who are the real political bosses in Serbia, and only Plenkovic's tenants are in the Ban Courts. Therefore, the Homeland Movement believes that, under the urgency of this assembly, a legislative proposal should be made on the withdrawal of Croatian citizenship to all those who work against our national interests and Croatian security. We will propose it, and all of you who really care about being a safe, serious and strong state, raise your hand for, regardless of your party membership. When Milorad Pupovac again performs in the morning programme of some Belgrade television and together with Sava Strbec is pushing against Croatian pilots who contributed to our magnificent and as a tear to the pure military victory in Storm, he must know that he is risking the loss of Croatian citizenship. If you think my proposal, don't give God, intolerant, unusual and undemocratic, read the free Israeli Law on Nationality of 2008 which gives the court the right to take away citizenship in cases of breach of loyalty to the state of Israel. The cradle of democracy, the United States, has had a similar law since 1950, and in order not to be called now by colleagues from the left, I call on them to finally agree with me and to see what Austrian Social Democrats whose representatives proposed to take away citizenship last year in the federal parliament in Vienna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u103432	Thank you very much. Thank you, too. Thank you. Mr Milorad Pupovac will be the position of the SDSS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u103522	Dear Mr. Vice President, respected colleagues and colleagues, a Vienna proverb in Latin form says hit the transous hit-salt, is attributed to Ezop as a Greek satirist and public critic, directed to those who boast, heroes, heroes or do not know where they jump and where they should jump. Our rhodos is here in Croatia and around us. Our rhodos is in the area of Southeast Europe, which is a restless, unsettled, unintegrated space. And it's our interest to contribute to that space calming down to the extent that we can. To settle in accordance with the standards that we've been doing ourselves, and she's been harassing again, and then we've tried to take care of it again. It's our duty to help integrate that space. Especially in today's day. We can't do much in Libya or Mali, or Syria, unfortunately, or Ukraine, but we can do it here. That's our interest. No country, if it's not in great need, is looking for friends and making friends away from itself, but is wasting a lot of energy that there are no enemies in its neighborhood and no enmity. It's wisdom from ancient Greece, not from Ezop, but from Solomon certainly, a great statesman and a great leader. So our interest is not to be a border. In history, we've been borderline. And that is an expression of the necessity to be at the edge of the world, but if we don't have to, if that world is already moved east of our border and remains the archipelago of a European space that is the most like European history and perhaps the European future if Europe is not smart enough. As in this last crisis, she's not very smart at all. It is our interest to move that border, and we can do so if we open channels of cooperation and if we transport from EU member states to someone who will contribute to the shift of EU borders to the east. We've stopped at that as much as Europe has. Some of us neighbouring nations and states and Serbia and Bosnia have stopped because of our internal problems and Montenegro, but we have remained only in the declarative positions. And that needs to change because now's an opportunity and now it's an obligation. Here we can prove ourselves to be a true European nation that protects and spreads a European space that remains unintegrated. And teach Europe to contribute to this small space with less than 2% of the population of Europe integrates as soon as possible and to ensure lasting peace for us and our neighbours, as well as for themselves. As for something I didn't mean to talk about, I'll just say this. Those who speak of ethnic cleansing today forget that we have continued ethnic cleansing, but ourselves, Serbs, Croats. After the Serbs first worked with the Croats and the Croats worked with the Serbs. Those who say someone here needs to take away their citizenship, if it's not me, and I am, Go ahead. [[Thank you very much. Time.]] It is good to be apart from those who destroy their patricians with hatred for others and different ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u103562	Mr Sinisa Hajdaš Doncic will be the position of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u103563	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. So the border cost in the economy is the cost of saying I'm going to produce an additional unit of a particular product, and so on in HEP, now I'm going to stress why I say it again in HEP. Their move regarding electricity collection is at least controversial. I emphasized this already last time that Croatia over 30% of electricity actually gets from hydro potentials, so which are long amortised, so basically the additional cost of producing one unit is actually equal to zero. And when we count that and Krško where the price hasn't changed, when we count that truth minimally, but yet there are photovoltaics and wind power plants, so we get about 65% of the energy production that actually prices should be more or less fixed. However, HEP, the government and the ministry are not leading a consistent policy and are not actually exploiting the internal potential of the domestic energy sector to mitigate price growth. We mentioned on behalf of the SDP that it is electrical energy to entrepreneurs, so I'm going to say it up to almost 200 percent, and I'm going to point out that problem once again, so-called. the marginal cost of production not used in order to mitigate the inflation. But I'll look back a little bit on the so-called. energy transition and at the cost of citizens, of course it is known that for one normal to say energy transition takes time and investment, it is impossible to do so in the short term. However, the government has to launch public investments, and public investments are not cathedrals in the desert, so they are not infrastructure projects that are being built, and without some cost-free benefit analysis and which, in fact, in the short and medium term, do not bring certain benefits to the local community, neither Croatia, nor to the gross social product, but represent, in the initial part, a large cost. What we, as SDP, would suggest to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, HEP, therefore to all stakeholders who participate in the Croatian energy market is in fact to abandon the current way of creating prices, and also to one active policy involving actually public investment, public investment of the device to start three things for the citizens. So, first of all, they release investments in solar power plants up to 50 kW of VAT payments, which means that in the simplest way they give a boost in height, so by some calculation of 20% of the investment and thus through public investments, through the integration of the sector and therefore in Croatia there are three or four even I will say companies, factories that make solar plants. So the first wave of investments would start. Now, of course that measure should also be applied with the simplification of all procedures, so to simplify all procedures for citizens, so to loosen up therefore the HEP. Because watch out in HEP there are two people who issue permits, and yet I say the devil in the details they are in Osijek. Very interesting for a system like HEP. The second should allow for permanent open tenders for co-financing of construction with a single co-financing rate of 25 % of solar power plant investments instead of up to now competitions, so that the occasional ones, therefore not continuous, go to the fastest finger principle. And you saw today in one day's press what happens to competitions that basically go the fastest finger. So you have bots, you have different points to say software machinations, where actually your best often don't win. And this proposed, unique rate of 25% with the previous measure that I said release from VAT would be sufficient, so for all categories of citizens, it means that at present what is most unfavourable is becoming more favourable both in the Adriatic Croatia and in continental Croatia. And this co-financing would allow us to have solar power plants both on existing buildings and in new construction. And in the end, it should be established so-called. A dedicated financial mechanism for solar power plants that would be available to citizens in the form of favourable loans with a low interest rate of 1%, and then freed, with a 20% incentive and with a deal with business banks, such a mechanism would actually be one of the stoppers of public investment in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u103691	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Katarina Nemet will be the position of the IDS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u103692	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We are getting closer to the main tourist season from which we wanted it or not largely dependent on the Croatian economy, the tourist numbers are already very good, and booking for the continuation of the season and the main season gives us the right to hope that we will have a very good tourist year, which is once again, very important for Croatia's economic picture, for its GDP, for many of our citizens, but also for public budgets from local to state. However, Croatian tourism also this year, as well as a few past ones, faces a burning problem, the lack of workers in almost all segments of tourism and catering business. One assessment says that about 35,000 workers will be missing in the tourism sector this summer in almost all interests of the tourism industry. This problem, as I have already said, has been present for years, and it is quite obvious that it will follow us for a long time. We had an imminent entry into the EU of Croatian citizens who had the opportunity to resolve their existence in more developed countries of Europe in which there are better wages, working conditions, living standards, in short in countries where they have seen a perspective unlike their homeland in Croatia. For the most part, there are no more tourist workers from the middle who have spent many years in the human pools of the tourism industry, for a long time there have been Slavonia, and in recent years these countries have been in an environment like BiH, Serbia, and Macedonia, but these people's swimming pools have been practically exhausted today, so they are increasingly reaching out to workers from distant countries and other continents. It is a complex problem that cannot be solved overnight, it should be thought of in the long term, while at the same time with certain rapid measures to minimise the negative consequences. In this direction, now that it has already allowed such a situation to occur, the state must act where it has competences and tools, the labour market needs to be liberalised, and the process of obtaining work permits and employment of workers to which employers somehow do. However, the future of the economy, including tourism, cannot be built on the import of workers, and in parallel with short-term measures, the problem should also be approached in the long-term plan and strategy. I will convey here the opinion of the profession that says that exactly the state in collaboration with employers and trade unions should draw up a strategy for a complete economy, and answer the question of how many workers from which professions are needed. By the way, the same professional public recently found in a public research survey that our approach to this topic is also a verse, as tourism itself is happening to us in a song. This conclusion of the profession came to me shortly after I found it myself from this pay phone and thus upset Prime Minister Plenkovic, I am afraid that he was even more affected by the confirmation and my missing thesis by people who deal with tourism at a professional or scientific level. But we return to the problem of tourism workers, the professional public and the tourism sector agree that the long-term solution lies in the long-term preparation of the education system, while predetermining sectoral needs. In addition, the state should further regulate the labour market and, within its capabilities, set up frameworks for workers to receive appropriate conditions and adequate compensation for their work. Also, employers must join this new paradigm in the labour market without a figurine in their pocket, to be honest, and not only declareably accept that the worker is the key to business success, that without good and good quality, but a satisfied and duly rewarded worker has no perspective in any industry or tourism. We need to understand that the time has come when workers have been treated by the principle if you don't have so many others who will, and yet someone has noticed well whether there can be any change in that matter at all as long as people, workers and workers continue to call themselves a labor force without pardons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u103729	Mr Silvano Hrelja will be the position of the Club of Representatives of HNS, HSU and independent representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u103730	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, esteemed pensioners and pensioners sitting in front of TV screens at this time, or as the former labour force members said, as counterpart Nemet or even worse active participants in the labour market, which is also an excellent term for the human race, it is a matter of human destiny, of people, of their families, of workers, of employers who are available to us with all their intellectual and physical capital, knowledge and skills, so little humanity in this area would not hurt us. You pensioners and pensioners who daily encourage me to talk about the problems of the pensioners I repay with one of my dilemmas. Please write to me if I have been elected here to the HS to talk about your problems and everything remains the same or have I been chosen to propose laws in cooperation with the government and to solve your problems one by one? I'm facing the situation of whatever I'm starting, so why didn't you give priority to this, everyone has the smartest as a football selector, everyone's itching just his problem, just his problem. One that hasn't been penalized retroactively, the other why we have a penalization of the lowest pension, the third why you pay 3% of the health contribution to pensions that are higher than the average, each itch just his problem. I know and I'm saying this not to speak but from my experience, I know that everything I've done in these 19 years, and it's not a little bit despite those who think it's a little bit of work in HS, it's been paid back to pensioners, most of them enjoying an allowance of 4 to 27% and 27% since 2009, respectively, 27% for all pensioners who are later retired. Why do I point that out, it's a distant past? So I point out for another reason, I point out that in this result, the majority who received the increase in pensions was silent that no one would even know that she got, and the one who because of the low contributions, because of the little internship remained in the protection of the lowest pensions and she was loud. In damages, those who were short damaged were loud because they were all expecting despite their 100 kunas and 6% remaining permanently inside. I say this now preventively, on my responsibility I went into agreement with the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to resolve family pensions. I expect a second week promotion of this model, this is the first time that will happen in retirement policy that the target group of them somewhere around 250,000 is difficult to assess because we don't have enough data so everyone will be in plus this time relative to today's state at least 10%, but trust me categorically hard from this place and there will be dissatisfaction because it has already begun. Instead of saying, yeah, let's solve this problem another one, it's already started to get everybody's pensions up. Because we have estimated that family pensions per total and individual contribution payments are the weakest and one of the lowest and we cannot afford in this society to survive or survive after the death of a married partner, usually pensioners, fall within the poverty zone that we have not tried to define and define which is the area of poverty and we have not organised ourselves to have individual and family censorships in this fight against poverty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u103731	Thank you, too. Thank you. Ms Natalija Martincevic, the club of representatives of HSLS and Reformists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u103752	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today I would like to point out again one important and major problem of lack of a clear long-term concern strategy that would respond to the needs of older people in Croatia. Croatia's public expenditure for long-term care of older people is less than 1% of GDP, and it is known that we are a country whose population is older than the EU average. This trend of ageing our population has been growing for 70 years, the state systematically ignores it and not only as regards homes for older and powerless but I will talk about them today and unfortunately we have a relatively derelict and outdated system that can hardly respond to today's needs of care for the older population. In Croatia today, we have 45 county homes and 3 state homes where there are about 11,000 people. There are also private homes that accommodate some 6,000 old people. Of course, the needs for the accommodation of older people are much higher, so waiting lists exceed 72000 people, and in county homes depending on the types of rooms and accommodation are expected on average for 8 years. Taking into account all of the above information, i.e. the accommodation capacity of all of our homes for older and powerless, we come up with information that there is room for only 3,68% of older people in all homes together. But in addition to long waiting lists, lack of capacity and different prices there is also an uneven distribution in the financing of county homes by the state. So the Varazdin home for the elderly and powerless has been systematically cut off for years by three million kunas a year. This resulted in the loss of more than 25 million kuna for older and powerless people in Varazdin, as the country pays 40% less than other homes in Croatia per user. The Varazdin County completed a phase of investment in pensioners' homes, which primarily include an energy recovery of 33.3m kuna, mostly from EU funds, in the past term. The above funds have been renovated and decorated and roofed and facades, heating systems, hot water cooling, new boiler room, solar collectors, ice lights, two new lifts, etc. So the big demands here have been made, but in front of the house is an internal arrangement. Just to point out that not only did the above not only greatly improve the quality of the lives of all pensioners and their working staff in the home but the energy recovery achieved a significant savings amounting to as much as 500 000 kuna in 2021 compared to 2019. I place two very clear demands in front of the competent ministry and, especially in front of the new Minister Piletic. The first is to secure equal funds for the retirement home in Varazdin as you pay the rest of the homes in Croatia and do so immediately, because it is totally unacceptable that the home for the elderly in Varazdin will be suspended and a month more for the funds that belong to it. And secondly, help and direct the new mayor of the Varazdin County of Mr. Strick of HDZ to move from the dead post after a year and to do at least something at the second stage of home arrangements or internal home restoration. Today, the presidents of pensioners from our county are crying and wondering how it is possible that the new mayor in a year did not do anything and did not invest much in further home recovery, only what he did, of course, to replace the existing director and set up of course the director of HDZ. The former government has prepared, reported, done, invested 33.3 million kunas, no new government has invested in a year, nor has it been able to patch up any holes, or as water leaks, so they write such a statement. So Minister, help the mayor and tell him how to patch up three holes in his home because he obviously doesn't know it himself, and then let the Ministry help prepare a project to rebuild his home because if he hasn't been able to do anything in a year, but nothing at all, believe me, he really needs your help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u112999	Okay. We are going to the first item of the agenda of today's work: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Professional Education, second reading, P.Z. No. 249; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 249. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. in relation to Art. 172. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, this is P.Z. No. 249. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply, meaning that amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Mr. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Education, Mr. Tomislav Paljak, is with us, so I ask him for an introduction. Here you go. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Stanka, where, who. I didn't, Pavlich. Here you go, Mr. Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113000	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State. We are looking for a 10 minute break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns club to consult again on the final proposal of this law, but to point out that one of the burning problems in the Croatian education system is precisely that Croatian education does not follow the labour market. This is especially true in the case of professional craftsmanship, and most of all before the start of the tourist season where we are going to introduce 30,000 workers from abroad cooks, waiters, waiters because we simply do not have them on the domestic labour market. On the other hand, we are aware that for years if not for decades we have a growing number of children enrolled in professional professions compared to labour market needs. There is a certain shift in this law here, but once again we would like to point out that it is inconceivable that, on the other hand, the Ministry of Economy at the end of December of this year informs that it abolishes scholarships for deficiting occupations, means professional for secondary schools. 8,700 children have lost their scholarship because European money has dried up or because no financial plans have been adopted for the new operational period since 2021-2027. It's about 160 million kuna. It is regrettable that the state is unable to provide 160 million kuna in its own budget for the scholarships of deficits and thus encourage students to enter the very professions needed on the labour market. So imagine how children and parents who, for the good part, also because of this financial cake, were enrolled in deficit crafts and lost their jobs in half of their schooling. This just shows that in Croatia there is absolutely no strategy in anything, nor in education.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113001	Thank you. Mr. Emil Daus explains the pause on behalf of the IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113002	Thank you so much. I am looking for a 10 minute break on behalf of the IDS Club to further consult and to highlight some of the things we tried in the first reading, and therefore measure 2 point 2 to which this law also calls for support for participants by setting up a scholarship system for deficiting interests, especially for participants of vocational education systems in less developed environments and regions of the Republic of Croatia. And what about the support of the students in those more developed environments and regions for deficiting occupations? What kind of message are we sending these students? What is less worth of those in Rovinj, Pula and Zagreb, Rivers than some others? And while there will be more discrimination against the citizens of the Republic of Croatia by territoriality? If there were words here and were to put emphasis on being supportive for students of weaker property, I think everyone would unanimously support it. But don't work and share children based on territorial belongings and thus provide support, but we've already learned about communal infrastructure for other things is punished by those advanced. Well, it's not the children's fault where they live. And one more thing we'd like to point out, we want master craftsmen or the accumulation of bureaucracy. Well, no one can explain to me that a craftsman who's been on the market for 20, 30 years as a master and by his work he's creating a market can't teach a new student from his high school trade. What else does he have to pass? Is it our goal to create masters or bureaucrats? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113003	Thank you, too. They approve of the breaks, these two, and now we have another break actually seeking a break from Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic on behalf of HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113004	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of HS. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club in order to point out once again that vocational education in the Republic of Croatia plays an important role in development and economy and crafts and entrepreneurship and to remind that Croatia has one of the largest proportions of students at the secondary level of vocational education in Europe, which is almost 70% somewhere, and this particular part of the system needs to be paid particular attention. Therefore, this final proposal for amending and supplementing the Law on Professional Education constitutes a legislative basis for all the key reforms needed in the system of vocational education and certainly this reform I will remind the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2020-2024 programme, but also the NPOO in the period from 2021-2026. and, of course, these amendments and additions are fully accompanied by relevant policies and processes for the development of vocational education at EU level. This reform, therefore, will cover all stakeholders in the system through teachers, employers, school founders and other relevant partners in the system, and the key changes made by this law are precisely in the field of learning based on work in the field of planning enrolment in vocational programmes in line with the labour market in the field of improving quality assurance systems in the system of vocational education and what is therefore very important are regulated and more clearly defined by the scholarship system. So it just takes a good read of the law to see what good and news it brings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113005	Thank you. And this break approves. And the replicas, they can't replica... No, they don't, they don't go replicas, they don't go replicas looking for a break. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What are you looking for another break? What? ... And to him, wait just a little bit must first come here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113006	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs, that there is a final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Education, and I would first of all like to thank you for the constructive debate during the first reading as well as for the proposals and opinions presented which we have accepted and supplemented for the second reading. As I pointed out during my first reading, vocational education in the Republic of Croatia plays an important role in the development of the economy and entrepreneurship, and it is also a traditional commitment of Croatian students who finish primary education. Since Croatia has one of the largest proportions of secondary school students in Europe, almost 70% of them should pay particular attention to this segment in order to further strengthen and improve the entire system. To that end, the final proposal for a law constitutes a legislative basis for implementing the reform of vocational education, which is also foreseen by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2020 to 2024 and the National Recovery and Resistance Plan for the period 2021 to 2026. It is important to note that the proposed amendments and additions to the laws are fully followed by both relevant policies and processes of developing vocational education at EU level, especially those that contribute to the provision of qualified labour force, their faster adaptation of job performance and their mobility. The reform of vocational education, which will take place even more strongly and faster in the coming years, will include all stakeholders in the system and students and teachers, employers, school founders as well as other competent partners in the system. And the key goal of the reform is to train young people to learn through work and in the working environment, to encourage them to think and solve work tasks and to give them key competences that will allow them to adapt and new circumstances in the workplace and in society in general. This final draft of the law is going towards a quality upgrade and improvement of the existing system so that each student can have a better position in the labour market and therefore better social status and personal well-being. Let me, therefore, once again highlight the key changes that bring about changes and additions to the Professional Education Act, which will directly affect the quality and relevance of the system. The first key change concerns strengthening work-based learning and stronger integration between schools and employers. Namely, with the aim of raising the quality of learning and teaching in the work process in the school institution, the final law defines learning based on work. As a work-based learning, it will enable better integration of vocational school and employers, and in cooperation with employers, it will actively monitor labour market dynamics and changes in technological processes. By introducing work-based learning unlike the previous practical teaching and training that has mostly been performed in high school, employers become equal participants in building skills for young people. Employers are expected to be active participants in the teaching process, so their powers of these amendments and additions to the law are extended in a way that it is clearly established that the mentor is the learner’s employer in the work process. In order to strengthen the inclusion of the real sector in the educational process, as well as to raise the quality of mentors' work on changes and additions to the laws, introduce a commitment to mentors to pass a test proving the basic knowledge of teaching students, which is carried out on the basis of programmes brought by the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development. Namely, the current legal solution imposes an obligation on all persons working with students and even persons with employers to acquire pedagogical competences according to the 225-hour programme and for almost a year. According to the new legislative proposal, a new programme is being introduced which is substantially adapted to the mentors of employers and is within 40 hours and one to two months, and we expect this adjustment to contribute to greater motivation of employers in participation in vocational education. For employers, mentors will be allowed permanent professional training which has not been prescribed so far, and this will not be an additional cost for employers. Namely, the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education under its regular activity will allow for the professional training of mentors in the employer according to their needs, making sure that the training programmes enable the upgrade of skills needed to work with students. For the first time, this law also provides for the possibility of professional supervision of the exercise of learning based on the work of the employer. The aim of the expert supervision is to improve the quality of work-based learning and to ensure all relevant conditions for students who carry out part of their vocational education in the working environment. In relation to the text of the law in the first reading, provision has been made which prescribes expert supervision in such a way that the prescribed obligation is drawn up both the content and the findings of the expert supervision carried out, to which it is supplied and the procedures are prescribed in the event that the identified irregularities are not removed within the specified time limit. The next key change relates to the establishment of mechanisms and criteria to encourage students to choose those professional qualifications that are relevant to the labour market, thus ensuring that the education sector provides the economy with a greater number of qualified and sought-out workforce. In order to monitor the current trends of the economy and the needs of employers to increase labour in specific professions, education programmes are first introduced to schools, their founders and other stakeholders to plan to enrol students in vocational programmes. The planning of enrolment will need to be coordinated with the recommendations of the Croatian Employment Institute for Educational Registration Policy, which are adopted in cooperation and in accordance with the needs of employers. So this new legal framework creates assumptions for optimising the number of vocational education programmes as well as modernisation, and the development of new curricula documents with an emphasis on green and digital transition. The student scholarship policy is also a direction towards encouraging students' interest in inclusion in certain vocational education programmes that are relevant in relation to labour market needs. Therefore, for the first time these legislative amendments introduce uniform criteria for the award of scholarships to students of vocational programmes, and this is for the acquisition of qualifications relevant in the labour market, respecting the needs of the economy and the labour market at national, regional and local level. The definition of scholarships through the legislative framework aims to encourage different authorities of the state administration and units of local and regional self-government, or regional self-government, as well as employers to actively participate in decision-making on the criteria for the allocation of incentives. It is important to stress that scholarships are foreseen to be provided from the state budget and the budget of school founders from EU funds from employers as well as from other sources. The next key change in the current legal framework concerns improving the quality assurance system in vocational education and improving the conditions for further development of regional competence centres. To this end, these amendments and additions to the law improve the implementation of the process of self-evaluation of vocational schools that become more efficient and give greater importance to teamwork within schools. The evaluation of vocational schools in addition to the external evaluation process is a national system for ensuring the quality of vocational education and is also linked to the European quality assurance system in vocational education. Let us also mention that the conditions for further development of regional competence centres appointed in 2018 with a total investment of 1.9 billion kuna are improved. This means that the stronger involvement of the economic sector in the development of skilled labour skills is envisaged to include and private initiatives in the development of RCKs as one of the acceptable partners, which was not possible in the context of the existing legal solutions. In other words, the Regional Centre of Competence will be able to provide through a public private partnership the means to secure working machinery, equipment and other conditions for implementing work-based learning, and the funds can be provided from the centre's own resources, the founders' funds, employers and other sources. This will establish synergies between the economy and the education sector with the greatest importance for changes in the economy towards digital and green transition, and ensure long-term sustainability of the centres. Compared to the text of the draft law which passed the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, the final proposal for the law adopted observations concerning the clearer regulation of certain provisions and language updates of the text which do not affect its content. It is also further prescribed that part of the activities of vocational education are carried out by teaching, with the aim of connecting several different models of professional curricula for the same profession, which are now responsible for the Ministry of Science and Education and the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, to one resulting in the reduction of the number of professional programmes and the modernisation of professional curricula. Also in the final draft of the law, the definition of a national curricula for vocational education has been amended, thus harmonising the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools as a fundamental legal rule in the system of education and the Law on Professional Education. Provisions concerning mentors in the employer and his replacement have also been developed to explain how the employer can replace a temporary absence mentor with another person for 60 days consecutively, and provisions that prescribe obstacles to the appointment of a mentor to work with pupils and persons replacing the mentor with the employer have been completed. The Ministry of Science and Education also considered and analysed the other proposals and opinions of the day in the first reading. As regards the proposal that learning is based on the work of an account as an additional working experience for students, which would be an advantage in the labour market, we point out that the implementation of the dual education development project is under way and that recommendations will be made to the competent authorities after the completion of the project which will examine the possibility of recognising the time spent on learning based on work as a work experience. As regards the objection relating to the duties of the employer to enter into a contract with the student, i.e. the obligation to make regular payments to the student, I would point out that the existing Article 31 is The law on vocational education which has not been amended is prescribed that during the course of learning based on the work of the employer, the student shall have the right to an employer’s reward in accordance with the time spent. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the proposed legislative solution is necessary in order to introduce changes in the system of vocational education and to contribute to better compliance of the education system with the labour market and to ensure a sufficient number of skilled workforce. The changes proposed are indeed valuable, and the Ministry of Science and Education and the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults as well as the Ministry of Economy will provide all necessary support to vocational schools and employers in order to successfully implement legal provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113007	Thank you, too. The first replica of Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113008	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Secretary of State. One in a series, therefore, of the changes that bring these amendments and additions to the Law on Professional Education, also refers to improving the quality assurance system in vocational education. In particular, it concerns improving the implementation of the self-evaluation process of vocational schools. And I will remind you that self-valuation with the process of external evaluation is actually part of the national quality assurance system in vocational education and certainly what gives meaning among other things, to support teamwork at school. However, I think it is necessary to distinguish precisely the concepts of the school's evaluation team and the Quality Committee and one of the remarks and the proposal, so during the public consultation it was that these two were kind of sublime and identified, so I'm going to ask you once again to explain the difference between the school team and itself, for self-valuation and the Quality Committee and to explain why This doesn't need to be identified. [[Thank you, thank you. Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113009	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113010	Thank you very much. Thank you, dear MPs, you have seen this well and it is true that the schools have already had the Commission of Quality which has been ineffective, which has not been included in the school's directorship, which in itself is illogical and the schools have just initiated to classify this change or, as far as the evaluation itself is concerned by this form of 2 committees, that is, one of the quality committees at which the school principal is headed, and the other is the school team that you mentioned, so the operational body of 3 members who then deals with quality and which then contributes to that relationship, or that this process of evaluation itself is effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113011	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113012	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, one of the most important amendments to the law is to seek stronger motivation of employers to receive students to work, to learn based on work by changing the role of mentor in the employer's way of moving in favour of the employer, and in the final benefit of both students and the entire labour market. Since there has been a lot of debate after the first reading, a lot of controversy and criticism and perhaps ambiguity, perhaps just once again to explain what concrete measures these are and what improvements are related to this second reading compared to the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113013	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113014	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In fact, the whole narrative of this Law is going towards strengthening the role of employers, i.e. the convergence of schools and employers, because there is, there have been large differences in practice so far. So the mentors now exist active participants, no longer have those 225 hours and a year of torture to obtain that status at all, now it is done in one program of 40 hours that is much more acceptable, one month to two, they can complete it and regulate and replace it if, which will be immediately quick and operational if it is necessary to change that mentor to the employer. They are referred to schools because the school mentor and mentor in the employer must work together. For example, when making a final lesson for students when finishing school, so a whole series of changes exactly go in this direction with the idea of mentors in the employer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113015	Thank you. Mr. Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113016	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. Well, it kind of gets the impression that the mentor's obligation to an employer as a teacher in a high school institution is actually, and now that we're in practice, when we're looking at someone who's been working as a craftsman for 20, 30 years, but he's either a mentor or someone at his job with that kind of experience, maybe those criteria should have been a little better aligned, so I'm interested in your opinion that those who have so much experience, that's going to accept it instead of exams because someone's going to have a very little experience and I don't know how much they're going to pass those 40 hours, that's progress relative to 250, but there's still some kind of, come on, let's put it this way, harassing the mentor, so to say, who has to lose time for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113017	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113018	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Okay, in the methodology we may be able to discuss, however, it was made absolutely based on what the Ministry of Economy required. The programme takes place in institutions that are the most represented in professions on which needs are observed in a particular area and are located in chambers, so either at the Chamber of Commerce or at the Chamber of Commerce, and I think that in that sense there must be some procedure and that it is not an excessive abuse of those who wish to become mentors with the employer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113019	Mr. Krusha.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113020	In this final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on vocational education, we are talking about investing in education, science and research in the field of interventions in professional education and adult education, interventions aimed at further harmonising the education system with labour market needs and providing support to students by setting up a scholarship system for deficits, in particular for students of vocational education systems in less developed environments and regions of the Republic of Croatia. I appeal that we need more vocational schools, we need to strengthen the qualification of the Croatian workforce because we will not be able to fight with cheap import equal power and lower qualifications. So I'm curious about what the prediction is, what is our time period to be able to implement all the specifics of this bill?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113021	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113022	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, the period of time is also related to the strategic documents for which we are also harmonising certain segments of this Law, and it is true that when we talk about vocational education, it is inevitably related to the concept of lifelong learning and is related to that law that we have already passed in this House, if you remember, unanimously, so the Law on adult education. So these are related concepts. What should be pointed out is that in Croatia we do not have a problem with vocational education as a term because we have it represented and more than in Europe, we have a problem with three-year professions, with their attractiveness or unattractiveness, with the possibility that now, in the law of certain scholarships, we finally have the opportunity to use and consume scholarships where we perceive that certain qualifications, i.e. certain professions, should be stimulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113023	Mr. Pavlich.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113024	Dear Secretary of State, I think this is the first time in the Law on Professional Education is mentioned in the words of the scholarship as a scholarship, which is, of course, commendable, as well as the criteria in which to allocate, as well as the sources from where to provide the funding for this scholarship, whether at local level, at the state level, it is EU funds. However, once again, it may all remain a dead letter on paper because they... Scholarships of the Ministry of Economy, 8 700 of them were abolished and amounted to 1200 kuna per month, respectively, 18000 kuna per year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the students of vocational education who are well-intentioned and enrolled because of this financial stimuli, certain professions have been cut off and there is no indication whether these scholarships will come back at all and I think that sends an extremely bad picture. How do you want to consent students especially in today's modern, modern period of time to deal with craftsmanship if you do not give extra financial stimuli and the ministry is giving the most and it has been abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113025	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113026	Thank you very much. You're right, Your Honor. That's exactly what happened because there was no legal foothold in terms of using scholarships, because if they don't comply with the law, then they can't even be budgeted. And here with these JMO programs, it was precisely that something was consummated, and there was no legal basis to enter with the possibility of a scholarship on other grounds. That is exactly what we are correcting by this law and such situations will no longer happen, and I believe that intersectoral agreement will be reached that it is precisely targeting those interests that we need most.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113027	Mrs. Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113028	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State Paljak. I certainly welcome the adoption of this law, since it is a legislative framework for implementing the reform of vocational education, which is certainly commendable. First of all, this refers to strengthening learning based on work, but also to operationalising integration on the one hand, the need for the labour market, and on the other hand the very vocational education, skills and competences that these young people acquire. What I especially commend is the system of scholarships for students of vocational schools. It is also a unique model and criteria for granting these scholarships, which I see can also be paid out of EU funds and state budgets and local budgets, etc. So I'm actually asking you because of all the parents who are watching this transfer how do you realize that their child who attends or will attend a vocational school gets and achieves this right to scholarship?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113029	Thank you, time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113030	Thank you very much, Your Honor. That's a good question. Therefore, after the adoption of this law, the inter-resor bodies shall determine the conditions, criteria, so as to determine where the scholarship is necessary, they shall be agreed on in what quantities, or to which extent they will scholarship both the students and where. Of course, this does not limit the units of local and regional, regional self-government to also engage in the whole process and to offer what they think is necessary for our labour market and which could possibly affect the target group, i.e. students who, thanks to these scholarships, would want to continue their or engage in vocational education. There will be a lot of work in that sense, but now we finally have the tools to consume scholarships on all grounds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113031	Mrs. Nemett.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113032	Dear Secretary of State, my question is specifically how do you intend to motivate future high school students to enroll professional deficits? You've introduced Article 36a into the law. You're talking about incentives, but of course we've been witnessing that the scholarship's been gone for a while. We even have testimony that the deficit scholarships were paid for the first year, for the second year, for the third year, they weren't. So trust's been rocked. How do you think you're going to invite young people to write professional deficits? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113033	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113034	Mr. Secretary of State says I have to give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113035	Excuse me, Mr. Vice President. Yes, thank you very much. I answered part of it. How? But that's a wider social problem. We all have to get involved in the campaign. We have seen that the Worldskills competition was very well visited, that in the professional professions and techniques that the students of these schools possess, and watch them found certain results and should continue to do so. We will, of course, increase our national campaign from the level of our portfolio, and now we will aim precisely where the weakest interests are, that is, interest in these interests and there is a great need in the labour market. But I'm saying it's not just one or the other ministry's problem here that needs to achieve one broader social consensus in order for that campaign to succeed. For example, with us, the question of chefs is that we think there are too few, and 1,000 chefs come out of our education system annually. So the question is where they end up and why don't they end up where our market would require it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113036	Thank you. Mr. Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113037	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, I think it is commendable for every school year to seek recommendations from the Croatian Employment Service as a guideline to the state of the labour market. However, I may not be right about the rapid cycle of changes in the labour market. Could it happen that when forming, the vocational schools of class departments are created one antagonism because, for example, it is current in the first grade of high school does not have to in the third and fourth grade. It means whether schools will be able to form their classrooms to monitor this rapid pace of change on the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113038	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113039	Thank you very much. Dear Representatives, of course, will be able to do so, and only now will this process be much more dynamic given that such decisions will be made for each year individually, so the needs will be determined here and there in determining these needs must be involved, therefore the Chambers Economic and craftsmen and, most importantly, the Croatian Employment Service which makes its recommendation and its opinion in order to avoid this practice so far that the founders for some reasons or already established practices predict 20 and 35% more registration quotas than they really have needs, so that when we make those decisions, we will also have better indicators and more relevant based on these structures that I have talked about as an award or not assign certain different departments to certain interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113040	Thank you. Mrs. Simunic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113041	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I see the problem of this bill as I see a multitude of obligations and conditions for the employer that there is a possibility that a certain number of them will give up the contract for reasons that do not account for the burdens of entrepreneurs and their current motivation to receive students who are not satisfactory anyway. Practice has also been reduced to work by small craftsmen who were difficult to motivate to take such a commitment primarily because of the administration they had to pass. This bill tightens the conditions and forgets that one of the problems and in the training programme was the lack of craftsmen who were willing to enter the licensing process. Today, few employers want to take responsibility for teaching students without obtaining any encouragement or relief from the state. I wonder how many licensed employers are insured in the first place and I continue to think that this problem of stimulation can be solved through support from craftsmen and employers and that he had to be disposed of [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] through these legal changes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Why isn't that so? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113042	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113043	Thank you well-respected MPs, not everything we've done on this law in, therefore, the commission that made it in all these processes was included employers. So some, some points and articles are precisely at the request of the Croatian Employers' Association, which also followed the interests of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and Economy whose representatives were also active participants in the drafting of this law. So he was made as assessed on their part to make it the most powerful motivational bond for employers to receive students on learning based on work. And of course, practice is the way that when that law comes to life it will show whether we guessed or didn't, but we didn't, we didn't do it by heart, but we listened and listened to what they were looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113044	Thank you. Mrs. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113045	Here, dear secretary, I will read to you later in the debate a letter from a professional school teacher in Slavonia who is actually disappointed with this whole law but here before we hear it I wanted to ask you again about this proposal so that this work experience is whether to enter, after finishing school so enter as actually practice registers as a working experience to the students. Of course, that practice that's not sharing coffee, and I don't know what they're not giving these kids through companies, but really work comes in as a work experience. You said a dual education project was under way and then some recommendations would come up to the authorities. Can you explain that a little bit because actually when we bring it all down to a level of recommendation, that's what you know what it looks like often and not, it doesn't respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113046	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113047	Thank you, well-respected MPs, of course through the debates, through the parliamentary committees you have testified that we have not rejected this proposal or are awaiting the evaluation of the project that was experimentally carried out with, in cooperation with the Swiss Ministry and their chambers in terms of dual education. There are some interesting things that we have already implemented as results in the text of this law, but in order for students to learn from their work, there should be a broader social consensus, or all the stakeholders of the process should be agreed, so sectoral, and if that happens there will be no reason not to apply it, because it is certainly an interesting proposal in the sense that even so these students are more competitive or more motivated to enter these interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113048	Thank you. Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113049	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, I am pleased that today we have the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Education and thus continue to reform and after tax reform, reform of the judiciary and public administration are now on the reform of vocational education. We heard from your opening presentation, as well as from the replicas of fellow MPs and MPs that a lot of new ones are introduced primarily in terms of learning at work, monitoring with the employer, for quality and stronger integration of schools and employers, for more concrete and clear categories and criteria of granting scholarships. Therefore, in view of these particulars that we have pointed out, but also a lot of things that may not be highlighted in the debate, where, as well as in any way by any interested parents, students, employers can come up with that information and therefore see all these newspapers that the law adopts. So is there any Internet place and how can you find out everything they're interested in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113050	Thank you very much, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113051	Thank you very much. Yes, it will, of course, be available as usual on all of the natural web pages not only of our ministry but also of all those to which this law applies. Of course, to potentiate learning is based on work, or way of regulation and professional supervision, when it happens to the employer, which is very important. It is very important to us, but all stakeholders, ministry, schools, chambers and, of course, employers are involved in this process. The opinion in the event of any outbursts will be respected, of course. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113052	Thank you very much, thank you. Mrs. Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113053	Thank you very much, Vice President. Secretary of State, this is the result by, the employer's analysis shows that a third, only a third of employers, are satisfied with the level of competence of young people, and then you said that in this, the law also mentions centres of competence, regional centres of competence. And we see that the provisions cover the possibility of providing through a public private partnership the means to provide work machinery, equipment, other manufacturing conditions, to conduct work-based learning, so I would ask you to do something a little bit wider to explain This private partnership. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113054	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113055	Thank you very much, Your Honor. is, regional competence centres must be active partners throughout this process in order for them to be sustainable, and all that will be invested in regional competence centres is huge resources. At this point, however, it is European funds, but we assume that in the future, the renewal and very expensive sophisticated parts will require the involvement of a public or private partner and in the capacity of a public and private partnership to make the process self-sustainable. We have very good examples of the implementation of the public private partnership not only in the equipment but also in the construction and infrastructure of Croatia, for example, in our Varazdin County it is most obvious, but this is a model that through the law opens up the possibility of this happening everywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113056	Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113057	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. In your introductory explanation of the law itself, you mentioned that Croatia has an average number of students in vocational education, but you also mentioned that many of these programmes are just out of date, they should normally adapt to the market itself by congratulating you for going into this reform, especially with regard to this part where we will connect the needs of the market with all stakeholders and adapt it to our education system. But here's what I'm curious about, since you've probably been working on the law working with all of them, we know that this reform will need to include cities and counties that are the founders themselves, HZZ and the government as strategists who will prescribe what we need because you think we're gonna get there for the new school year, do we know that certain schools or certain stakeholders can be a little bit slower, and here we need to be ad hoc and solve the situation?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113058	Time. Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113059	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, the problems will be, there have been so far, but we believe that there will be fewer because, and now that we do not have this law in place, we have talked directly to all the founders who have come forward after we have made our proposal for these registration quotas in these professional occupations in order to optimise as much of this system as possible and, of course, upholding everyone's right to express their views and their reasons for that. I think this law will allow this process to go much easier, and that we need to speak directly from the institutional level and cooperate with all founders, and it is unquestionable and it will certainly happen. And, of course, for the next school year, it's going to be very visible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113060	Vice President Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113061	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Showing this as a spectacular reform after already the Education, Science and Technology Strategy in 2014 said that this must be done immediately is a bit of an insult to the intelligence and honor of each of us MPs. Secondly, to announce as a newspaper the obligation that schools will have to plan records together with the founders from now on in accordance with the needs or recommendations of the HZZ is the same empty story. We are now already in the existing Law on Education and Education in Art. 20th century 2nd and Article 2nd. 22. We have a very clearly defined law on vocational education that founders together with schools in line with the needs of the economy, which would include monitoring the development strategies of individual counties or founders and monitoring of HZZ recommendations that exist for years should be planned in such a way. But now you're announcing it as a newspaper, but if it's a newspaper, tell me since you haven't prescribed anything at all. how you sanction those who do not and how to ensure the implementation of this as you announce [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Newspaper, what exactly is new in this law? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113062	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113063	Thank you very much. I don't know if I acted spectacularly or didn't intend to show this law spectacularly. The fact is that it has not been touched for more than 10 years and that it does not apply only to 2014, and if something does not stand in the words of the law, then there is no possibility of those who should follow it. We can't implement sanctioning obligations, so they're intersectoralally related to some other resistors, and it's simply not the narrative of this law, but that it will enable us when we get the HZZ's opinion whether we need some interests in some space or not, and that it will make it easier for us to make decisions about, for example, the formation of class departments, they will.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113064	Thank you. Mr. Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113065	Your Honor... Yeah, good. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] My dear secretary. This law should also allow for key changes in the system of vocational education, in particular a solution that will regulate the strengthening of work-based learning and raising quality in terms of stronger integration of schools and employers. This will result in better coordination of the education system with the labour market and in ensuring labour and their faster adaptation and performance in the workplace. Since enrollment in vocational schools would be controlled if needed, will many find themselves or think that freedom of choice is limited to the right of free choice, or will intervention be the same as it used to be?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113066	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113067	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The intervention will always be and must be, there have been many already this year, regardless of all wishes, needs, real, unrealistic many we have respected as you have had opportunities to read in the media, but some we are not 49, so it is about registration quotas. Now when it's going to show up after the students write down whether it was real or not, and we already know according to some indicators where it might happen then there will be those unpopular measures, and then it's the abolition of some different departments because there are no interests, etc. So these are all the processes that I think we're going to reduce in this area precisely thanks to this law because we're going to say here ok you're proposing this, but the reality in your area is that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113068	Thank you. Mrs. Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113069	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. On the subject of the amendments in question, I welcome the changes relating to strengthening work-based learning, which means stronger integration of schools and employers. In this way they would get more personnel ready for the challenges they face in the labour market. However, I will refer to the decision to enroll students in the first grade of high school for 2022 and '23. The school year in Ličko-Senj County, since next year students have been deprived of enrolment in professional professions towards the tourist hotel commercialist in Gospić and business secretary in Otoc. So two educational directions have been abolished, and no new ones have been offered or introduced as an alternative. It is a mountain-mounted area, an area of special state care, rarely populated and such decisions further deepen the negative demographic trends faced in Lica. Does the ministry have a plan, an idea, a way to help these areas, which are further punished by reducing grade departments and opportunities because of a small number of students? enrolment according to student selection? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113070	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113071	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Unfortunately, they are not punished by these criteria but punished by objective indicators that are as they are unfortunately in those demographically depressed areas. There is this possibility, namely optimization does not mean that the program is shut down. We didn't remove them anywhere just from county to county we tried to make a system that would be more optimal. Somewhere we did it to a greater extent, somewhere we did it to a lesser extent. But the fact is that we don't stop, we don't shut down programs, we don't eliminate those interests that are less of interest than we try to bring them together wherever possible, it probably happened here, too. It's not the intensity of abolishing, or reducing, but somewhere it just happens by natural process.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113072	Thank you. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113073	The Honorable Secretary of the Law says that you will motivate students in a way that you will give them scholarships to enrollment in professional professions which is commendable. How will you motivate entrepreneurs to receive these students into practice? It's just that these entrepreneurs are already cut off because they don't have the workforce because of it and you give students scholarships, they have to send a mentor to training for 40 hours, pay him the costs for that training, so after that, how not, travel costs who pays, they pay, so the diaries pay, you pay them only the course, so they pay the costs. After that, you need a part of the mentor, a part of the mentor's working time, actually to train students, which is commendable, but you need to pay them again. At the end of the year when the ministry announces a tender, they may receive one part of the fee. There's a problem, how to motivate them. The second question, are you aware that the regional centres of competence don't work, and you only have 14 months until, to spend the money... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113074	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113075	Thank you very much. Your Honor, as far as employers' motivation is concerned, I've already said this was done because they wanted to and because they wanted to be motivated in this way. The process of mentoring the employer is simplified maximum. The cost of the program isn't on the employer. It's on the agency. The law also provides for the constant professional training of these mentors in employers, which will again be carried out by the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education. So that's where the shifts were made right on their proposal and on their thinking. And as far as regional competence centres are concerned, it is true that consumption is at this point on slightly smaller percentages, but this is a particular topic that will require a special debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113076	Thank you. Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113077	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I welcome the adoption of this law. The law is not spectacular, but it is necessary in view of the state of professional education. We are one of the few European countries that actually enrolls more students in vocational education than is prescribed. So somewhere, about 70%. And now we're going to... So we have schools, we have teaching tools and aids, we have students, and do we have necessary staff, professional staff who will work with these children because we invest a lot of money in material resources, but we don't really invest enough in people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think that is one of the biggest problems that we will solve relations in vocational education, as well as in education in Croatia. And what I want to stress is that people are the ones who make up the system, not the conditions that are being made possible. We have conditions, we don't have people. And as far as admission policy is concerned, it's not good for the end to be The last year we... [[Thank you very much, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113078	Thank you, Mr. Simičević. You'll have a chance yet. [[/Intruder: Ah, ok.]] Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113079	Thank you very much. Yes, Your Honor, you're absolutely right when we equip, and we're working on modernizing and equipping schools, then of course there's always a question of who's going to work with these students or who's going to motivate them. Of course, if we want these reform processes to succeed, we're going to have to motivate more strongly these people who work in school and in their material incomes, in their material rights, and of course we're taking care of it and we're prepared to do that anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113080	Thank you and no more replicas, thank you for now. Is there anyone on the board who wants to report it? There isn't. I am opening the debate, the first Mrs. Marija Selak Rasdić is on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113081	Today we are not just talking about a law relating to vocational education, we are also talking in general about the reform of vocational education that has at least been on paper for years. We are also talking about the reform of the entire education system that has previously been subject to, for example, the Law on adult education also referred to what we are talking about today, and as regards vocational education where powers have been given to the Agency for the Education of Adults, which should not actually have the authority in certain cases where an examination and supervision of what should be part of adult education has been carried out. The reform of the vocational education that we have looked back on here is an extremely important process, and it is especially important in Croatia because in professional education in Croatia, as 70% of students are known, and we are the fourth in Europe, so unlike many countries, we are advocating in vocational education even though we were often even here in the assembly to hear that vocational education is deficiting. We produce a lot of professional staff, but the key question is how we produce it, how we plan to educate this fit in the future of the proposed reform of vocational education, and perhaps more importantly, for whom we produce it. And my fundamental thesis that I will explain further in the exhibition is that we certainly do not produce it for the Republic of Croatia in terms of educational staff that involves active and conscious citizens who are able to participate not only in our work tasks but also in all other social processes with an emphasis on those democratic ones, because we already know that we have a serious democratic deficit in Croatia. The reform of vocational education is an extremely important process in which all important actors of the process from the Ministry of Science and Education, the Education and Education Agency and the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults should be in synergy, however, this reform is exclusively in the hands of the Agency for Professional Education and Education. The development strategy of the vocational education system and the Croatian classification framework are the basic documents under which reforms are carried out and are chosen here, and the agency has chosen members of the working group according to the given entry 60 over 40% in favour of the professional content. In the meantime, the Ministry of Science and Education is surrounding the number of students in classrooms in vocational schools by abolishing classrooms in so-called "Students". Sufficient occupations. Many schools have not even been given the opportunity to refresh their own programs, and this is the problem we are facing today, currently in vocational education there is complete chaos. No one knows why something is lifted, whether something will eventually be abolished, which objects will remain, which will go on and on what criteria it is implemented, and all the authorities who do so wash their hands and do not give concrete answers. We have already started a reform independently of this legislative framework, and no one knows how it will end and everything that is raised as a question in the processes of this reform is treated literally as a state secret rather than concrete answers. We will all agree that the changes are necessary, certainly revitalising the educational content that has been suffering for years, unlike those of high school, but a vague relationship may be a key relationship for us that we should consider here as elected citizens' representatives towards general educational content and their fate is unclear. History, geography, biology, psychology, physics, philosophy, logic, not to mention, and then we'll all be in public when someone doesn't know where he started and ended up II. World war or Homeland War and who was on the wrong side and who was on the right side of history. At the same time, we will be so hypocritical that we will eliminate the possibility of students attending vocational schools that they are even educated in a broader social historical context, and then demand and invoke them because they do not know some basic historical facts. Not to mention, by abolishing such subjects or by assembling them, which is the ultimate goal of abolishing them, we are putting ourselves in a position to lose the fundamental advantage of vocational education for those who will continue their education in the direction of higher education, and these are socially depressed students. So, those students who will have to work with the university, if they have previously received vocational education, enable them to get a job and work while they are studying and that is their comparative advantage over "ordinary students" and that is, of course, those who come from harder social opportunities. However, by abolishing these cases they cannot compete at all for university records and thus not only to lose their comparative advantage but to prevent them from taking steps further in their development because, as you know, what you are starting with, and that recognizes the reform of vocational education is not necessarily your thought of how your education should end with a full age of 18 because especially young people develop and it is good that it is, but it is important that we, through the system and through the law, leave the door open to them. Such a reform of the vocational education carried out within this legal framework is not left open. How many students today who attend high-school med school? And aren't they supposed to be the first ones on the list because they've been specialized before? Well, that may give us a clear and plastic answer to how well and long-term we are considering our vocational education. Whether to change the content of generalised subjects other than the changes already made for the items required at the State Graduation or for some items, old curricula and programmes have remained from the 1990s because they are intended to be abolished. The members of the working groups for the preparation of general education guidelines were selected in March 2022 nine of them and their role is advisory while the working groups for professional content work longer than today. Of course, the argument that the ministry will brand this reform will be that it is in the interest of students to be more employable and more practical and easier to adapt to the labour market. And speaking of adapting to the labour market, I'll remind you that the Employment Service gives qualitative, not quantitative recommendations, so what's missing, and what's too much. And who will be the one to direct it to a concrete quantitative recommendation which is what we are ultimately interested in and based on what criteria. And how long-term since the market changes every year, and we're going to be here on the basis of these changes that won't apply for four years to enroll students in school and determine quotas. So we need someone who can literally predict the future. If we only take the labour market as what is relevant for quota signing. And while at the same time, let's say, we're removing the necessity to show how much paradox and misunderstanding within the system of these general education subjects, we're not reducing their quotas, the number of required professors at the competent colleges. Does one not necessarily affect the other? Either we have no reform, but here we have to spend the few billion we will get from the EU funds for vocational education, so it will be shared without clear criteria by hand and hat, we know how it had previously ended with Minister Divjak because we ended up getting jobs from their own budget. We'll see what happens to vocational education. What is crucial is to answer the question of what will happen with the universal content, although it is claimed that there will be no significant deviations, experience with dual programs still teaches us that there will be the possibility of cutting the Captain and that this will be subdued under sound reasons. If a cutting occurs, it is clear that he does not want to have as a result of education. The population of citizens who are capable of critical thinking, well-informed, well-educated people, but only obedient workers, I will repeat, that the matter is more tragic, probably not even for the Croatian market. People who are smart enough to manage machines and run paperwork and stupid enough to passively accept, moreover, half-dozen jobs, longer working hours, reduced incomes, overtime and retirement that disappears as soon as you go for it without mentioning participation in the democratic processes in the Republic of Croatia. With the reform of vocational education, we must be very careful because it is most of the high school students in the Republic of Croatia, and here they are seen narrowly, only as a means of work, instead of as full-fledged, or children who have their rights and fundamentally right, the right to education that we in HS need for them [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] to fight. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113082	Now the HSLS and reformers' club will perform as follows, first Mrs. Martincevic and then Mr. Klasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113083	... Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the distinguished secretary of state with a co-worker. [[Specially enabled.]] In the debate on the first reading of this Law, I have already pointed out that the needs of the labour market for qualified professional workers are great and that unfortunately they are in serious disproportionate to what our education system is producing today. It is clear to each and every one of us, therefore, on such a simple example of who at the moment would need a carpenter, a wallpaperer, a ceramician, a plumber, etc., because today, several months are waiting for these jobs to be done, and prices are of course, due to the lack of offers of these services on the market often unreal high. At the same time, there is also the dissatisfaction of the employer with the level of specific and applicable knowledge of students coming out of our education system and finally, as the third and possibly biggest problem, the complete disinterest of children to enroll these programs at all. It is therefore good that the intensity of the whole law is stronger to connect employers and vocational schools, or to refer to each other, which is to establish a quality and purpose of vocational education without which it is not possible. This, of course, should also motivate employers to receive students on learning based on work,... the law so far because it foresees certain serious shifts in favour of the employer, as I have already said, finally, on the benefit of the benefit of all students and labour markets as a whole. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This refers in particular to the integration of mentors and schools and mentors with employers who will cooperate together, exchange experience from education and the real sector, which will ultimately contribute to the quality of education itself and the satisfaction of the employer with the knowledge of students at the end of schooling. So finally, practice should become a concrete work on the jobs for which the student is educated, and not, as has been said here today, going to pick up bagels and cooking coffee, which has often been the case so far. In order to increase children's interest in enrolment in vocational schools, it is certainly of the utmost importance and scholarship of students, therefore the legal possibility that all relevant state and regional bodies, but also employers who have an interest in education and in increasing the number of labour force in their sectors, are involved in creating criteria and granting scholarships to students, and this is one really serious shift in the right direction. I believe that this is a very effective tool that has proved to be a successful model in many other EU Member States and therefore we support this legislative provision. Finally, I would refer, in my opinion, to a particularly important provision relating to regional competence centres, i.e. the possibility of providing through a public private partnership the means to secure working machinery, equipment and other conditions for the implementation of quality practice. What is the importance and strength of the establishment and functioning of the centres of excellence and what opportunities they actually give if they can be used as a serious tool in the education system, I will explain specifically to the example of the Varazdin County, the more the Secretary of State is present here, actively participated as Deputy Mayor in the implementation of all these programmes. So based on a public private partnership, Varazdin County is the only county in Croatia that has built and restored in one mandate 34 schools and sports halls and has allowed more than 90% of students to attend classes in one shift, today it is almost 100%, which for the rest of Croatia is an unattainable standard, namely, we are still at 36% of students attending classes in one shift. It is this one-way course with all the benefits it provides regarding the organisation of teaching, family life, transportation and everything else that enables the organization of centres of excellence. Today in Varazdin County we have 11 centres of excellence, including 846 students, of which 560 primary school students and 286 high school students, and with them works 168 mentors. Why am I saying that? Because such a policy of education also brings very concrete and measurable results in all areas of education from the level to the vocational education, so it is not by chance that the Professional High School in Varazdin is the best in Croatia and has increased the number of students enrolled by 50%. I quote this as an example of good practice by saying that it's not the point that we really just and always criticize everything here, so when something really is known, it can and will then you can get visible and clear and measurable results. This, these amendments and additions to the law, the People's Party of Reformists supports, but of course, since the ministry here has made a lot of demands to direct, assist and monitor whether those measures are implemented in practice, which, of course, will, as always and as everything else, be seen very quickly in concrete numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113084	Mr. Klasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113085	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Professional schools have a bad reputation because in Croatia only entrepreneurship has no positive omens because we do not value equal general and professional competences. In Croatia, it is often not understood that professional education is based on a successful economy. Almost everyone would like to be highly educated, and it is forgotten that good and professional workers who are an important pillar of our economy and the middle layer are increasingly disappearing. At the same time, a growing number of students are enrolled in Croatian secondary vocational schools, which further deepens and the problem of the lack of workers who deal with deficits, although on the labour market such occupations are well paid and they do not have to fear whether they will be able to live normally at least on Croatian occasions. However, it is not enough incentive for young people to enroll in vocational schools, and students are not even motivated by major state scholarships. In our society, unfortunately, office jobs have become a popular benchmark of success, and physical work is often culturally marked as a failure. The cause is often the environment, but all of us parents who have different expectations from our children, and with our education we often build up a certain dose of false elitism and attitude that young people who enroll in vocational schools are worth less than high school students. That's why young people usually choose less so-called. unpopular vocational schools because almost everyone wants to enroll in high school or at least a 4-year technical or artistic school. Young people often don't know what kind of interest they'd choose is whether they think they'd be successful only if they went to college. In addition to reforming the education system, it is the main paradigm that we need to change, especially us as a society, so that every ceramicist, waiter, mechanic or trader must be a person who is equally respected in society as a university professor because every job that is done fairly deserves social respect and recognition. On the other hand, it is also necessary to make it possible to continue schooling to the greatest extent possible for all young people who graduate from vocational and secondary schools so that they do not lose their attractiveness. On the other hand, there is also a reduction in the quality of youth education following the completion of vocational schools, mainly due to the lack of practical knowledge needed to carry out certain jobs. Students finish their schools and refer to the labour market, but they will likely not immediately pursue the professions they have been educated for. They got a degree, but they're mostly not able to do it on their own. There's a big difference between our student and a student who finishes school in the Western vocational education system. A cook who finishes schooling in Croatia has been educated at a level since nearly 30 years ago, while a student from Western Europe is already working on molecular cuisine after completing his education. This is not the same, and we are not competitive in this respect when we have a strong resistance to change, mainly because of the problem of lack of practical knowledge needed to carry out certain tasks. The need for intensive and quality cooperation between vocational schools and employers is shown to be involved in the education of students, and the need for cooperation and projects in which teachers would qualify for different and better quality teaching methods that are in line with the rapid technological and digital global changes. Only with joint engagements, changes in curricula and teaching methods, changes in enrolment policy and integration of schools with the economy can the necessary changes be achieved. If young people recognize that professional professions are valued and that they will gain the necessary knowledge that will become independent and esteemed members of society, we will also increase the attractiveness and interests of vocational schools, and thus start our economy. This law is an additional step towards modernising the system of vocational education in order to make it more attractive, more competent, more competitive and innovative, and to make the students more independent. As liberals, we consider education to be one of the fundamental means of independence and training, as well as the real autonomy of individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113086	Thank you. Now it's the IDS Representatives' Club and Mr Emil Daus's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113087	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In order to start with the assessment of the situation and the basic issues to be regulated by law, and the consequences that the law will result in, under measure 2.2. Investment in education, science and research in the field of professional education and adult education, interventions aimed at further harmonising the education system with the needs of the labour market and providing support to participants by setting up a scholarship system for deficiting interests, in particular for students of vocational education systems in less developed environments and regions of the Republic of Croatia. And I'm asking what's in the pause, which is with the support of students in developed environments and regions of the Republic of Croatia, what kind of message is being sent again to young students, future masters, that it doesn't matter how good you are but where you come from and when discrimination will be done between the citizens of the Republic of Croatia by territoriality because this is not positive discrimination. That instead of the less developed regions and the environment of the legislators, that the emphasis should be on the students of the weaker property situation, we will surely all agree to this, but not this. Because then what's the message? That there is no need to pursue development and progress. That the student in the towns of Primorje, Istria, Zagreb is worth less than the one in the less developed areas. Let's not share children, it's not done, and in the first reading we warned about it. There are towns and municipalities in the area of the Republic of Croatia which belong to the 8th group of local self-government units and which are located in the first quarter above the average-ranked local self-government units and they have schools with deficiting occupations there. And according to all of this, the only thing that can be understood from this is that students from these areas who are educated in deficits will not be able to use the said support and this is not the first time that developed regions of Croatia are discriminated against and demoted through competitions. We have many examples of local self-government that could not compete, with neither kindergarten nor with municipal infrastructure, etc. But when it's done over the kids, then it's really below each level. And it's not just about the end I come from, so it's not always about us IDSs fighting for Istria alone, no, it's about other counties and cities and municipalities in Croatia, so I'm asking my colleagues from the ruling majority of other clubs to respond to it and to vote for it, and as far as mentoring itself is concerned, as well as the duties of employers proposed in Article. 26a and 27th century 1 are very important to say this, professions in professional programs require practical training in licensed crafts, making it difficult for students and schools to find the same and to get a license, teaching providers must provide students with the conditions to acquire competences in the real working environment, including mentors with appropriate qualifications and pedagogical competences, and this is in theory great. But today, few employers want to take responsibility for teaching students and not engage in such adventures without getting any stimulation or relief from the state. It's been a long time since we've had large companies, businesses, large production halls with masters in them. This law and the conditions set out without ensuring sufficient number of licensed crafts, some occupations will disappear, you know? And here we are in Istria, like automechatronics, ship mechanics, and art. 26a mentions, the obligation of mentors to the employer is practically as obligations of teachers in a high school institution. We're doing a little bit more of a theory than just practice in nature, aren't we? And imagine an employer with 3 employees in some years but who, apart from standard business management, must fulfill all the prescribed and proper pedagogical documentation, records, etc., and for all of this must have a passed exam to prove the basic knowledge. And I'm gonna do it one more time, and we want master craftsmen or a bunch of red tape? If a master craftsman for 20, 30 years or their employees in that craft or companies are working in their profession, what test of knowledge must they take? Maybe even those who teach them could explain something, and who doesn't know, he'd be on the market a long time ago, what are we talking about? So the students have problems finding quality professional employers where they can learn the trade, and now even by theorizing, by bureaucratizing even more, it makes them impossible. Yeah, we know it's better than it was before at 250 or what time at 40, but life is something else, to say one, one there in Pazin at my place, quite another. I know that, I know, I guess the intentions were really good and positive, but the terrain is something else. I think, and I think that there should have been some different criteria in some things that the employer could take students to practical classes without having to pass the exam on condition and only such, that there are certain years of work and experience behind him and I pray once again, before this vote to think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113088	Thank you. Mr. Damir Bakic in front of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113089	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. I'll repeat at the beginning what I pointed out in my first reading. We welcome the intensification that this Law better regulates, above all, the practical part of teaching in vocational schools and improves the role and position of mentors and employers where students conduct practical teaching. This Final Bill proposal does not differ significantly from the initial and therefore our observations will be essentially the same. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid It is now reduced from 7 to 5 members, and this is replaced by the fact that the director will now further appoint a self-valuation team composed of three members from the ranks of teachers and professional associates. Self-evaluation teams have existed in schools for a long time, however, they are inactive and often just figure out and fulfill form, so it is necessary to strengthen their role and seek and obtain content. First of all, we think, I'll repeat it again, it should be a commission, not a team. It's a big and responsible job for both these people and that task that needs to be credited. The work in this committee should be recognised either in the teacher norm or in some other way rewarded or stimulated. Also, we have proposed and we are still proposing that two members of the Self-Evaluation Committee be members of the Quality Committee in order to better harmonise the work of these two bodies. Unfortunately, it wasn't accepted. When we talk about rewarding or some other form of giving recognition of the work of members of the Committee for Evaluation, it is unclear why it is not accepted because it is said, here, I will quote, the activities of the school's self-evaluation team are recognised as those that require resources at school level in terms of knowledge that needs to be available as well as the times needed for the operational implementation of the activities. That's not an argument, that's not even an "A" argument. It's a estranged bureaucratic avoidance of argument. Article 13 is intervened in Article 26 of the basic law describing which employers can conduct practical teaching. The employer is now, so to speak, getting an important role and becoming a partner. It is absolutely essential to raise the quality of the employer's educational and professional capacity, so it is important to educate them, monitor their work, design some system of relief for participation in the educational process as well as rewarding those most successful. Equally, it is necessary to design, or improve, the system of awarding mentors. The practical work of students in vocational education, of course, is all agreed upon and is quite easy to agree on. Unfortunately, it is a rare practice, almost a rule that it only performs the satisfaction of form works quite routinely without real engagement and content. It is essential that I return here again now to the role of the Self-Evaluation Committee and the Quality Committee, which will follow practical work and results with mara and interest. And I'm going to do this again on that trail because it's said in the first reading. The employer may only be in charge of those tasks which ensure the acquisition of competence in accordance with the curricula and the contract to implement practical teaching. I think it's particularly important that this provision is strictly respected. Otherwise, in paragraph 1 of that article, where a new indent is added, I will quote again: “The employer is obliged to participate in the construction and defence of the final work.” In fact, it is unclear what this provision requires. How will the employer participate in the work of completion, exactly what obligation do we prescribe? After all, who's the mentor? None of that says it? It does not say how this obligation is checked, and I will mention what I said last time this is an uglyly said mentor being a person and writing in the law that something will be carried out or done through a person is certainly not the best Croatian language, but the rest is unchanged. And speaking of which, it's not just that. The explanation on page 17 literally mentions the conduct of paperwork. I mean, nobody in their right mind thinks that legal texts necessarily have to be written in some dry and gray language, but that doesn't mean again that in the legal texts that they are fit with these legal texts of the file from an optional contract. In the end, another thing more important than the law itself. It explains the proposed law for the first time introduces a legal obligation for the schools of founders and the ministry, planning the enrolment of students in professional programmes in line with the recommendations of the Croatian Employment Institute. This is also recorded in Article 9. Of course, it's okay to listen to HZZ recommendations and listen to market needs. That's not enough, though. A vision is needed and schools need to be left free to recognise the needs of time and to be faster than the HZZ, because the ultimate requirement that is put before education today is not that the system looks backwards or tries to keep up with time rather than to train for the adoption of fundamentally new knowledge and tools. This, however, takes much more than an amendment to this or any other educational law. It takes education to truly understand not only as a social task, but also as a social value and it does not go with mere certifications. This eventually, and now, in the end, brings us to an even more important issue, even more fundamental. I'd say the most important thing. Clearly, economic development is important, clearly it is necessary to monitor scientific and technological development but in the care of professional perspectives, we are increasingly forgetting the broader role of education and student education, and whether schools are professional or general, this should be our first concern. Ensuring conditions for the full construction of a person, for the construction of employed, directed, solidarity, creative and active citizens. It should be, but it doesn't look like it. Because this shameful event that took place in Slavonski Brod the other day is primarily the guilt of the system, the ministry in the first place. It just can't happen. The system must find ways to encourage people such as teachers in Slavonski Brod, who direct their students against basic civilization values and in this orientation encourages them, all under cover of false patriotism to prevent such persons from working with students. Such persons cannot be in place in the educational process and regardless of being founders of schools and units of local and regional self-government, the ministry must take responsibility. If appropriate legal changes are to be proposed to obtain appropriate powers, but certainly ensure an educational process in accordance with constitutional and civilizational norms. The tolerance rate for deviations in this sense cannot be but zero. And teachers, individuals who dare in our schools show or approve sympathy for any elements or features of Nazism, fascism and Ustasha regime of the doors of our schools should be immediately and unconditionally closed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113090	You, too. Ms. Irena Simunic Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113091	Thank you, dear Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. In front of us is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Education submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by Act of 12 May 2022. It is certainly good to discuss this law in fact necessary. It is good to coordinate with HKO, in fact the HOK we often forget in this hall should become the cornerstone of modern education because the labour market is changing too quickly. Some of the conventional methods of jumping to market requirements so far are no longer possible, but longer is not possible and much will have to be defined through informal education of informally acquired knowledge and skills. With a timely response to the problems arising from vocational education, they would not have found themselves in the present situation that is bad, but had long been expected to respond to the existing situation. The reason is that, according to the proposal, the adoption of the proposed law will allow for key changes in the system of vocational education, in particular solutions that regulate the strengthening of work-based learning and the raising of quality in terms of stronger integration of schools and employers. The implementation of the legislative proposal should also contribute to the better coherence of the education system with the labour market and to ensuring that there is sufficient skilled labour force and their faster adaptation and performance in the workplace, which we all welcome. But the question now raises whether these changes will solve the main problem at all, too much of the gap between the offer of qualified workers and their demand on the labour market? Although Croatia has one of the highest levels of participation in vocational education in the EU, 62.2% while the EU average is 48.4% of vocational education is rarely considered a second-rate choice, which is very wrong. But that is because many professional programs, especially those three - year - olds, are of low attractiveness to students. As a result of the staff requirements and the requirements for a certain standard of equipment, professional programmes are expensive, and institutions need significant support both in adapting and in changing the programme's offer. So we are currently suffering the consequences of inaction for years. So far, too much time has been lost for concrete moves. Questions are raised as to what has really been done regarding the motivation of students to enroll in craft professions since the fact that for the past ten years we have had a drastically smaller number of enrolled children and students in professional professions than the labour market requires. It is evident that the professional orientation carried out by HZZ is not good and sufficient. More intensively, professional professions or certain professional programmes should be popularised especially deficiting among primary school students in order to explain to them and their parents that investment in such a type of education is profitable because they will be sought on the labour market and will provide the young person with life, financial security, but also personal satisfaction because of their contribution to society. One of the main problems is the lack of practical knowledge among students leaving vocational schools to do certain work. The results of the analysis and... employers show that only a third of employers are satisfied with the level of competence of young people. Again, the question arises, will the proposed changes be resolved and the increasingly pronounced problem? Time will tell. What has proved necessary is that these amendments and additions provide for the introduction of a legal obligation for schools, for founders and the restoring ministry to plan for enrolment of students in professional programmes in accordance with the HZZ recommendations and for each calendar year, therefore continuous harmonisation. Our children are mass enrolled in high school programs, and economic programs often do not continue to study afterwards, and for these directions, as figures show, there is no adequate demand until for those interests that exist we do not enroll enough children and this is a problem that has to be regulated legally. Professional education models are divided into a classic, dual and unique model of education, etc. Learning programmes where in all countries where training programmes are implemented, such as The best result is achieved in Germany, however, in Croatia it is precisely such a model that is the most neglected. Demographic movements also affect the reduction of the number of students, especially with three-year programmes of secondary vocational education and training. The current situation is unacceptable that the number of students has been halved in learning programmes in the last six years. I fear that in Croatia unless we take seriously the popularisation of vocational education, unless we make it as flexible as possible and in implementation, there are inconspicuous consequences for society. And that's why the responsibility of this law is greater. As always, the intention of the law is good, but the implementation, judging by what we've been able to look at so far, is something that causes doubt, and these are often practices that are signed, which are formally existing, and they're not actually there. Such situations are inadmissible because the person coming out of the education system simply has to be trained to perform on the labour market, must have those skills that the employer requires because it is in the interests of the employer and the student or future worker, and ultimately the economy as a whole, otherwise the time invested in such education is lost. We are responsible for our young people, they are our future. It is therefore good to legally prescribe the possibility of professional supervision of the introduction of this work-based teaching in the employer or in the practice of the employer in order to reduce such situations to the least possible extent or to disappear. I also see the problem of this bill as it provides for a multitude of obligations and conditions for the employer, so there is a possibility that a certain number will give up the contract for reasons that do not take into account the burden of entrepreneurs and their current motivation for the reception of students who are not satisfactory anyway. Practice has so far been reduced to the work of small craftsmen who have been difficult to motivate to make such a commitment, primarily because of the administration they must pass. This bill tightens the conditions and forgets that one of the problems and in the training programme was the lack of craftsmen who were willing to go into the licensing process. In order to obtain a license, learners must provide students with the conditions to acquire competences in the real working environment, including mentors with appropriate qualifications and pedagogical competences. Today, few employers want to take responsibility for teaching students without obtaining any encouragement or relief from the state. How many licensed employers are insured in the first place? This information would be well pointed out because it could certainly cover the depth of the problems that are hampered by the system of vocational education. I believe that this problem must be solved, I stress the sea through support for craftsmen and employers and had to be resolved through these legal changes as a more significant step towards a real solution to the problem. Particular attention should also be paid to improving the quality assurance system in vocational education. In order to get a picture of whether vocational education is intended, which means that it is in line with the needs of the students, but whether those who carry out the educational process are satisfied must create assumptions for the continued promotion of further development of the quality assurance framework. The professional school evaluation process also includes the school director who becomes the head of the quality committee and the person responsible for the work of the commission and the process of evaluating the institution itself. It is questionable that the Quality Commission reduces the number of members from 7 to 5 that it wants to improve the quality at all if the profession is isolated from this check and stresses each work should be rewarded. Certainly, economic development is important and market requirements need to be monitored, but at no point should the wider role of education and the education of pupils be ignored, so whether schools are vocational or general. I repeat, education needs to be understood as a fundamental social value and it is our social responsibility to work on restoring reputation and improving the status of teaching profession and school as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113092	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Dragana Jeckov will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113093	I would like to thank the esteemed president of the assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary with an associate. For this pay phone lately, more precisely, during one of the positions I have spoken, but also during the current morning of certain problems, obvious when it comes to vocational education, based primarily on the behaviour of the director of a Vukovar high school, a secondary vocational school, and of course in light of a decision that was abolished, fortunately abolished because I was one in a series of actually dissatisfied with the situation of enrolment in high school, especially that professional direction. For what? Because at the time I felt the same as now that according to the cost estimates for this season, we've already had a chance to hear that we're missing about 300,000 workers who are likely to have to come from abroad, which will be harder and harder to find because of the situation, because of the global situation they're in. However, what fascinates us is the fact that on the one hand we lack more than 300,000 workers, as a rule these very professional professions, and only in tourism, and on the other hand we are on the verge of Malta not disabling education or training and perfecting new workers, new young workers, which would, however, reduce this inflow of labour force to a certain extent, which would satisfy labour market needs. In his first reading, Professor Pupovac spoke about this topic and directed it according to the legislator one thesis, saying that it is good to mention work in the context of vocational education, but that what is good is to devote a bigger place to education, but that it is a double sword at the same time because there is a danger of neglecting education. Certain misunderstandings have also occurred, e.g. how to ensure this from pedagogical standards, professional standards and how to ensure full respect for the one who comes to acquire knowledge based on the work of an employer or a company? The final proposal referred to these issues by saying that the national curricula for vocational education has established the share of generic competences in relation to the professional depending on the level of the Croatian qualification framework, and that the document obliges stakeholders in the vocational education system to comply with established levels. I'm afraid how much this answer has exceeded, how simple it is or how complicated it is, whatever you want. Just mentioned the balance between practice and theory is the key to quality education I hope that we all agree here and the goal of vocational education students should be training for productive work in the profession, but also for continuing schooling after secondary school and for permanent education and self-educated. However, this goal is only possible if we find a quality ratio between work and education, and I'm afraid we can't talk about the universal model. If 2 days of teaching and 3 days of practice is an ideal ratio for example for waiters, the same ratio can be counterproductive for hairdressers. Therefore, listening to the labour market is the only quality recipe for obtaining the formula of the mentioned ratio because it is the only way to create a quality workforce. So the notorical fact is that labour market needs for qualified professionals are large, but that they are also unfortunately in serious disproportionate to what we are, which our education system is producing today. On the other hand, the loud dissatisfaction of employers with the level of specific and applicable knowledge of students coming from our education system is evident. This is just saying that we haven't found a good enough recipe for vocational education yet and that we need reforms. A particular problem is how to respond to the increasingly frequent phenomenon that students with better average grades are increasingly rarely enrolled in vocational education programmes. All this leads us to find that further modernisation of the system and the development of new curriculum documents is necessary, with an emphasis on green and digital transition and the establishment of a firm framework of support for employers and schools in the further development of educational institutions. It is therefore necessary to encourage measures relating to the provision of a student scholarship system to acquire qualifications relevant to the labour market and to encourage the internationalisation of education and training of international mobility of pupils and teachers. Education, not only professionally and the labour market must be causally linked in all respects. Only when one follows the other will we get into a better situation than it is now or there will be no such surplus in certain professions or deficits in the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113094	You, too. Ms. Marijana Puljak will speak on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113095	Thank you. Here is my dear colleague and colleague, dear secretary, chairman, and I have been asked to read an open letter from the school teacher in Slavonia in this discussion of this Law on Professional Education. So in that letter, she addresses Minister Fuchs, so she moves with respected Minister Fuchs, you often point out that vocational education is a very complex part of education. You also say that there is a perception in Croatia that students should be directed to vocational education as much as possible, but that is different from how vocational education works at EU level and beyond. And how does this work at EU level? So students go to the practice they're insured and paid for. Our practice students seek for themselves, if anyone and receive them are happy because only paper is important. You say that in Croatia, about 70% of primary school graduates are enrolled in some form of vocational education while only 30% are enrolled in high school programmes. At Europe level, about 55% of students are enrolled in high school programmes, about 45% of professional programs, and from these professionals, only 4 to 6% continue later in higher education. In Croatia, out of those 70% who enroll in vocational education, almost 90% pass state education exams and enroll some form of higher education. Shame on them. Experts are taking state-level graduation exams and they're going to college. If you've finished your professional career, you've had enough, what a college. Where did the long years mentioned vertical and horizontal passing fail? Equalize schooling in everything. The salaries of teachers, the obligations and rights of students and parents, the material equipment in schools, and then we can talk about Europe. Of course, anyone who wants to be able to enroll in a study, however, problems in higher education arise later because of that part of general education that is still not as dumbed up in vocational education as they are in high school. And that's what you said. You're aware, and we all know that colleges suck at us like mushrooms after the rain. You don't touch them. If all graduates went to college, there'd be room left. Nevertheless, you keep your mouth shut, but this year you decided to close directions in vocational education in order to artificially raise the average of high school students, and we in the country have been missing the workforce for several years. But you won't succeed because there are many more vocational schools in the system. You don't want to admit that the education system is held by enthusiasts, teachers who do as much as you step on them, students who want and know what they want. The system he's doing everything to make it harder for them. You managed to take over one of the principals in Muć, whose debts the school would pay for years, and the school board of the school until the other day was seated by the current mayor of Split-Dalmatia County of Cogelj. You catch that, there's your problems, not the closing of your professional directions. Here I am finishing this open letter from the teacher of the vocational school in Slavonia, and I will see how long it allows me to go back to the debate from the first reading here, as the predecessors said, it hasn't changed much since the first reading, so also in this second reading. Therefore, the Law on Professional Education in this form in which it is proposed to wear the majority of really cosmetic amendments to the existing law does not enter into fundamental changes in vocational education. Because in order to increase the quality of vocational education, it is necessary to substantially change the structure of vocational education. In 2014, the Croatian Parliament adopted a strategy for education, science and technology that discusses priorities and measures to improve pre-school primary and secondary education, higher education, lifelong learning and adult education, and science and technology systems. The reform priorities highlight the flexibility of vocational education through selectivity and modularity, ensuring general education and obtaining key competences as the basis for further education and lifelong learning. It also provides for the introduction of work-based learning in all vocational education programmes to facilitate the transition of students from education systems to the world of work. The complete curricula reform that we all seem to have forgotten about early and preschool, primary school, secondary education and education began as the first measure of realising the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology but unfortunately it did not live in its fullness. And on today, if June 1st, we remember here we now remember I think in the last Croatian history of the biggest protests in Croatia that pulled out 50,000 people who protested in 2016 and sought quality education for their children. According to the 2016 to 20th Development Programme, the list of priorities whose solution is not visible in the steps proposed by this law is listed. Some of the above priorities are to improve the relevance of vocational education and training in relation to the labour market through the establishment of a rational and effective network of vocational schools and programmes, and to improve the quality of vocational education and training. It is necessary to start from changing registration policies through which to increase the attractiveness of vocational education and to adapt them to labour market needs. According to data for the year 2020/2021. As many as 70% of our students of the final classes of vocational schools are enrolled in high schools, which is an indication that vocational education in its primary function is not attractive enough. It is necessary to clearly identify indicators of quality monitoring of vocational education and training, and to define procedures for improving systems based on measurable indicators, since data on the quality of vocational education and training are currently not used as the basis for planning and decision-making, although the existing Professional Education Act defines the need for a single database for information monitoring and management of the quality system, the evaluation system and the collection of evaluation results, as well as encouraging and corrective measures. It is necessary to further improve the system of professional guidance before and during vocational education and training, especially in primary schools, in which students will be able to discover a tendency to certain professional professions. There is also currently no appropriate mechanism for monitoring the employability of secondary vocational school students, which would give a clear picture of the need for vocational education, i.e. the relevance of existing education programmes and contribute to ensuring the quality of vocational education and training. Furthermore, the concept of professional curricula needs to be substantially changed, i.e. a significantly higher selection should be introduced. Students of three - year - old schools attend five days of teaching and Saturday practice. The question arises if a worker is entitled to two days of rest a week, why do students not have the same right? Students of three-year professions should reduce the number of classes in school, increase practice to at least two, three days a week. The experience of persons who have been educated in Western European countries speaks of significantly greater choice and orientation on the profession. For example, in Switzerland, students of vocational schools spend two days a week at school, three days with an employer for teaching. Students in Finland have a theoretical class one day a week, other days of practical teaching on which many professional classes are covered through work. Therefore, for any specific changes it is necessary to increase the number of hours of practical teaching, to reduce the number of students in classes, or to increase the number of classes in order to increase the quality of the teaching process. It is also important to work on the quality of practical teaching. In this law, something is trying to change, so on this issue, introducing additional obligations for mentor masters. I mentioned here and on the board the need for practical teaching to be considered as a working experience in employment, allowing young people to be more competitive on the labour market after completing their education. In the European context, there is also a very important role in the internationalisation of vocational education and training, as well as in promoting the mobility of students and teachers, which is also highlighted by combat European documents. So here is the final point to note that there is a significant space for strengthening the capacity of schools to participate in projects to improve the availability of project results and raise their quality, to include the public and economic sectors, and to improve the networking of potential applicants. So for all these reasons, we believe that this law as proposed cannot get our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113096	Thank you. Mr. Davor Dretar will speak on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113097	Thank you very much, well-respected chairman, respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. A few lines from the very text of this bill. Here we are in the second reading. And once again, I always like to start by finding out how good that sounds. For the education system, the most important thing is to recognise the current and future demand for qualifications that will be needed for economic development, no doubt that is true. As the structure of the economy changes according to the needs of employers, in order to strengthen competitiveness on the global market, the structure of the necessary knowledge and skills is also changing. Sit down five. The maintenance of competitiveness is only possible if such necessary knowledge and skills are present in educational outcomes, standards and qualifications that lead to improved vocational education. Research conducted by the Ministry of Science and Education together with the European Professional Agency between 2016-2018 shows that the existing models of vocational education do not meet the needs of the individual and the labour market and that there is an increasing step in the supply of qualified workers and their demand on the labour market. So, from 2016-2018 we heard here from MP Glasovac that we also have a legal framework from 2014, the view of the calendar tells us that it is 2022. And that we're close to her other half. The results of an analysis of employers' views have shown that only a third of employers are satisfied with the level of competence of young people and that the main problem is the lack of practical knowledge needed to carry out a particular job. We also talked about it here during the first reading of this legislative proposal when we pointed to the fact ie. I'll say I pointed out the fact because I got it or got it from talking to a lot of colleagues and colleagues who are in the so-called. The real sector, private entrepreneurs, restaurant owners regretted that they were leaving the school to say so, the completed professional workers who do not know how to file fish, waiters who do not know how to set a table and things like that, as well as what profession has its own requirements. It is further said here, it is also necessary to provide relevant support mechanisms that will bridge the insufficient interests of the participants to participate in certain vocational education programmes that are relevant in relation to labour market needs. Here I see here on the way here is said to be prescribed and the possibility of granting scholarships. One article that I recently found, and it's very related to this is about the situation in Krapina-Zagorje County where a group of privates is being built, which from the catering or any other sector complains that they would like to scholarship someone young who would come to work with them, but that interest simply does not exist. We'll see if this works, but I'm afraid it's hard. The mandatory connection between the professional curricula and HKO through the standard of interest is also foreseen as a key element of the link between the curricula and the needs of the labour market. It's all very, very, very handsome. Finally, it says that by adopting this law, we will create and bring about key changes relating to strengthening work-based learning with a view to raising the quality of its implementation and stronger integration of schools and employers, etc., that we will contribute to better coherence of the education system with the labour market, ensuring a sufficient number of skilled labour force, their faster adaptations and performance at the workplace and better passing of students who continue education for a higher level of qualification. Let me put one here, however, but since the situation on the ground has denied all these intense desires, here is a view of the real state. Only the construction sector currently lacks a minimum of 20,000 workers and only for renovation jobs, no one knows where to find them. Currently in the construction sector, around a hundred thousand workers, almost a third of them, are slightly more than 30,000 foreigners. The capacity of construction companies has been filled for the next two years, so when we listen to the new minister's stories about the fast or accelerated process of reconstruction, I'm not sure whether he means it or possibly ready to put gloves, shovel and catch the mixer. As for the caterer, 35,000 waiters, chefs, receptionists and other workers are missing at the beginning of the season. If we're looking for reasons, it's not hard to spot the first one, the pay's too low. But is that exactly the case, or is that the only reason? It may be at first sight, but there are certainly other reasons for such a bad situation on the labour market in Croatia. The lack of a thought-out strategy is equally to blame for these problems. Only by adopting these and similar laws will we fail to achieve a balance between supply and demand in the labour market. The state must first design and then implement a strategy for the entire economy in the project must include both employers and trade unions. Without them, we will find it difficult to answer the most important question, how many workers we need, and from what profession. When we define how many of us and what professional educational people we need, we will be able to go one step further and identify needs for sectors, and to implement the long-term harmonisation of the education system according to sectoral requirements. It will certainly not help what this law, obligation of schools and the Ministry of Education to plan students' enrolment in professional programmes in accordance with the HZZ recommendations, but that is not enough. We must also protect the Croatian worker by creating a regulated labour market where he will receive adequate compensation for his work and retain both work and human dignity, so that those statements are never repeated again if you will not have anyone. Just a few examples of life, my friends asked a couple of guests for documentation for legally hiring two foreigners from Asia at the chef’s workplace. Permissions, and that's why the workers waited over a year. The mentioned duo arrived in Croatia long after the tourist season ended, although for them there was no work anymore, my friends of the caterers decided to keep them both for winter, give them of course and pay and accommodation some people learn the language and naturally culinary technologies used in this rather specific craft in the Croatian area. Before the new season one simply disappeared, they found a few days on social networks working at a restaurant in Portugal, that's a big question, what we were talking about here and talking about in the story of adult education and those vouchers keeping people in Croatia, that's what I wanted to emphasize. I've got a vet in my family, four years later. education this acquired calling is not necessary for enrolment in the veterinary college, students and students with high scores at the state's graduation are favored from those in which high school students have a huge advantage, Croatian language, mathematics, foreign or classical language, biology, physics or chemistry, there is another illogicality. It's clear to all of us that time brings change, that nothing is the same as 50 years ago, and that's what I'm going to tell you about in the last minute. I remember well, my parents bought me a basic school bag from a leather bag or a bag. He also made me a pants belt, him and his shop are gone today. Grandpa wore a hat he bought at the hatter's, shoes he bought and later fixed at the carpenter's. Grandma and Mom used to go to the tailor's neighbor's house and say "Snitchers" and spend hours and hours there, you know, you remember that they listed what they said. The ark of the ark. I'm old enough to remember the umbrella repairer and the potter. The house was built on hands after hours, if there was to be more hands, it was well known where at least 100 of them could be found. The electricians fixed our TVs, radios, tape recorders, and record recorders. Most of these occupations may still exist today, but only in some plan or piece of paper, time simply changed the conditions under which these people could gain their education and, of course, a later opportunity to earn their living with their work. So the Department of Homeland Movement Club is going to run another round of consultations, and then we'll decide when the time comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113098	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Vesna Bedekovic will represent HDZ positions, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113099	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the distinguished secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Representatives Club will therefore support this Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Professional Education Act. I will only remind myself that the system of vocational education and training in the Republic of Croatia is regulated by the existing Professional Education Act, which HS adopted in 2009. and since then, the need for this novelty that we are currently working on is in fact an expression of the need to modernise the law and, above all, the expression of the need to adopt a legal framework that will be the basis and framework for all the reform processes that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is planning and which it has put into place in its plans and programmes, in particular in the 2020 to 2024 programme, where the aim is to continue the reform of vocational education and, inter alia, in the context of investing in education, science and research in the field of interventions in the field of vocational education and education of adults where interventions are designed primarily to bring the education system into line with the needs of the labour market, development and improvement of new curricula for qualifications are those that needing the labour market, of course through the establishment of a solid framework of support for employers and schools in which it is important to highlight employers becoming partners. It should also be recalled, and I will remind you that it is in the national programme or NPOO from 2021 to '26. in Chapter 3, which includes education, science and research, point 1 of the reform of the education system, inter alia, planned and carried out activities in the system of vocational education, which will primarily focus on better integration of vocational education and education of adults with the labour market through the continuation of further modernisation of the system and the development of new curricula documents. Now what, in this sense and in this context, are these amendments and additions to the Law on Professional Education? First of all, what should be pointed out is that these amendments and additions are introduced for the first time in the Law on Professional Education and this obligation for all schools, for all founders and resolutional departments, in line with the recommendations of the HZZ for education registration policy and scholarship policy, and that is one way to remove the gaps between labour market needs and the selection of vocational programmes. Likewise, for the first time in this final proposal, it is said, therefore, that the possibility of granting scholarships is prescribed. It also foresees a mandatory connection between the professional curricula and the Croatian qualification framework through the standard of interest as a key element of the link between curricula and labour market needs, which is extremely important. Similarly, more detailed arrangements shall be made for the implementation of the self-evaluation procedure in the institutions for vocational education and shall clearly define all procedures and responsibilities during that procedure. It should also be pointed out that there are provisions in the law concerning regional competence centres which provide that the regional centre of competence can provide through a public private partnership the means to secure working machinery, equipment and all other conditions for the implementation of work-based learning, and also introduce legal provisions relating to the mentor with the employer and prescribe his obligations, his duties in working with the students involved, in learning based on the work of the employer. What does that mean to accomplish? Therefore, it wants to achieve this more intensive and quality cooperation between vocational schools and between employers. When we look at the differences between the final amendment proposal and the addition of this law in relation to the first reading, of course, with the linguistic amendment of the text, therefore in the final proposal for amendments and additions, some articles have been completed, and in particular Article 1 which is changed in paragraph 4. in such a way as to prescribe how part of the activities of vocational education is implemented by teaching whether, in order to reduce the number of different models of professional curriculas for the same interest for which the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Economy are now responsible, it is very, very important and valuable because it will reduce the number of different professional programmes on the one hand, and on the other hand, I believe that their quality will improve. The definition of the national curricula for vocational education has also been amended in Article 2, thus harmonising this definition with the Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools and the Law on vocational education. Then what I think is important to emphasise is a developed provision that prescribes the process of determining the conditions for carrying out work-based learning. Similarly, what is quite important to me is Article 21, which provides for the obligation to draw up findings on the professional supervision carried out, the content of the findings and to which it is delivered. Moreover, procedures are prescribed in the event that the deficiencies and irregularities identified are not removed within the time limit, which, in my opinion, directly affects the operationality and improvement of the situation in practice. Also, what I particularly commend is that, as I said in the reply to the Secretary of State, in its opening presentation, these are all the provisions relating to improving the quality system in the field of vocational education, which I believe will in due course yield fruit because we need not only to modernise but to ensure quality implementation in all segments, which will then result in better competencies of our students who are entering professional programs that will then help them better to get on the labour market. I would like to remind you that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources because they are already provided within the Ministry of Science and Education, within the Agency for Professional Education and Education, and in the state budget for this year with projections for 2023 and '24. The funds amounting to 240 almost 250 million kuna in this year and 200 and approximately 280 million kuna in 2023. And based on everything I've said so far, the final club of HDZ representatives will support the final proposal to amend and supplement the Professional Education Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113100	You, too. Mrs Katarina Peovic will represent the Croatian Peasant Party and the Workers' Front. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113101	Good afternoon. Although in all other categories Croatian high school students show weaker results than the European average for PISA research, meaning reading, mathematics, natural sciences there is one category in which our students are significantly better than the rest of Europe. Our students are above the average status rate. It means social status. So our students don't associate their results with social status. So given how rich their parents are, which means they belong to the class class of our students in relation to German, Austrian students do not show that social status coincides with the results of the PISA study. This should be an optimistic result, but all the laws of this country mean for some time now that this data is changing. So the tendency of this and similar laws in the field of education is that social differences become linked to success. And this is achieved in different ways this success means class differences among students. One of them is blocking vertical mobility. I think that insisting on learning is based on work, meaning the term that replaces the practical education so far just shows that trend. So learning based on work is about blocking vertical mobility to block the possibility that a student means a high-school medical school enrolls a medical school that a school student means a machine-orientation enrolls a engineering college and so on. We don't need it, I'm going to say, cynicalally, highly educated workforce, we need people who work for small wages, in unattractive jobs, in unsatisfactory jobs, and in this law, as well as a series of other laws, that's what happens. After HDZ has secured cheap labour and these are students and pensioners, it is necessary to ensure that this army is joined by high school students. So you say it like this. The amendment to Article 24. Otherwise, Article 11 states: “It means learning based on work is a learning that will acquire the specific knowledge and skills needed for independent and safe and responsible work and solving how to say nice real problems, the work process of a given profession. Otherwise, learning based on work is based on dual education, meaning part of the educational institution and most of the employer’s work, which is the way education is taken from the German speech area in which we like to see ourselves. I hope the high school kids who are going in now aren't from vocational high school because this might scare them. So learning based on work is at the same time a skill-oriented learning. It is the same expression that is often used that is increasingly potent compared to our present system. So the goal is to block against other countries in our country above the average vertical mobility, the possibility of a student of the vocational school to enroll a university but also to gain skills and the possibility of critical opinion. So the goal is to increase class differences by eliminating wide education for those who no longer need it according to HDZ. At the same time, HDZ joined in, assisted by an employer's lobby, to which HDZ will deliver students as an additional cheap and unpaid workforce. The dual education, which explicitly favours employers' interests, aims to turn high school students into underpaid, poorly educated, and thus poor mobile labour. The interest of employers should not be surprised at all because it is a public secret, meaning that students are already filling out labour shortages in the good part of the trade chains. That this is the case with the article in the current law, means the amount of compensation for a student who works with an employer is only 10% of the average salary in the first year, 15% of the average salary in the second year and only 25% of the average salary in the third year of teaching. So after three or four years, when a high school student has practically mastered skills and is able to carry out his own activity, practically the employer has a trained worker. He's only required to pay 25% of the salary. But that's not all. The Croatian Chamber of crafts has done research to show that even such a low fee is rarely paid in full, so students do not pay even that church of 10, 15 and 25% in most cases. And now, instead of changing it, it goes further with this famous alignment with the labour market, with that what should be harmonised is the labour market with the reality not of education and education with the labour market, but of the market, the famous labour market that should and could be brought into line with reality, with the fact that we have a huge inflation that we have an increase in prices and that labour prices must rise. Workers' salaries for their work should be dignified, decent wages are not a case we neither encourage, nor does this government go in that direction. What we have is the lowest, among the lowest salaries in the EU, minimum and, in particular, average salaries. Floscula is missing a worker, so that flossula has been heard here countless times. So with us missing workers, we don't lack workers like we don't lack workers anywhere, but the price of work is that workers go to work abroad. 17.6% of the labour force, the labour force, has not moved out because of tourism or because they want new experiences, but because it is with us, means the labour price is three times lower than in Europe. So our labour price is three times lower than in Germany, Austria. The total cost of working hours was 10.9 euros in 2018, while at EU level was 27.4 euros. So our employee works for three times the salary. That's why entrepreneurs have been pressured for years and still pressured to lower labour prices and to create that pool of labour from pensioners, high school students and now means students, and now high school students that it means finding one who will work for less. There are always those who will work for less, so HDZ agreed to change the Foreign Law a year and a half ago, where imports of labour have been fully liberalised to make it possible for us to actually have a situation where we always have someone who will work for less pay. Instead of working to promote vertical mobility, to increase students and meaning not only those skills-oriented work ethics or working perspectives but also that in those high schools it is very important to include a humanities group of subjects and that students have the ability to go from secondary vocational schools to colleges that are connected to their professions we are going to go to the fact that this high school generation is a lot of them, because, as we have heard, even 70% of secondary schools have the ability to disable vertical mobility and that colleges are actually reserved only those who can afford it, and whose results will be brought into line with their class perspective, or their social class. Everything here is a lot of glorification of the market, labour markets, qualifications of relevant labour markets. But without a proper assessment, what is the market? If we were actually to get those labour market analyses, what would we actually get? So we would get labour market needs in the biggest direction towards trade and tourism. So if we were to really do such correlations then we would all really work in trade, be caterers, be waiters, be maids, and that's what this country needs, and instead of adapting to secondary education to the labour market, I would like to adapt to the labour market to smart, industrial progressive policies that provide well-paid jobs, education that provides knowledge for well-paid quality jobs, and not for real labour that will be exploited and which will be underestimated. I'm going to say something about concrete amendments in my own presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113102	Thank you. Let me now welcome to the gallery of students OS Podmurvice and students of OS Hearty Rijeka, a nice greeting... We will continue the debate, on behalf of the SDP Club, the assembly will be addressed by the Vice President. [[Applause]] Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113103	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate, Right on today 1 June 2016 One of the few, but one of the most massive protests in the Republic of Croatia, which has actually sent a very strong cry to Croatian citizens and citizens in which they have told them that they want a better and better education and that they are very clear how much education is the key to the progress of the Republic of Croatia. And there was a large transparency that made very clear what should be clear to all of us today in HS, but not only in HS, but also in the government which is the main body for policy-making and which is obliged to implement the policies that HS adopts, which read "What school today, such Croatia tomorrow". Unfortunately, 6 years old. We haven't moved much out of place since that big protest. Today we have a proposal, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Education, and he is trying to answer some of the key problems that affect this one, and I will dare say in the system of adult education the most abandoned system of education, which is a system of vocational education and training. Despite the fact that 62.2% of high school children, high school students are involved in exactly vocational education, which is this dropout percentage of 3% of the lowest in Europe, which actually tells us that almost all children who enroll in vocational education or secondary education are the same and end up. However, we still have a situation that one good part of children, just those who enroll in vocational education end up at the Employment Service and I will repeat it myself, I have said it here for this speaker several times and in the debate in the first reading, it would not be possible for a Swiss who has money, and Croatia does not have it. Professional programmes, vocational education, crafts programmes are extremely demanding, extremely expensive, and not an existing policy of registration and quality assurance, and this communication of the market and professional programmes, we are in a situation that actually children who finish secondary education programmes unfortunately go to the Employment Service and become a problem, remain a problem to themselves and become a problem to the state. This Croatia must practically change. Whether this law will change it I wish it would, but I'm not sure about it. It says the intensity of the law that this system is kind of modernised and that's logical because we have 300 institutions in Croatia that carry out vocational education, these programs have been fragmented, we have at school on average 10 different, different programs, for this we need important financial, staff, organisational, organisational conditions. We still have children who end up whether they end up with 3-year craftsmanship, so they go into 4-year vocational, then they join the national prom, maybe they want to go to a higher level of education, but today, even though we now have a degree adjustment to new curriculas, this year for the first time we have parallel two graduation systems and still those children, that graduation is not really adapted to them, in fact what they listen to during their high school education in vocational programs is completely something else and much less than what they are asked of at the national prom, about it here today, but in other government policies that should answer these questions. The Government of the Republic of Croatia finds on behalf of the promoter that the professional programmes in Croatia are obsolete, that they are, but we have since 2014. The strategy of science and technology education, which is a key national document which is very clear about the vision of education from pre-school education and education through basic, secondary, and to high and science and technology that has set the goals and these things very clearly, we should have discussed these things long before, which we did in the 8th year, we did nothing. The only step we have thanks to the extraordinary effort and commitment of the former assistant minister or assistant minister of Mr. Spray is that we have as much developed and established a system of regional centres of competence as possible. This man was trying to do something, he had a very clear vision, unfortunately he's not at the ministry anymore, that I'm not talking about the damage done by the former minister by a partial approach to the implementation of the Science and Technology Strategy and the Kuricular Reform where, as in the shopping centre on the Swedish table, he took parts of what the state had set for himself as a national policy, he took some of it and applied it, and the others completely ignored it, and that's why today 8 years ago. Afterwards, we're just talking about how we're going to try to put a system of vocational education on some of our feet. I am not pleased that, in this law, the definition of national professional curricula is not in line with the key document which has been in force since 2018, published in the National Journals, the decision to make a national curricula for vocational education. There's nothing else but this, and I don't understand why you're defining what it's a national curricula professional for vocational education why you've changed it. It doesn't make sense that one document doesn't talk to us. You are referring to the Law on Education and Education, yes, but this same Law on Education and Education is also to be brought into line with documents and decisions that are valid, and not now inventing new trends. Simplify and change things. It's no use, it's no use. It's clear to me that these are trying to finally connect the labour market to, that there's something else I wanted to say. Regardless of the national curricula, curricula for professional professions, sectors however you like don't look at the light of day the way we should and the dynamics we'd like to. They're working somewhere far from the public and it's not really good and dynamic that's not satisfactory. It's nice to try, at least that's how you expressed that desire in this law to connect or manage entry policies in some way in a way to force school founders to create sustainable policies together with schools. What does sustainable policies mean? This is not necessarily a policy that blindly follows the need for labour markets because this need is changing. It is a policy that looks at the long-term development plans of that county, a certain climate, which sees where someone wants to develop, and then, accordingly, with the feedback of the economy and craftsmen and entrepreneurs at that time, creates things in a way that should satisfy both sides. However, I continue to be troubled by the answer to the question, we today have every assumption in our laws that such a registration policy is being implemented. That I do not now list, the Law on Education and Education, the Law on Professional Education, Article 20, Article 22, the Law on crafts, the recommendations for admission policies and the scholarship of the 2021 day, all the tools and mechanisms we have at this time which say that registration policy and registration plan for programmes in the area of a particular county, which the founder proposes to the ministry, and the ministry must work in creation, in association with local self-government and in accordance with the needs of the economy, and following the recommendations of the HZZ. That doesn't seem to be the case, and I haven't unfortunately seen mechanisms in this bill that will ensure that we come to this goal only by changing in this way a legal solution. Maybe I've overlooked something, if I am, I'm asking you to correct me. It is also nice that we are tightening the conditions and in some way learning based on the work we are transferring to the employer, which we define as the mentor who is key in this educational process, we are going to meet him that he does not have to spend 225 hours teaching students but we are reducing it to 40, I am a little skeptical about it, but okay, if we want to speed up, speed up the processes, but I am still asking myself where the accompanying documents are related to this law, where there are other incentives, other motivations, tax reliefs that employers, craftsmen and entrepreneurs are encouraged to engage in one of these projects and to know that one of their people is de facto labour, one person must sacrifice under quotes to work with these young people. I'm not sure that's where we found the best, best balance and the best solution to encourage it. In addition, it is necessary to work on a strong promotion of crafts and professional professions, to reconsider the benefits and incentives for craftsmen and entrepreneurs to enter this project. The idea of a public private partnership is not bad not only in organisational terms but also in terms of content, but I don't think it's well enough, well enough worked out. And I'm going to finish this off some more details I'm going to mention in an individual debate. The intention is good, but I'm not sure the solutions to this law are going to be effective enough to guarantee law enforcement, perhaps, but key intensity, I'm a little skeptical about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113104	Thank you, here's the word now appeared on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU and the independent representatives of Mr. Legis Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113105	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, that on the, by the alphabet after SG goes SH right, so it's all under control. So 32 years ago I heard the vice president that he performed on a television show, there was a multi-party in these areas, there was democracy, but I think our world of work, I'm going to deliberately speak the world of work because the worker is not a slave, but the subject in the process of work is for me a 10 and 1 command of God not to underestimate the workers and their social, human and all other needs. So after 32 years, we're still prisoners of some flossules from the former system. But these are not floscules, these are affluent sayings, however, leave lasting consequences for the Croatian people. One doesn't go, son, says "go to school so you don't have to work" and the other one's even worse "get on with yourself", so if you need to go to Prnjavor or somewhere in Bihaq drivers exam. So, still, we still pay the price of that in vocational education. I will also quote here first and foremost before I support the changes that are certainly not enough for the future world of work, for the vocational education and needs that this world of work will have in Croatia but also beyond, I will quote Mr. Professor Slavko Kulic who says, we are a small country in a globalised world and if we do not learn at all, in all segments of vocational education, adult education, academic titles, the development of all possible sciences then we are at great risk that advanced technologies will become inaccessible and that we will forget our skills and know our predecessors. So we forget part of our identity and become just one tiny crumb in a globalized, globalized world. Today, the Honorable Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs, is today the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Education. I suppose we are all aware of the problems of discrepancies between the needs of the domestic world of work and the human production of the Croatian education system. The education system and the world of work are inseparable social subsystems with extremely sensitive and complex regulation mechanisms and should be taken into account in any potential legal arrangement of this matter. Without the mutual cooperation of the education system and employers, I will now stand here with employers, who are our employers in vocational education. Whether it's people trained for employers or it's masters who did it, blacked out, and now they hire young people who pay a little money say let's torture, and I was struggling when I was young or they recognize them in all their potentials, and they want them to develop, to be strong experts in their field, father mechatronics, father one, one interest without whom we can't have father ceramics, father's electroinstallers, these are the professions that they need every day where technological development is monitored, so these employers want them to be better than them, to continue this job or want to earn little money on their work, on their youth, etc. It's the same big question in which it's going to revolve whether the project and this new law will succeed or not. It's a question of our relationship to this work, of our relationship to these young people. So that cooperation, cooperation of the educational system, students, or students and employers. Yes, but real employers who will have a vision of the future and the development of this activity, the development and the profession, the profession in the future. Of course, without this cooperation, we can hardly expect to successfully activate all domestic economic potentials. It is therefore important to point out that the partnership between school institutions and employers in the implementation of professional curricula is the basis on which to rest the improvement of quality in vocational education with a lot of denials, with a lot of energy. One of the frequent complaints that we can hear in public also refers to unsatisfactory competences and skills of students who finish high school. The quality of coordination between vocational education or adult education with the world of work and the adoption of new curricular documents is set up as an imperative for the entire education system. Further modernisation of the system with special emphasis on green and digital transition is a logical and natural response to the needs and challenges of the modern information age. It is this legislative proposal through its normative framework that suggests, in some ways, that we should see a continuation of the successful quality assurance process through the optimisation and rationalisation of vocational education and strengthening, work-based learning and quality-based learning in terms of stronger integration of schools and employers. The possibility of granting incentives in the form of scholarships to include students in relevant and market-based curricula is a solution that deserves special praise because it takes into account the current social moment in the Republic of Croatia and represents an excellent incentive and motivation for young people at the beginning of their professional career. The practice performed by students in the employer is invaluable for the quality and successful future work of students and for the acquisition of the necessary competences and skills for the world of work. Therefore, the introduction of professional supervision is, be careful here, you must be very careful that one who sees it is competent to evaluate this cooperation and this process, the learning process, not to be a student in any way more professional than the one who conducts the surveillance. The introduction of expert supervision of work-based learning by the employer is therefore a significant step towards a more complete regulation of the whole process. I am obliged to note that this legislative proposal also brings a whole range of other improvements such as the regulated mentoring system, improving the conditions for further work of regional centres of competence, but also ensuring the quality of curricula related to the Croatian qualification framework. I believe that systematic, systematic, systematic planning of enrolment of students in the vocational programme, in line with the recommendations of the HZZ for an educated registration policy and the long-term and targeted policy of scholarship of students, will, in particular, contribute to the creation of new educational perspectives and to raising the entire standard of economic and service activities in the Republic of Croatia and beyond. My dear future professionals or workers in all the interests necessary for life are very important because your borders are no longer Croatia, be more successful than your teachers, your borders are the whole EU today, freely market it, I am not one of those who will condemn anyone if they are looking for a better place under the sun, they really need to think about it, and who will continue after they leave, their profession to provide services to citizens. Respecting these arguments, the HNS and HSU and the independent MPs will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113106	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on behalf of the clubs and we move on to individual debates in which the word would have Mrs. First. Dalia Oreskovic, but she is not here, and then she loses the right to debate, and behind her immediately, it is up to her colleague Rade Simičević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113107	I would like to thank Vice President HS, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The system of vocational education and training in the Republic of Croatia is regulated by the Law on vocational education governing vocational education, training and training. The government of the Republic of Croatia is a programme for 2000-2024 and for the NPOO 2021-'26. plan to continue the reform of vocational education in order to enable young people to learn, think, adapt to constant changes and new circumstances, permanently improve their education and education systems, hence, and vocational education is of strategic importance for the development of society. The research carried out by the Ministry together with the European Professional Agency in the period from 2016 to 2018 shows that the current model of vocational education does not meet the needs of individuals and markets and that there is an increasing gap between the offer of qualified workers and their demand on the labour market. The research has also shown that there is a need for more intensive and quality cooperation between vocational schools and employers involved in education, and that responsibility for overall learning outcomes is not clear to all involved actors. The issues that the law seeks to address are the first key changes in terms of strengthening work-based learning and stronger integration of schools and employers. Second, learning based on work unlike the practical classes and exercises that have been done mostly in high school workshops, employers become equal stakeholders in building skills and skills that will be desirable for young people. For the first time, the proposed law introduces legal obligations for schools of founders and a resolution ministry when planning to enroll students in vocational programmes in accordance with the HZZ recommendations for education registration policy and scholarship policy. Unfortunately, we know that, for university alone, we have 39 thousand graduates, and universities need 46 thousand, thousands of places to achieve more intensive and quality cooperation between vocational schools and employers, as well as to strengthen the quality of learning based on work. For the first time, legal provisions are introduced with regard to mentors in the employer, and his obligations and duties are prescribed to work with students who participate independently in work-based learning. Before we had 200 and a few hours, we now have 40 hours that are necessary for the mentor to carry out quality and successful teaching practice with students. It is also clearer to prescribe and extend the duties of an employer who receives students, and to more clearly prescribe and extend the obligations of students who go on learning based on work code, to the employer. Legislative amendments, for the first time, introduce uniform criteria for granting scholarships, and can also provide funding from the state budget, the founder's budget, from EU funds, from the employer, as well as from other sources. The adoption of the proposed law enables key changes to strengthen work-based learning with a view to raising the quality of its implementation, as well as stronger integration of schools and employers, improving quality assurance systems in vocational education, establishing mechanisms and criteria to encourage participants to choose qualifications relevant for the labour market, improving conditions for further development of regional competence centres. It is therefore necessary, in addition to everything said, to bring the curricula into line with social needs, because if the curricula is not in line with the social needs of the employer, the employer will not be able to employ a qualified staff, and the consequences will be reduced social and economic development, higher unemployment, lower wages and pensions. Therefore, the reform of vocational education and general education in Croatia should be in line with strategic economic goals and make our country even better for work and education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113108	Thank you. Here is my colleague Simičević, who has caused a whole series of polemics with his semi-agricultural debate, first in line for his colleague Vesna Bedekovic, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113109	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear fellow Members, you pointed out in your debate that in fact this amendment and the addition of this law is actually a single legislative framework, i.e. the basis for implementing the reform of vocational education. One of the important elements is I would say the important assumption of reform in the system of vocational education and the modernisation of contemporary curricula and certainly their adaptation to labour market needs, with an emphasis on learning based on work. These are three important things that, therefore, as an effect, we can have greater employment in this sector and greater competences of our students. From the perspective of the principal, you were the principal, not the vocational school. So how do you look at these steps in terms of attraction? A student to enroll professional programs? [[Invadica Vidovic: Time of colleague.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113110	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113111	Thank you, colleagues. Yeah, we heard here before from the pay phone that before professional occupations that they were considered less valuable. However, by changing the social system each work is worth especially this professional because it is he who brings added value and makes society more successful than before. What I can say from the perspective of the director and in cooperation with my colleagues I come from Zadar County, that the role of directors is extremely important especially in the planning and designing of new curriculas. Unfortunately, we haven't had that kind of opportunity so far, but we've had it all figured out, given, and then we should've spent it. But the times today are quite different and really people who have visions, the idea can come up with new curriculas, and thus hit those future occupations. which will be attractive. [[Invader Vidovic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113112	We have the next replica of counterpart Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113113	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague. Amendments and additions to the laws also improve further conditions for further development of regional competence centres in such a way as to provide for the inclusion of private initiatives in the development of centres. In this way, the private public partnership will also provide the means for working machinery, equipment and all that is necessary for the implementation of work-based learning. Let's say Lika-Senj County doesn't have a single centre, a regional centre of competence and will hardly have it unless the current circumstances change significantly. It is a county that is also focused on the development of tourism, both sea and continentally on agriculture, and children do not have the ability to study in these sectors or are reduced. How will we from smaller backgrounds develop the economy if we do not have trained personnel and do you think regional competence centres should be deployed in all parts of the Republic of Croatia Not just in big cities. [[Invadica Vidovic: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113114	Thank you very much. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113115	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleagues. Yes, we must do everything possible to develop Croatia evenly. So we can't be handicapped by birth. We are in our homeland and the Homeland should give us equal opportunities. I will surely advocate the same way as you, that all parts of Croatia or the county have centres of competence where professional people would come and where students would get equal knowledge and equal opportunities regardless of living in Lika, Dalmatia, Istria or Slavonia. And certainly if we want to keep people here in Croatia we have to give them the opportunity to be competitive in Croatia, we have to give them the opportunity to be competitive with other countries of the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113116	Thank you. Next replica of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113117	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Members of Šimičević you are a member of the Education Committee and we often talk about this topic not only on the subject of secondary schools, but also on the subject of study programmes at our universities and often study programmes, but also on such high school programs as we hear adapt to the availability of staff, according to the availability of professors who will be hired to implement such programmes at all. You were a longtime director. How do you think schools will react to this kind of reform especially when we look at smaller environments, whether it will be possible to adapt especially when we look at the market's very conditions as quickly as it is changing, how much new programmes will have to be designed, and the question is whether in small areas we will have enough time to adapt to the market as well as new high school programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113118	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113119	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleague for asking that, indeed, there will be a problem not only economically, sociologically, socially, and I think that ministry should be working for the next five years to be here. It's not easy, I also have the principal's applications from my county where I come from now at the beginning of the school year I won't say that the profession has been lifted, but the number of departments has dropped, and let's just say the number of students has increased. So the students stayed the same, but that's why people were lost on the other side of the clock. And that's certainly a problem, but if we want to create a system of education to measure this moment and the future then we're going to have to catch up with a reform that's going to be more extensive. and more comprehensive. [[Invadica Vidovic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113120	Thank you. My colleague Radolovic has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113121	Thank you, dear Vice President. The esteemed colleague in this legislative proposal explicitly mentions the possibility of a scholarship as one of the ways of removing the still noticeable gap between the needs of the labour market and what is offered by qualified workers. However, you yourself are aware after a long series of years, for the first time, the Ministry of Economy has not issued scholarships for deficiting occupations that amounted to 1,500 kuna and I am actually interested in you to comment on how the ruling thinks to develop then this scholarship system and what kind of scholarship policy we are talking about. Nor should it be mentioned how bitter both parents and students are because of what is actually put just to look beautiful on paper, and in practice completely different. The secretary of state simply told me at the first reading that it was not in the intelligence of their respective ministry. But if you're going to ball like that between the ministry, then I really don't see any point in putting such proposals in the legal procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113122	Thank you. Please respond to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113123	I thank my colleagues for asking. I think maybe we're chasing things here, so deficiting occupations are those interests that aren't on the labour market. Whether students are receiving or receiving a scholarship today for certain types of occupations that do not have a future in the labour market, I do not know, but this legal framework gives the possibility that both the ministry and employers and the EU and private persons can grant a scholarship, so there is a way that those students who choose this particular type of profession and get that scholarship whether the ministry should have greater authority on the grant and how to distribute it remains open, but I certainly think that today I know that there are these interests of the seamen and others who receive scholarships without any problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113124	I thank you and we have another replica of my colleague, Andreja Maric, here you are. And someone, so we've got a breach, here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113125	Thank you. He's been injured. 238, my dear colleague, you know exactly what I'm talking about. You were here during the first reading. It is not appropriate and it is not nice to twist the facts, these scholarships by the Ministry of Economy are closely related to your legal proposal and concern directly professional education, so it does not matter what you say is in the proposal that this will be resolved. We are interested here as a concrete opposition to how you will deal with it in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113126	Here's a colleague I'm going to have to say, I'm going to have to give a warning because this, you know, wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but a replica now has a colleague, Andreja Maric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113127	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you yourself have said something, and here we have heard several times that there is definitely a gap between the offer of qualified workers and what the market is actually looking for, or our economy is looking for, if we want to develop even more. Do you feel like we're having a bit of a cough all over this story because here's a little bit when you're looking at this on the web, so you see there's actually not enough programs and educational campaigns to raise awareness of the need to strengthen enrolment for deficits, so a little bit seems to me that we're a little bit late here, even here you have the headlines "Are professional occupations in Croatia dying", lacks the interest of young people for certain occupations. Do you think this legal framework will help to improve a little bit of these campaigns and educations and to get out of school those professions that we really need, which are deficiting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113128	Thank you. Replication response, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113129	Thank you. Thank you, colleagues. That we need to change our attitude on vocational education and vocational education is worth it, that is, I said before, that is what this one country's economy actually holds, and certainly needs to do everything to make those professional professions known. Whether we're doing enough prom or not, I just said it. We've actually been around a lot for many, long years I won't say in place, we're moving, but we're moving slowly, so we really need to take a step and do everything to get the jobs that the labour market needs. We now have a lot of schools and a lot of teachers, and maybe we have a little bit of children, so what's best to do is go outside, those who stay may not be well paid enough and then go to some other professions that have a problem on the labour market again because they'll never get to that job.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113130	Thank you, thank you, colleague Šimičević, you have finished your replicas, and now for the individual debate, a colleague, Katarina Peović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113131	Good afternoon. The famous labour market has been said something in this debate before, so I will, with concrete amendments, and before that, only to mention that it is quite shocking that the law has been prepared in this form because, as the attorney general has noticed, the very unprofessionally written law and it has not changed since the first to the second reading, means that it is not possible to copy articles in the interpretation of articles, so it means purely means professionally speaking, it is possible to agree with the Ombudsman not a professionally written law, so the explanation cannot be just a copy of the article itself, so that the rules of nomochniks and the provision of Article. 175. The Rules of Procedure of HS Law are not prepared means according to this. As for the concrete amendments that we are about to submit, it means first and foremost unclear how the quality of vocational education means to rise if the quality commission of these changes is actually decimated instead of 7 will get 5 members, and it is symptomatic that whoever took out the food from that commission, the teachers have gone out, so there is a clear message of that profession, the profession is the one that I am going to say, and I will even say the problem with all these famous alignments with the labour market, unclear qualifications, accusations that teachers and students themselves are not sufficiently adapted to that labour market that I repeat, I think what I said in the last debate, the labour market should be adapted to reality, reality, not education that it adapts to the famous labour market, then we might go forward like this, I think we coughed and coughed. However, the Quality Commission should certainly not lose two teachers where it means more important and the founder and the student and the representative of the parents, and the teacher comes into a subordinate position, and I think what is again is the classic liberal narrative, because who pays is to put his paw on it or to monitor it, and the teacher is being taken away by any authority, and the employers and parents are being placed in the position of the trustee, but it is a good practice that we follow at all educational levels is that parents, students become lawyers, their own lawyers, and that teachers are being torn down by the authority of food. In the background of such changes, I am afraid that there is everything I said and in the last debate means that the market should be given that all self-regulating is an invisible hand of the market, the best authority is I mean a vision of a society that is socially insensitive, socially unaccountable, etc., a society of capital does not work, but in any case we will put teachers in this amendment because Article 5 means no sense if it wants to improve the quality as it claims to be, then teachers should be the basis for confirming that quality or not the quality, so we will try eating the amendment hope that this majority will hear us, changing those 5 into 7 members as previously. Furthermore, we will intervene in Articles 13 and 15, so Articles 13 and 15, I don't think there can be too much intervention in the sense of what I said in the previous debate that the miserable fee these students receive for their work. So 5, 15, 25% in 3.4 years of average salary. In 3 years, you get a qualified employee who the employer has to pay only 25% of the salary. That's not enough. I mean it is really no fee, and yet the Croatian Chamber of crafts found that this amount is mostly the most common, not mostly but usually does not pay in full. Now, by law when you go, and in these amendments and additions to the law, you'll see why it is. Because it's called reward, rewarding students instead of later for his work, but we can't change that, so we're going to change these articles that exist. Article 13. where we will place that the employer may conclude a contract other than what is stated here if there are prescribed work spaces, equipment etc. And if he can and has the means to pay the reward to the disciple. And we'll also put in Article 15 that employers' duties are to pay off. In accordance with Article 31(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113132	We have two replicas on your exhibit. First is colleague Irena Simunic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113133	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues, one of the problems is the lack of practical knowledge among students leaving vocational schools to do certain work. The results of the analysis on the position of employers show that only a third of employers are satisfied with the level of competence of young people that is devastating to the system and raises the question of whether the proposed changes will solve this increasingly pronounced problem? Also, do you think that these legal changes will solve the burning problem of too many gaps between qualified workers and their demand on the labour market, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113134	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113135	Thank you. Of course not, I think, if the quality committee is also ousting those teachers, then it is clear that neither the legislator's intensity nor actually improving the quality of vocational education is. I also have to say that what would improve the quality of vocational education is not just a popular alignment with the needs that this has been said to the labour markets over and over again, but rather by just giving the profession of mandates to say what would improve professional skills, quality, knowledge in their particular profession, and not that here we adapt ourselves to the famous labour market because science is always one step ahead of that famous labour market and it has to predict what that labour market needs, and sometimes the labour market doesn't even know what it really needs to eat.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113136	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of her colleague, Maria Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113137	Dear counterpart Peovic, here I will refer to the labour market issue and how to bring the labour market into line with vocational education. According to the official documents, the HZZO recommendations for education registration policy and scholarship policy are determined on a regional and local scale and are, in their basis, qualitative, not quantitative, and point only to the existence of the need to increase or reduce the number entered in a particular professional programme. These recommendations shall not always be taken into account when determining the enrolment quotas for certain professional programmes and the need for a more efficient and precise system shall be recognised. So, what are we gonna coordinate? How are we gonna get along when there's no such recommendation at all? Nor is what is being done now adequately all and that this is the goal and that it is justified by how it is set up by this law and what we are under professional reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113138	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113139	Yeah, thanks for asking. What's really symptomatic of me here seems to me not only to have no data so that we can't actually see what it's harmonising with but that the intensity of the legislator is not really in line with the needs of eating. And for two reasons. One reason I brought out in the last debate is that I think this law and legal changes are going to ensure cheap or unpaid labour to employers. I warned you about how much these students were paid, and most often they weren't paid. So there is a free almost labour force in the absence of will not labour, but the will of the employer to pay for his labour force at all because the primary interest of the employer is to exploit the work of workers and profits and not to actually reach a high-quality worker. And the other thing is that actually here the employer of these legal changes falsifies compliance with that labour market. which has no intention of listening at all. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113140	Thank you. A fellow vice president of Sabina Vosovac's assembly has now been reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113141	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, this is the Programme for the Development of the Professional Education and Training System of the Republic of Croatia from 2016 to 2020. It's 2022 today, and I'm just going to remind myself of what we as a state have committed, and the ministry, among other things, has proposed to do by 2020. What preceded this programme was a structural analysis which showed and some data served here in the justification for the adoption of this law, that 70.7% of regular high school students in Croatia and around 140,000 were enrolled in some of the 2709 vocational curricula and professional curricula programmes of 66.25% of students in four years old and one five year old, it is the medical one. Professional education programmes 32.17% of students in three-year curricula programmes, j.m.o. and so-called The classic model and 1.58% of students were enrolled in two-year and one-year education programmes for students with disabilities. In the overall education system, there was a decline in the number of students due to negative demographic movements, and this trend was the most pronounced in enrolment in three-year programmes in the last 15 years, as the number of students finishing three-year programmes decreased from 21 000 from 1998 to only 11710 students in 2014. At that time, when this analysis was carried out in Croatia there were 299 institutions for vocational education, which on average had 400 students with an average of 10 different education programmes, which is extremely demanding in financial, human and organisational terms. Professional education and training in the Republic of Croatia prepares students for inclusion in the labour market, but also for the continuation of higher education at higher schools, an analysis of enrolment in higher education programmes in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the results of national graduation exams in the period from the academic year 10th to 11th and 14th, showed that 78% of students of four-year vocational schools successfully pass state exams, state graduation exams and 60.7% of vocational schools are enrolled in higher-school study programmes. During the period from 10 to 15 years, data from the Croatian Employment Institute show that the highest number of registered unemployed persons averages 58% to those with secondary education. All this is a beautifully done analysis, and a programme was designed to be implemented by 2020. The programme made it very clear that what the Republic of Croatia must do, or what it has given itself, is that it must bring the National Curricula for Professional Education, which was adopted in 2018. I said you're changing now in the law definition of what it is to be a national curricula for vocational education I don't know what it is and that a model of vertical and horizontal passing of students of vocational schools has not been done by 2017. Furthermore, sectoral curricula and curricula will have to be developed to obtain individual qualifications by 2020. Implementing measures and secured incentives for the implementation of all forms of work-based learning today we propose only a legal solution, but we have no analysis, no idea how to go down that path. It is also said that by 2020 a rational and efficient network of vocational schools and programmes will have to be established. We don't have that until today. We're going into a new law. That it will have to be established regional competence centres in all sectors by 2020. That's what I mentioned, the great effort was made by Mr. Spray, which is one that we obviously have from this program. That a new system of external student learning will have to be established through national exams, state graduation exams, has not been done. The external evaluation of the work of the institution has not been done to ensure the quality of the HKO application has not been fully done, etc. etc. One 20 measures, i.e. the results we were supposed to deliver by 2020, have not been done. Why do I say that? I understand the drive of this law and it all sounds nice, but if we don't stick to the documents we brought ourselves, which we only suggested ourselves, then there's nothing left of it, and that remains a dead letter on paper. Not to mention that no operational programmes have yet been adopted to finance the main activities that we do not have in our budget, and the funds are secured in the EU funds. So, while we don't have a clear analysis of the situation, a clear goal we want to go to, a clearly established network of programs and vocational schools, an institution that conducts this education and resources in operational programmes where it will clearly be allocated to what our national goals are and what dynamics we want to go from this law, unfortunately, life won't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113142	Thank you. We have a replica of our colleague, Maria Selak Rasudić, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113143	In the summer of 2018, of course, when, rather than in summer, your most frequently used interesting use of the Ministry of Science and Education as an appropriate time for public debates to introduce changes to the system. It started with what's called. the reform of dual education. And now we are in some way continuing this path with the reform of vocational education and no evaluation of clear, concrete and precise reform of dual education. How this is possible and how we can take a similar path without having previously seen what we have done and what will be the consequences of this previous reform in relation to this reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113144	Thank you. Answer me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113145	Excuse me. And I'm also wondering, colleague Rasdic, and this kind of approach actually without any analysis of coming here with a law that doesn't have its real foundation actually gives a very irresponsible picture of the government. I understand that we've had a huge outflow of students leaving a unique model of education in these classic models of education, because we, our government, have stopped craftsmen in some way at the end. I'm not going to say that we thanked them as partners, but we said that we want partnership and synergy in the education system, but not in a way that brings our students in as practitioners, that they're not paid, that they're not given the opportunity to learn about chefs, but that they're cleaning up some of the worst possible dishes there, and that in that way they don't actually have anything from that teaching. But what we're supposed to have in front of ourselves today with this bill is what we did with JMO, why he's no longer good anymore, why we're giving up the dual model and what we want from a work-based system. You're absolutely right. [[Invadica Vidovic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113146	Thank you. Thank you, colleague. Andreya Maric, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113147	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues about a month ago we could see that there was quite a heated public debate over the decision to enrol in certain schools, according to certain counties, cities, municipalities. So there was obviously a gap between the ministry's decision and the school's decision, i.e. the regional self-government unit to be enrolled. Something of the ministry has been abolished, so obviously there is nothing well done, on the one hand we have recommendations from HZZ, and on the other hand, the ministry which obviously does not know how to communicate well with what should be, so they say that every year, at the level of the Republic of Croatia, there are about 7,600 unfulfilled places, and apparently does not do what local and regional self-government units are supposed to do to precisely out-communicate which are deficiting professions, how to encourage school students to enroll in these occupations, but then eliminate classes, load into other classes, a number of students, and it really does not look like anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113148	Thank you. The answer to the replica will be, please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113149	The answer to that question is a little more complex. With all due respect to the founders and their rights in a decentralised system to manage human resources in a way that creates education policies where they are obtained, unfortunately we in practice have a situation that founders rarely on the proposal of schools bring unsustainable long-term education policies because of keeping jobs and the structures of employees in schools, and we are not going with the pursuit of what that entry policy should bring to a particular community, which is by following development programs to ensure that we have sufficient human potential to create all these development programmes and plans in the public. And I think this time where the ministry has to be able as a co-creator of state policy to say our goal is to manage human potentials not only blindly track the market or founders but also some higher interest, I fully support it, but we haven't found a balance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113150	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113151	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113152	Here I'm asking only colleagues and colleagues have a worse watch, so when they see it coming to an end, then let's all be in equal treatment. My colleague Katarina Peovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113153	Thank you. Here's a fellow Glasovac you said 58% of jobseekers come from vocational education, if I wrote it well, so as it may be, isn't it one paradox that we say there aren't enough workers, and that we have 58% of people looking for work, and that they're vocational education, so as we're not in some sort of a break, in other words, is it not what should be adapted to the labour market to some reality, and not just that education and education as we've heard here several thousand times adapting to the labour market. What I want to suggest is that our labour market is unfortunately reduced to hospitality and tourism, low paid and poor unquality jobs and what should be adapted is science and profession that should determine what needs to be done and what our economy and our development should look like.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113154	Thank you. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113155	I fully agree with you colleagues, Peović, and we have a problem with actually producing too little human, human strength that should carry certain sectors where they are much more needed, and too much where there is no need for this team, but it is not only a problem of this secondary system after the completion of secondary education, you know the same problem we have with high education where we are chronically lacking some human, human, human strength, and on the other hand, the state does absolutely nothing to do with this same social need, the need to satisfy, but it is no wonder when we have a situation now that we are missing, say, waiters, but when you look at a little bit of the registration programs you will also see that, this enrolment part is disabled in the sense that there is no interest, because I can do that and those who haven't finished formal education or...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113156	That's right, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113157	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113158	A colleague of the Hill has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113159	Dear colleagues of the Voice, I just want to remind you that the problem begins in our understanding of work. One of our neighbouring countries, or close country, the Republic of Italy, signed in its constitution that the republic rests on the work and values of work. I think we left that part behind in that part. We often call for the vocational education of reform procedures, reforms, reforms, there were all political groups here who kept saying reforms, reforms, reforms, and nothing out of reform. I think the continuity of monitoring and adapting the fluidity of the world of work is much better, a better formulation of what we should be doing, but it is not only on the part of the students of vocational education but also on the part of employers and on the side of the school system, so vocational education and they must change, and not just others ask to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113160	Thank you very much. Do you have a reply to the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113161	Absolutely, but we don't really follow what happens to our students or students after they finish that degree, a certain degree of education, and then it's logical that the state doesn't react because actually these data and alarms don't at all, it doesn't activate in places where we should, and on the other hand we're witnessing how we're surprised, imagine no one will come to Croatia to work as a butcher or as a cook for 25 thousand kunas net, so normally people won't come to work when that job that guarantees them is just something that's short-term, which doesn't give them any security just some seasonal job and something where they get the impression that they're a one-time-use product, and that's why we have a problem, because of the systematic humiliation of the workers in the sense that you take it when you need it, when you don't need it, you throw it, you throw it, you't, you put it on, and of course that worker won't come and you't come to give him 50 thousand kuna anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113162	Thank you, thank you very much, colleague. Here's the next individual debate, colleague Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113163	Thank you, dear Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. From these discussions and introductory explanations of the State Secretary himself, we have received some information about vocational education at our high school level and something that we have believed all here in error for a number of years, which is that there are more high school programmes and that there are more students in high school programmes than in vocational programmes and here we see that at European level we still have more, more high school students and students themselves in vocational education and that is about 62% while the EU average is not 50%. In the very law and these amendments, i.e. In this final proposal, we also see in the second reading that many educational programmes are obsolete, in particular we think of these three-year-olds and here are colleagues before me who have spoken most of them are members of the Education Committee, and there we really often open the topic not only of high school programmes but also of study programmes, their inadequacies, why they are being founded. I believe that even when the Law of Higher Education comes and we're going to talk a little bit about university autonomy and ways that individual founders of certain normal and universities and colleges and also high schools, here we're talking about cities and counties, how they set up certain programs and how they adapt curriculaes and how they get credentials from ministries and from the agency itself. Often this is not harmonised, we often talk here about teachers and people who know how to be in certain smaller environments disabled and therefore we have some outdated programs because I simply believe that both schools and directors and founders may not even be brave to change something because they know that they will have problems with hiring new staff, they will have problems just and with, with the education of certain professors who may not be able to adapt at this time to new systems and the labour market itself. With all due respect to all my colleagues and quality discussions and what my colleague mentioned before me, we can agree on a lot of things and I agree with colleagues that in some segments and we are late, but I must mention here that it is never too late. We don't have to make fun of every reform, and then in a few years, when we realize that, that the government and the ministry did something good, then we tortured and we don't know what to say. I think we should welcome any reform openly, and when we look at only the segment of this law where the government's strategy is mentioned and this part I mean point 9 in the NGO itself, everything the government and the ministry have been doing about the education strategy, not only of higher education but we're talking about high school and vocational, not to mention scholarships that have even doubled in the last five years, exactly what we're talking about on boards and what we're talking about in these discussions is that we're a little out of the labour market itself, that we don't recognize, that we don't recognize what in a year, two, five, ten will be needed in our market. We understand that certain study programmes and certain students cannot be hired after their education because there is no need on the labour market in the Republic of Croatia and now that we have a bill that changes all that and that gives us tools now. It gives the state and the government the tools to analyse and repeat the i.e. I will note that this law did not come on its own and came on the basis of a large analysis and the basis of cooperation and talks with employers who saw and those on their part the shortcomings in our education system. So I think we have one quality proposal that we should definitely all support, which we should definitely give a chance to. We can talk about whether certain founders of the county, cities, certain schools will be able to adapt in new school years. I think it's a great task of the ministry because there will be additional funds and additional employment, but when we analyse how much benefits it will bring for our economy tomorrow and for the Republic of Croatia, I think it's immeasurable. We see that certain private educational institutions have managed to adapt to the market and every year, they change their programs, their curriculaes and simply adapt to the market. I think it's about time and it's a good time for the state to deal with it and the state to adapt to conditions and working conditions, but also market conditions. So here, no matter what your grudges, I believe you'll find something good in this law. and support him. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113164	Thank you, we have a few replicas. He's my first colleague, Luka Brcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113165	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, here I can testify 2-3 years ago with the recently mentioned Mr. Spray here visited all professional schools in the Split-Dalmatia County and this was also one of the analyses on which today's draft laws were built and there it was immediately visible that a great role was played in the already achieved projects on the contents within the workshops themselves for practice and within schools had been played by directors. Today these successful high schools are among other things the centres of competence. I can mention here our Naval School, which every year, so to speak, under the supposed signs, produces high-quality sailors, our Tourist and Food School, also a school that has 100 million kuna projects and that I don't keep counting, time's up, in every The case is interested in your consideration of the role of the director himself. [[Intruder: Your time is up, your time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113166	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113167	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleague Brcic, I'm sorry I've referred a little bit more to these few last discussions that were so I haven't kept the material that I prepared because I thought I'd mention a part of the law that applies to the centres of competence. You are well aware, you worked in Split-Dalmatia County as mayor on, on a large project, and this is our Tourist and Food School which I think is a bright example for all of Croatia and that this is a school that was professional 15 years ago on the blacklist and was enrolled by no one. We will not talk about who was signing up, who had no place to go, and today we have waiting lists and it is a school that produces the highest quality housing in the area of tourism and catering not only for the Split-Dalmatia County but for the whole of Croatia and has just finished this project together with the 10m-euro tourism ministry. But I agree with you. Here there will be a great emphasis on the directors to recognize, to adhere to legal provisions, to recognize the moment we live in, and I think a lot of work will be on them. I hope he does. They're gonna be ready for that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113168	My colleague Ljubica Maksimchuk is next to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113169	Thank you very much. An esteemed colleague of education is the cornerstone of informed economic development. The well-trained and knowledge-rich young man will be easily employed, independent and, most importantly, will be able to respond immediately after entering the labour market to the needs he puts before him. Investment in vocational education is an investment in economic recovery. How much this legislative proposal will accelerate to finally bring education and the labour market into line and to reduce this non-compliance that is currently on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113170	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113171	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Maximchuk. I think it's just that this bill of law that we're not going too far, that we're going quite concretely and all that we've read, that we've seen about all the provisions and what we've heard from the secretary of state is one regulation like this, one of these laws that it might take a little bit of a rough to say that we're shaking the market, that we're shaking both the founders and the high school but that we finally adapt to the labour markets. Here's a colleague of mine before we discussed something about forestry. I don't know. There's no forest school in the Gorski Kotar. In Lica, there is a direction in the professional forest technician, and here we are talking about the last two months of planting millions of trees a year, adapting to climate change, about the government's plan for CO2 reduction. The question is, are we adjusted and will we have enough workers in this particular sector?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113172	Thank you. A colleague, Marija Selak Rasdic, has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113173	Well, I wouldn't be very fond of the adjective, or the term that you used to make fun of here with the reform. We used to ask questions because we had reforms that concerned vocational education before. No one knows their epilogue. What I'm interested in here is all glorifying really harmonising with the labour market because it's what I've already said to the qualitative recommendations that change at the annual level, and education takes three years, how do you think it will meet the challenges of the labour market in view of the dynamics of its change?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113174	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113175	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Selak Rasdic. I don't remember using the expression to make fun of. I apologize if I did, I didn't mean it like that. You've all had constructive suggestions. I see a lot of things have been adopted between two readings and you're all colleagues from the Education Committee itself, so you definitely know what you're saying. And as for the very adjustment of the labour market itself, I think it's precisely the regulation that is necessary. You mentioned three-year-old schools as inadequate. I'll tell you in person since I'm a little bit in that school education for a long time. With a wave of cheap labour, we won't fight in Croatia. We see both the need itself and today the tourist season begins, we workers do not have and with relatively cheap labour and low qualifications we will not fight alongside a little more massive, larger countries. That's why we have to do quality vocational education and tomorrow and high school programs, high school programs, don't you think...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113176	Yes, thank you. The next replica is a colleague of Rade Simičević's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113177	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, my dear colleague. That we should certainly uphold this law. However, what I wanted to problem is to change trends in the labour market. And we certainly in the system of vocational education have some occupations that will not come to the labour market and will hardly achieve their professional goals. It seems to me that we should either at the agencies or the ministry actually have a particular team that will not tell you about it, but predict new occupations that will be attractive in five or more years. Because if we bring any interest today, it won't or won't be attractive in five years. So, as far as professions are concerned, we would have to refresh high school and give new opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113178	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113179	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, fellow Shimičević. I agree with you, and I can agree with my colleagues in the opposition when we say we're late, because something we may have talked about five or ten years ago is missing a strategy, we lack a development strategy where we see labour in five, ten years. I think that the market conditions are simple, the world has accelerated so much and this modernization is simply changing year after year and this time we have no longer had the opportunity to do any internal, large strategies that will cover the Republic of Croatia and where we see ourselves not knowing in 15 or 20 years. Here, the ministry will have to adapt every year as the Croatian Employment Institute, the State Statistics Institute works every year on quotas related to the necessary labour side and has given certain permits to employers related to the reciprocity that can be employed, who is not. That's how they're gonna have to work their schools now. They just have to adapt. There won't be any others.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113180	Thank you. Next replica of counterpart Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113181	Thank you. Dear colleague Bačić, here I will look back on something I have already mentioned in the replica of the proposer, which is the situation in Ličko-Senj County where we have 413 students of eight classes and just mathematically calculated 18 classrooms were approved in a way that the business secretary in Otočac and the hotel-tourism commercialist in Gospić were also abolished. And by removing directions, students will not go to other places in the county, because these directions are not in the county, and that there are them is impossible because of the poor interconnection within the county. Therefore, students will choose schooling in one of the other counties and thus further deepening such a bad demographic picture in the county. I think we from this place have to send a message to the ministry that other factors should be taken into account when making entry decisions especially in rare populated areas, not just mathematical calculations based on the number of students in the department. The number, population density, should be taken into account traffic connection and all other elements. [[Invadica Vidovic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113182	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113183	Thank you, Vice President. I would like to thank my colleague, Pocrnic Radošević. I agree with you that there should be no harsh analysis and statistics solely based on the report of the Employment Service or the State Statistics Office as much as we lack something and at any cost to introduce certain areas, normally each of our neighborhoods is specific in itself, there is a specific cultural one, why not even a culture of a given area includes both this analysis and that both Lika and Gospić knows what their triba is and in which direction they want to develop, but we are going back to this, even if it is desirable and it does not matter whether a student from Like goes to Zadar or Karlovac or somewhere in high school or tomorrow at the university, it is important that the Like area recognises i.e. that the state recognises what will be in the field of like and which worker will need to return to tomorrow that student and student and can easily find a job in Lica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113184	Thank you. Now colleague Sanja Radolovic will replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113185	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, although we can boast of the 70% share of students in vocational education regarding EU level, we must look the truth into the eyes and say that as regards the so-called training programme. a unique model of education, in the last 7 years. The number of students was halved. How do you comment on the fact that the bill taxively cites some measures that should resolve the gap between the state of labour market demand and the offer, and we are not at all concerned with the unique model of education in the legislative proposal itself, which provides for as much as 2,600 practical hours to continue both in the working process and in the education itself, and yet in the theory it is mentioned that the gap between supply and demand on the labour market will be resolved when it is evident that there are no clear measures in this legislative proposal and activities that would enable and return, it has returned to that training programme instead of the classical model of education.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113186	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113187	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my fellow Radolovic, I would not agree with you that, that this is exactly what you are saying about teaching that it is not in the legal proposal itself and in the very explanation. I think that a great emphasis is placed on entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs, not only on those who will be tailoring what they need at that moment on the market but rather on a particular curricula where they are about to learn about entrepreneurship, but I agree with you, in some previous times professionally, vocational education was not known for 5 days of practice, 4 days of practice, 1 day, 1 day theory, it has now changed a little, we see this statistics, and we see according to this research that employers agree with, and that, that they need qualifications that they expect from students not to get them, but this system of mentorship and the system of adaptation and the employers themselves and markets I think it will change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113188	Thank you. My colleague Vesna Bedeković has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113189	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, in your debate you have troubled the problem of quality of professional programs and you have well seen the problem of their obsolescence, and I would say the pre-experience of various professional programs to their dissipation, and in fact where we are pre-experienced means in 100 places one and the same programs to, to, cartoon, figuratively speaking, there are questionable qualities and we must be realistic and admit they are rarely carried out in a way to go through less resistance and to keep jobs, so what has its own, has its own justification. However, what I would like to put an emphasis on, and I believe that you will agree with me, is, however, working on the quality of the professional programmes through this legal framework, including through the provisions relating to the quality of the professional programmes and the provisions relating to regional competence centres. which are therefore more clearly defined for the first time by this proposal. [[Intruder: Time's up]] Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113190	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113191	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleagues Bedeković, and I agree with you and not only about the quality of the educational programs, but here is the introduction of a single monitoring that will be carried out for the mentorship project itself, which I think is very important in professional education, but what you mentioned, sometimes we keep certain programs purely for the sake of some kind of tradition, because of something that was famous. You come from Virovitica-Podravska County, when we count how many families were then engaged in paprika, tobacco and production of benches where each school in the Republic had a bench from Gaje, and now it's completely different, how much, as the market has now changed, how much there is now and the works and viticulture and tourism and completely some other cultures we have to simply adapt. Like your county, as the founder of your high school in Split-Dalmatia which is as different as perhaps 15 or 20 years ago, and maybe some three-year programs we have the same and we haven't moved at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113192	Thank you. My colleague Sabine Glass has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113193	Comrade Bačić, we were not negatively obvious about this law, but we expressed our grief and disappointment. First because some of the things that are just planned to be implemented by this law are already defined by some documents that should have been implemented by 2020, because it is going too slowly, which is going too late, and what is now not answering the question in which we are going to coordinate the needs of our society, I will not say the world of work, the needs of our society with what we can as a state and as responsible, you as a responsible authority offer, in which way we will not clearly be able to provide recommendations to the HZZ, that but then that is to say compliance with the current needs, whether someone is thinking about compliance with future needs, about what is waiting for us, means those are questions in which we do not get an answer, in which way we will popularise vocational education. How would you convince a boy? there in Split-Dalmatia County [[Intruder: Thank you]] to take an interest in the butcher's profession, how? [[/Intruder: Not at all.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113194	It's hard, it's... Please respond. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113195	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Glasovac, he should not be difficult to persuade, I mean the butcher in Split-Dalmatia County now you can't find a kilometer when the tourist season is going very well this double price is. But I would refer to your replica, I agree, I agree with you that in some things it goes slowly, but that is why you should support this bill, so you see only the strategy of the government of the Republic of Croatia, you see the NPOO, I would like to maybe even you and I to discuss less about this and to support this, and that you and I are fighting for all the contests that will go to summer and use the funds and that you build a professional school on your initiative in Zadar County, me in Split-Dalmatia. I think the ministry is crying out for such an engagement, both of you and I, and as far as the debate itself is concerned, I believe that you will ultimately support this final bill no matter what your suggestion is normally welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113196	Here's a colleague of the Voice who thinks the Rules of Procedure have been hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113197	Not to think, but I'm sure my colleague Bacic hurt his common sense. He insulted me specifically in this case. He tells me about the MPO. A good colleague of Bačić, but we have a strategy of education, science and technology since 2014 brought by this Croatian Parliament, which unfortunately your Government led the previous minister obstructed, obstructed. Second, operational programs are a year and a half late. Let's let the MPO side. Let's take the budget period regularly, where are the operational programmes? On what basis will we draw money from the EU? [[Invadica Vidovic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113198	I know you're offended and offended and healthy, but I didn't see in the Rules of Procedure that it, that some articles were regulated, and then you must get a warning. ... No, it's not a third. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Now it's time for a colleague, Maria Selak Rasdic. Oh, no, I'm sorry, and Ante Bacic has a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113199	Thank you, Vice President. I was just about to warn you that a colleague at all, I was looking for myself at the Rules of Procedure now that I didn't find an article about common sense. I guess I don't know it in 239 if you often call on 238. There's money, we just need to use it. It wasn't an insult to you. Don't take it by any chance. The strategies are there to change. What we've been saying all along, something by 2020 has now been an outdated technology, we're moving on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113200	Thanks a lot, buddy. You could have told that to your colleague outside this debate, and not according to the Rules of Procedure, which is why you get a warning too. And colleague Marija Selak Rasdic has an individual discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113201	When someone has previously concluded that money has only to be used at the moment of such inflation and the disintegration of the entire European economy, the result is that the Croatian man comes only to yellow and thus concludes the debate because it might be more effective than relying on vocational education. Yes, if we're going to talk about some money that we're going to withdraw potentially from the EU, which is why we're rushing through different reforms and reforming higher education through the new law, then we're saying it's a prerequisite for withdrawing money, rather than for quality reform to result in money withdrawal, so we're blackmailing the Parliament to actually accept whatever legislative changes should be taken into account next. The last time we pulled big money out of Europe to improve our education, it came to our conclusion that we let's say that we got the money temporarily, and then there was what was called a nice euphemism correction, and that the correction ended up being paid out of our own pocket for a reform that we had badly spent because we did not carry out various competitions, staffing and everything else that was necessary according to European criteria within the projects. So I wouldn't just be careful about the fact or trying to figure out that there is money because in most places there are no money in the Republic of Croatia, especially where money is needed, but whether we're ever going to pull it back, and if we pull it out, we're going to eventually make it happen, or keep it, or it's going to cost us all together. Since there is always the possibility that we may suffer from this reform, and even if it is not very important to be careful that it is made quality, and I will also refer later to this particular matter of spending money previously, because it is closely related to the professional education that can be done as such, given that there are also concrete salaries, the determinations of professions and everything else now we have, for example, vouchers that have entered the market, and we have discussed the reform and the way that vouchers for adult education will be given, so we will see what malversions are possible, given that money and money use in the education system are directly in the everyday environment because students have their own practices. So, I'm going to go back to what's bothering me and about how we're really going to educate our professional staff. Teachers of general education courses in vocational schools should be guided through the Education and Education Agency, which, in fact, de facto raised its hands and left the direction of the reform to the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults. And where's the problem? 120 new curiculas are written and there is no telling what will be in them with general educational content. I can only wonder here if there will be a partial or complete devastation. If that happens, and we already have some curricula that mention changes, lack of general educational content to solve the problem of so-called. technological surpluses and according to what criteria? What's going to happen to all those teachers working inside that system? Reform is needed and we all agreed on this, but the question is how will the reform be understood and implemented by teachers of the profession who are just learning what the outcomes are. Experts have been forced here and as the creators of the general educational part, means not the professional, but the general educational part. When I say general education, I mean history, geography, etc. to make it clear to the benefit of your captainship and the division of the class into groups. Under the cover of reform, history and geography cannot be abolished in all secondary schools, leave only Croatian, English, mathematics and religious science, because then the issue of what kind of personnel we do and for whom we really produce and by what criteria and who has the right to determine what it is necessary is not necessary for education. I'll remind you once again these are children who have their rights, not just some current or future workforce for whatever market. And these children, some of them, fortunately, might want to change their minds further, and they will be prevented from mentioning that they will not be able to participate in social processes in a quality way because of their educational deficits. And this is not just a question of Croatia. See what Germany and other countries are doing? No one has thrown such items out of their vocational education, and it comes to his mind. I would like to remind you that if we don't respond in time that what happened to us for the first time was with dual programs in which Minister Divjak willingly, perhaps in the morning after the first coffee, deleted the history and geography classes in the directions of the seller, the hairdresser, the smoker and the smoker and the one miserable year they had.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113202	Comrade, time's up, so try to continue through the replicas. You now have a colleague, Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113203	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Rasudiæ, I agree with you only in this first sentence that you should have concluded the debate when you mentioned me and inflation. I don't know if you're tracking how much we've secured the funds... Are you following how much the ministry is going to build high school in the next period, is that something bad? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And speaking of inflation, in which segment of your life is bad for you because of that inflation, is perhaps the ministry has taken something high education, is the salary from where you come from, is the professor's salary at the university something fell, I don't understand it, that you feel that it's been treated in higher education, that you feel that inflation, when you're already respecting it, and that there's something problem in this envelope, you won't take advantage of it, so it's up to us to use it because of what, so I've been a little bit of a cartoon and I've appealed to my colleague and your county to get another of this new high school. Where does that inflation in higher education touch you, I don't mean generally in your home budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113204	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113205	So, unlike you, I know we have over two billion kunas to use for vocational education, I'm not sure if you, do you handle specific numbers, and I can't believe that you just asked me how inflation touches me, so are you, excuse me, but in your common sense? So do you know what the situation is in the Republic of Croatia right now, do you know that this is not my question at all? You may be living on a tower of white hair where the problems of Croatian societies are exclusively seen through your own pocket and you are looking at what you have a parliamentary salary and you don't care if the bread, milk bi-digit inflation is currently on the general needs of life, I don't even know if you know that statistics and whether you care how much it is for an average Croatian citizen and whether it can survive. I'm not here to talk about how much I need but to represent the citizens that this inflation is really touching, and it touches us all. I can't believe it's a laugh for you, asking inflation issues right now in this social political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113206	Thank you very much, thank you, don't, don't get upset too much. My colleague, Bacic, is at risk of hurting the Rules of Procedure. That would be a second time now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113207	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113208	...I suppose he thinks it's an inappropriate word...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113209	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113210	...saying that a colleague's question is whether he's in his right mind...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113211	Sure, sure, but I'll make sure it does.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113212	...and it's not, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113213	Thank you, Vice President. In 238, you should have warned your colleague that it was insulting to me, shaking and swearing with a healthy mind, I don't know what. The other thing, I asked you, do we have any different salaries, don't I? So me, are we talking about education here or are we talking about milk, when we talk about milk we're going to talk about inflation, economic indicators, budgets, etc., I'm asking you in your higher education what you're talking about, did you get paid, do you maybe not have enough toners in your office in philosophical or don't know where you teach? So we're not talking about milk here, we could talk about milk rebalancing and oil and everything that's... What do you think I live in a golden villa? I don't know. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113214	Comrade Bačić, don't be a colleague of Bacic's anymore... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113215	You have a salary better than me along with the whole family, she tells me the story I pay, I don't get it, she drives a good car... And you're talking about crying. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113216	Comrade Bačić, you get a warning, you get a warning because you have to pass...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113217	A bench incursion is not understood/
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113218	I didn't even give you a warning because of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, but I did because you don't respect the weather or the way it should be, so you have another warning. We have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Members Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113219	Art. 238, I can't believe I have to say obvious things like this, my colleague Bačić came to us inflation in a way that our salary has fallen since we've all grown in cost of life, as you don't understand that basic fact of life. But for the fact that they have grown up to me, I am not here to represent myself again, but Croatian citizens who are in big trouble, their education has become more unreachable because of the costs they require have grown to them all other life costs that they must meet in order to access higher education at all. Who's gonna pay for their apartment? Do you know how much it costs?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113220	Time's up, and it's time to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and there was no, let's just say you could use this in one of the replicas. Here's Sabine the Voice has a replica, colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113221	E co-worker Rasudiæ, I don't know how you don't know how it's clear that the HDZs explain to you that there is money, so of course there is, there is 25 billion boasted the prime minister, but we don't know how to take it, we see earthquake-affected areas for a year and a half of the day, and there are no houses restored, and there are money waiting, but there is no will and no ability. Also, for these operational programmes, there are no effective human potentials, no competitiveness or cohesion that could already be financed in the good part of what many of this predicts amongst others, and this Law on Professional Education, but I don't wonder at all, I don't know if you noticed here that they're doing again as Antuntunton all upside down. The impact assessment of the regulations didn't go before the bill itself, they go to the store first, then they come home, so they make a list of what they were supposed to buy, all wrong. It is also wrong that after the adoption and adoption of this law, because they have a majority, we need to bring in six more regulations within a year to even begin implementing this law. That's what...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113222	Thank you very much. Replication response. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113223	I understand you colleagues, that I think I'm still recovering from, from the shock of being asked where I see inflation, and why I even think it's problematic, and in what way it's connected to a system of higher education that lives somewhere outside of this world and with my students who won't be able to come to other cities at all, or where they should, because I can't afford the basic costs of living that are a prerequisite for access to higher education, not to mention everything else they need during their studies. And as far as this is concerned, I fully agree with you, right now and we've been following it all year round, changing a large number of laws relating to the education system and the only argument for it, and many steps we've skipped, is that we're just going to be able to withdraw funds without it, and then under that blackmail, we can be forced to accept any legal changes, regardless of what can eventually happen again, that we pay the penalty ourselves, and with such laws and similar proposals, I'm afraid that's the only possible epilogue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113224	Time's up for your debate, thank you very much. colleague Sanja Radolović, individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113225	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, yes, we have mentioned today several times what are the two biggest problems of this legislative proposal, and that is not to solve the key problem. First, the gap between the offer of qualified workers and their demand on the labour market and, of course, the second thing that is the biggest concern of employers, which is that students come out with a high lack of practical skills on the labour market. Of course, there should be thought and not only of those students who want to enter the labour market immediately but also of which part of them want to enter the higher education area, and therefore we welcome this legislative proposal because as much as possible, let's say some vertical and horizontal mobility. However, what I have most regrets about in this legislative proposal, let us take the lead. This is the first thing that will be adopted to report the need in fact and plan according to the HZZ recommendations, and we know well that the entire private and real sector does not foresee the reporting of labour needs to the HZZ and in fact there has been no deep analysis that is the real needs of the private sector but we can say we will actually only have the state that needs the public sector. And we all know ourselves that it's not the public sector that deals with manufacturing, which deals with factories, and that these students don't go to the public sector in, to education, to teaching, to practical teaching, but to go to craftsmen and entrepreneurs. It is this unique model of education that I mentioned before and through replications, which is actually a system in which the number of students in the last seven years has been halved, and it has been unlike that of a classic model and even a dual model of education in vocational education, the only one that has defined in detail the tasks, obligations, responsibilities, goals and all of these, and has particularly connected schools with economic operators and the labour market. Of course, all these students went more or less to learn in small craftsmen. And that's where we come up with the main problem. This bill partially defines and solves the problems of mutual relations between students and craftsmen where they will go to teaching, but the truth is that we've overstretched them. I really don't know who you are, which little craftsmen will be able to accept in this way students in practical teaching because let's be realistic doesn't apply more or less this practical teaching to large employers. These students go more or less to small craftsmen, and they do not have the necessary educational ability to work with students and do not have the will to say for such administrative burden, to do paperwork and bureaucracy. This bill only tightens the conditions that these small craftsmen must meet, and it is forgotten that one of the biggest problems is their lack. What we are asking is that, with the obligation required to introduce a legal obligation for schools, founders and resolute ministry of planning the enrolment of students in professional programmes in accordance with the HZZ recommendations, one deep analysis of the labour market and the county itself is made because we do not see the sense of going into such a legal obligation unless some depth analysis is made towards the counties. And of course he sits with private sector representatives because it is their goodwill whether or not he will show the needs of the HZZ. Also, what has to be said is not only about the resolution ministry, the quota issue. They're not enough, they're not enough and they're too small. As long as we take into account the cancellation of the 1,500 kuna scholarships, we come to a real problem and the withdrawal of the parallel that we will not only halve the number of students in the training programmes, or the JMO model, but we will halve the number of students covered by vocational education. But what I wanted to say about the county itself. I've been approached by several school principals who say that it's not just a problem in the resolution ministry, but that they're coming, and they're also having problems with their founders who are correcting their quotas before they go to a compliance with the resolution ministry, and I think that's just resort. The ministry has to coordinate so things don't happen. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113226	Thank you, stay still we have, you have several replicas. Comrade Emil Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113227	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, I am interested in your opinion of measure 2 2 investment in education, science and research shall be provided with support for funding for deficits, but in particular for the participants of the vocational education system in less developed areas, regions of the Republic of Croatia. So I was also interested in, before I had a proposal that instead of the less developed regions and the environment of the legislator, I should have prescribed that the emphasis should be on the students of the weaker property, because this discrimination in the Republic of Croatia that some region or environment, municipalities, a city that is more developed must suffer because I think it is not right when children are concerned, so I am interested in your opinion on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113228	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113229	Well, of course, colleague Daus isn't right, right or fair. I'm familiar with the whole problem, but you saw it wouldn't be the only case. We are witnessing that the Istrian County and the increasingly developed regions will not be able to report to virtually any competition especially for education from the NPO. I guess the only thing left to do is to hire the bots as well and to click the fastest finger on the new Minister Filipovic's competition, so I guess we'll have better luck than brains.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113230	Thank you. Next replica, Andreja Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113231	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I think we all agreed that there is definitely a imbalance between the number of students who end up studying particularly deficiting professions and what the market and our economy really needs. And I think it's very important if not really a crucial collaboration between the ministries, between craft chambers, counties, vocational schools to bring quality programmes and plans for particularly deficiting professions. You mentioned scholarships, the law also lists scholarships in which they can actually be achieved, and that's why it's actually a little bit sad when you read the headlines that have dried up scholarships from EU funds that were supposed to be for deficiting occupations this year, that was 1,800 kuna, but then again you come across some good examples where the county and county crafts chamber, for example, from the Varazdin County They're working with the ministries and they're still pulling some money. [[Thanks, time's up.]] What's your comment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113232	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113233	Thank you. Yes, I was talking about abolishing scholarships and not only that, it should even be said that the existing law that is in force regarding vocational education clearly and decadently foresees giving some fee or reward to a student who is on a practical course or teaching program. It's very complicated here. So the student himself and the founder himself, but also the employer himself, who are more or less all small craftsmen. And a comment on drying out money for EU grant funds cannot possibly be accepted. Especially with the prime minister constantly boasting of the new 24 billion euros. There's only money that we're not able to withdraw because we haven't even called the competition as foreseen by the National Resistance and Recovery Plan, and I'm not talking about operational programmes that we haven't even given this to counseling. I guess by 2027, when the period is up, we'll adopt them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113234	Thank you. My colleague Katarina Nemet has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113235	Thank you. Fellow Radolović, in addition to your discussion and the first step you mentioned, I would ask you to comment here on the situation of the Eugen Kumičić Professional School in Rovinj, which is for this '21. And '22. asked for 2 combined classes, and this auto-mechanical and plumber, and an electro-installer and an electro-mechanist. The ministry has been denied an explanation that the number of class departments must not be increased by modelling the past school year.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113236	Thank you. Answer me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113237	I thank you for being contacted by those involved and for the interest of a graphic technician. What is saddening is that they actually have an Istragraphics company but the need and demand for such a type of worker and that they are not allowed to enter a class section for a graphic technician with these other occupations. And that's where we actually come back to the balling of the county and the balling of the rest of the ministry. I have to say, as an opposition representative, I really don't care who's in power at the state level in the ministry, or in the county, but I'm interested in dealing with this problem. And it can't happen that the principals then desperately write to the county, write to the ministry a little bit and tell them in the county you can't because the ministry won't allow it, and the ministry says we can't let you because you simply can't cross that quota of class departments and the number of students by the county. I think that it must be systematically resolved and that such deficitary occupations should certainly be approved.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113238	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113239	Dear MPs, this lack of deep analysis is a big problem. For some things, however, only superficial analyses have been made. Examples of regional competence centres. If an analysis of the needs for individual counties were made then we would not have had in Zadar RCK for engineering we probably wouldn't have in Sisak-Moslavina County electronics and computing but it would have been a little bit differently distributed, according to the needs that are really present at the moment and which will be in the future. However, there is no communication with entrepreneurs, there is no communication with craftsmen, there is no communication, there is no list of their wishes and need for the future, and there is no direction towards their development. And that's where the problems come in. We'll still have a problem, we'll spend the money, and the effects will be zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113240	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113241	I appreciate the question. My colleague Pavić, I must first say that I am in principle in favour of this whole project and the programme of building regional competence centres. Especially in Istria County, let's say we build a centre of competence of tourism and hospitality, and there is a whole range of companies from both tourism and catering. I think it's an example of good practice. However, I think that in the good part of the beautiful part of ours it was shared exclusively on the political key, and the fact is that there are only 14 months left for the use of funds, and that a good part of the competence centre is not really any shovel stuck and I just want to know how it will be built and equipped until the end because we all know that 31.12.'23. points out that deadline and there is no extension or further approval from the European Commission. And I think we should all be sorry that the ministry was so late to drop those funds and make calls.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113242	Thank you, colleague. Next up for discussion is colleague Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113243	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so here's how much time I'm allowed in these five minutes I'm going to try to take a brief look at it and maybe in some ways point to just some of the parts of this bill that I think are extremely important. And I will remind you that as far as Croatia is concerned in the EU, we have one of the highest proportions of secondary school students in Europe and it is almost 70%. And I think that it is precisely in that part of the system that special attention should be paid to ensure that the entire system is further strengthened and improved. And through the debate it was seen not only now but also in the first reading that the system of vocational education is very complex with numerous problems and we cannot say that there is no problem. There are problems, but this does not mean that problems should not be solved and that there is no systematic approach to solving this problem, and I therefore think that this Final Proposal is actually a legislative basis for reform processes. We can say that reform processes go slowly, that they go at a moderate rate, that they don't go at all, but we can't say that nothing happens. Much is happening in the system of vocational education. What happens is that we have a lot of work and a lot of work to do and a lot of things to change, and you know that, together we know very well that every change is going hard, to go through a lot of trouble, but if there is a common consensus and a common agreement that changes are needed, then the change is going on and in that sense, so this legislative proposal as a basis for reform processes in vocational education, what I think is most important, that it will include, first of all, all the stakeholders of the system, means both students and teachers and employers and school founders and all the other competent partners in this system, and what is really the ultimate goal of this reform and what should be in some place, therefore, in focus, that is therefore training of our students, so young people for learning through work and in the working environment encourage them to think and successfully solve their work tasks, and on this basis, we can give them key comply, and we can't be able to talk about, and we can't be able to talk about the whole market about what we can't be able to talk about, and what we can't be able to talk about what we can't we can't be able to talk about what we't we can't be able to talk about what we can't we can't we can't we't we't we't we't we't we't and we't we't we't do't't't do't't't't't't't't't't't't't do't't't't't't't't't't't't't't't't't't't't't't't't tell't do't do', but't't't'''''t't't', but't''''''t't't't't', we', we', but'', but', we', we', we', we''''''', we', we', we', we't', we', we', we', we''''''' We are talking about adapting the labour market after students leave the system of vocational education, adapting the labour market is waiting for them from the moment they start working in the system until the end of the working life because the changes are very fast and very fast and we can't stop them. What is crucial.../incomprehensible/... key in this Law, I would only briefly list what I consider to be important, so the legislative framework for learning based on work, what is further important, so planning entry into vocational programmes in line with the needs of the labour market, what is further important, clear definition of the scholarship system and what I think is crucial, therefore improving the quality assurance system in vocational education. The only system of quality and quality programmes in the professional programme will, not quickly and not immediately, but in the long term, help solve the problem and modernise the professional curricula and give the right place to regional centres of competence and in some way, rounding up professional programs that do not happen to us in different schools, in different places of the Republic of Croatia we have professional programs that are equal and in the same way all of us are outdated, inefficient and still with reduced number of students. So, regional competence centres are actually going towards setting up a network of professional programs in a way that we work on their quality and provide quality learning opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113244	Thank you. We have several replicas, first colleague Irena Simunic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113245	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleague. As always, the intention of the law is good, but implementation is often questionable. Based on what we've been able to look at so far, it's something that raises suspicion, and in addition to that, they say frequent practices that are signed, which are formal, existing, and they're not actually in quality realization. Such a situation is inadmissible because the person leaving the education system should be trained to perform on the labour market, must have those skills that the employer requires because it is in the interests of the employer and the student, or the future worker, and ultimately the economy as a whole. The proposed legal framework.../incomprehensible/... prescribes the possibility of professional supervision of the performance of this work-based learning by the employer or the practice of the employer. Do you feel that this legal provision will affect the resolution of this, unfortunately, problem in professional education and training, and do you see its final resolution, in what way? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113246	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113247	Thank you very much. I'll answer you very briefly. So the law clearly defines, even now in the final, final, final version of the bill very, very clearly defined all the provisions relating to supervision. A very short answer, I think it will help a lot in practice and improve the system. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113248	Thank you very much. Next replica, counterpart Ankica Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113249	Thank you, Vice President, colleague Bedekovic. Over the years, we've trained children for occupations that are no longer very attractive. We're missing masters, from roof covers, limes, ceramics, plumbers, etc., and these are interests that contribute to the cause. This Law will certainly make a major step towards vocational education, and it is for the new programmes that great assistance and support from EU funds is provided using the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. Can you comment on that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113250	Thank you. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113251	Thank you very much. Thank you, dear colleague Zmaić, for this, for this replica of yours, of course, I also said in my debate in the opening on behalf of our Club of Representatives of the HDZ, later I reiterated it, so this Law is, indeed, a legislative basis for implementing the reforms that are envisaged, above all, by the Government's '22s programme. until 2020-2024 and foreseen by the National Recovery and Resistance Plan of '21 until 2026, on the basis of which we will use, therefore, EU funds. And the fact is and I really do need to further point out that today we lack quality master roofers, locksmiths, all of what you've listed, and we all have to ask ourselves how and how, therefore, to ensure quality education that will bring the masters of such a profile back to the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113252	Thank you. A colleague of Luke Brcic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113253	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. Here we are today, as in our first reading, talking about young people, I would say what are still in the formative age, and it is certainly important to train them for the labour market, and that is our fundamental purpose and this law. But surely in this sensitive formative way as I said, it's important that they have some other knowledge, so I think, unlike some, we could hear that we only devote ourselves to practice. I think it's important to find one harmony between the general educational and educational subjects and the very preparation for their future calling because they chose this in the fourteenth and fifteenth years the question of how far they themselves had enough insight into the knowledge and interest they would work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113254	Thank you. Here's my colleague, Bedeković.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113255	Thank you very much. You actually have a very important topic to talk about, so it's hard to answer, here's your incentive in one minute. But I'll just say you said it well. So children are at age 15 when they enroll, so high school in a very sensitive period of development, so formative age, and very, very good at making curricula, we need to measure how much to dose, and I am absolutely not accessing professional programs to be left without general educational content. Of course, professional programs are those programs for which a large part of Croatian students are still traditionally assigned, and that is great, so but other than the knowledge of their trade, so to say by means of learning based on work, certainly the other part of the education must be in the field of general education programs, because we must enable our students to develop a whole personality.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113256	Thank you. My colleague Katarina Peovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113257	Thank you. My colleague Bedekovic, you said there was no roof cover. Do you think they're missing because there's a high-quality high-school roof program missing or because nobody wants to do it on that famous labour market because we have a low labour price, because people do it if they do it abroad? So what I'm trying to suggest in my discussions is that it's not just a matter of harmonising this famous labour market with the education system, but that we just review the labour market and see where the causes and reasons why our economy is lagging behind, why don't we have a highly qualified workforce that stays in Croatia? In that sense, I would like this proposal to recognise it, not that perhaps as more on the side, and even liberals, we keep repeating the famous labour market and we need to adapt to the famous labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113258	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113259	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Well, I would agree with you if that were a very complex question. Do I assume that when we talk about roof covers that we speak symbolically, so if we don't have a roof cover because we have bad, outdated programs, because we have a reduced student registration, an interest in enrolling students in these programs, or we have a reduced number of covers because they are poorly paid on the labour market. It's a very complex problem. So there needs to be a very, very detailed analysis and it's not just about the Law on Professional Education. This is a matter for you of a whole set of other laws that are borderline to touch, so areas of general work in the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Parliament is not a body to deal with market analysis, labour markets or any other market. The Croatian Parliament is a legislative body, but certainly this problem should be discussed. I continue to believe that this proposal is a good legislative framework to regulate quality and improve vocational education and thank you for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113260	Thank you very much. You can thank your colleagues for Šimičević on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113261	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues, here's why we're passing this law. So we're probably bringing in because we have a discrepancy of offers and demand, or qualifications from the world of work. And we must do everything to gain the knowledge needed to satisfy the world of work, or we must plan future callings, professions, skills, and abilities that will be competitive. Today, however, we have over 300 or 400, and I don't know exactly what the market needs are right now. And I think this law is necessary, it's necessary, and maybe we could have brought it in before to make really order in the system of vocational education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113262	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113263	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Now we're here now you've given the incentive to enter an area called the Croatian Qualifications Framework and to refer very briefly to what is the link between the qualification framework and this law. In fact, this law foresees, among other things, the mandatory connection between professional curricula and the Croatian qualification framework through the standard of interest, through the standard of interest, of course as a key element of the link between curricula and the needs of the labour market. And what is important to point out is that this law regulates how I would say it regulates the way in which professional programmes are deployed into sectors. This is very important, again in line with the relevant interest based on the national classification of professions and in this way when we realize how important it is then we will reduce the number of these accumulated programmes ineffective.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113264	Thank you. My colleague Maja Grba Bujević has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113265	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, when an analysis of employers' views was carried out, only 1/3 of employers were satisfied with the level of competence to carry out a particular job. Will the introduction of a mentor, but with an employer, not a school mentor, will that change anything about attitudes? It seems to me that it's a good step and that's exactly the way to go, but since you from that profession are interested in your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113266	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113267	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much. Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very Yes, the introduction of mentors to employers is very important because it is a person who directly works with a student who comes from a professional program to gain competence in practice, so why is a mentor important? The mentor can't be anyone, that's where we want to focus the mentor's personality on the student in a way that through the mentor's guidance the student acquires all possible knowledge, skills, and then at the end of the competence needed for the future job and what's good in these provisions of the law is prescribed what all mentors must go through in order to work with students, so what kind of training, so I'd say he gets that doactive methodical package so that the student can be trained to be quality in his workplace, and then the employer who receives him in his future workplace through time to be more content. [[Intruder: I thank you]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113268	Thank you. Here's a colleague of Nikola Mazhar's. Here's a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113269	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, today we are discussing the adoption of this final bill and the importance of vocational education. By respecting and supporting all that we are going to improve this bill, I would unfortunately say that we have deficiting professions on the one hand that are highly employable, and on the other hand we have a lack of these personnel on the labour market, and I certainly believe that there is also a key in the popularization of professional professions. It is commendable that the Resort Ministry of Science and Education also calls for funding programmes that work on the popularisation of professional skills, and also here is the state competition held by “Worldskills Croatia” which brought together 450 of the best students of vocational schools, and in the presentation of 40 different skills, and thus became the biggest professional competition in this part of Europe, so I certainly think it would be good to continue in this direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113270	Thank you. Please respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113271	Thank you, colleague, for this replica, so to remind you of how important promotion is and how important it is to motivate primary school children to be completed for the enrollment of professional programs. I said in my debate that one part of Croatian students is traditionally committed to enrolling professional programs, however, in order to continue to promote professional programs in a way that gives students, future students, and parents, information on how important it is, how valuable it is, and how important it is to ensure future existence. We all know how expensive we are today to pay for a master who has a nice tile, one I don't know now that I'm not counting the roof coverings for what her colleague said isn't on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113272	There's no more time to list, but you can continue when colleague Nadica Dreven Buddinski... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113273	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, here it is. 41st, the objectives of vocational education are to enable students to acquire basic and professional competences to obtain qualifications needed for the labour market, for further education, lifelong learning and in the function of personal development, and for the economic and general development of society, and so that I do not read it now. So it's all detected, the law is good, and I think because it detected the problems that we have in vocational education, the labour market, so we've opened up business zones, we call economics. Here I come from the Varazdin County where we can say that there was really a really systematic concern when business zones were opening up and talking to the Employment Service, with our vocational education schools, and in some way today and today when new investors all first to ask what kind of staff you have in your vocational education, I think it should be some kind of foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113274	Thank you. You can respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113275	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, this law has clearly recognized problems in vocational education and recognised the suggestions of ways in which they can be solved, of course the law is the basis, specifically the law is being implemented, I will say figuratively, in the operation, so in practice. When you look at and compare this legal solution, this with the first Law on Professional Education and Education of Adults adopted in 2009. which has been changed three times afterwards, so 3 times has been novelized, this is the fourth change, when you compare this, then you will see how much this proposal, this amendment and the addition of the law brings new news from the initial state, compared to every novelty, so behind that, and how much news it actually brings recognized in direct practice and offers a possible legal basis for a solution, and especially for reform processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113276	Thank you. My colleague Ljubica Maksimchuk has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113277	Thank you. No government has so far taken seriously the problem of vocational education. [[Intruder: Microphone]] [[Last-on speaker]] It was all about the consequences and the fact that students of our vocational schools come out unprepared as the latest research says. The proposal for this law should remove all these shortcomings and effectively link the education system and the labour market. The Republic of Croatia, as well as the EU, are crying out for educational staff ready to join the labour market immediately after school. In addition to this legislative proposal, the quality of the study programmes and many other factors are important. On several occasions today, the name of one of the principals in my county was mentioned, Mr. Spray, who made an unwanted school very desirable. We still have this director of crafts-technical school, medical schools that really have reached one of those levels where students are trying to get this to enter and how important it is here, how important the role of director is with all of this. [[Thank you, thank you, colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113278	We know we have a lot of good principals. Answer the line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113279	Thank you very much. Although, there are, uh, great examples. That's why it's good that you said this. There are, we have great examples, excellent vocational schools in Croatia. So our problem is that everything we're very prone to defetism and tend to criticism. I mean, I'll say, I set an example of my school in my Pitomachi where I live. We have a great high school, where we built our high school in our municipality with our own resources and resources without a single kuna from the Ministry of Science and Education. And that was at the time of the government when the salaries were cut by educators, teachers, teachers and professors, some fell by as much as 1,000 to 1,500 kuna, when the Christmases were abolished, when the regresses were lifted, when the head was remembered, almost 30 directors who by the way later all got litigation So it's the easiest thing to criticise. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113280	Thank you, that's right, I'll mention in Sisak a great technical school, so here's before my colleague Majda Buric replicates, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113281	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Bedekovic, I think we will all agree that it is really necessary and further popularization of professional professions not only from the level of resolution ministries and related ministries but also completely the whole society, so in that sense I think that a very, very good job has done Masterchef's show We also remember that great commercial promotion of professional professions that, behind which, spent by the Ministry of Economy by hand, I think it was called getting to know the profession and living by your own hands. [[- That's great.]] These were great campaigns and shows, etc. and I think that we should continue to try to popularise professional professions to make a lot of difference. And what I really want to ask you at this time, because we have heard from the opposition a lot of ignorance and indignation about the withdrawal of European funds, I am asking you to actually say something more about 7.5 billion which are secured through the NPO precisely for the education sector which is never again for the construction of new schools, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] new kindergartens, green transitions etc. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Buric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113282	No more, now here's my colleague's answer, Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113283	Thank you very much. Yeah, well, I'd say it's too crazy and it's too negative. I don't know why, but I'd say you don't know or want to see what's going on and what's really going on right now. So, I will emphasize and repeat, thank you for mentioning this instead of reduced salaries, instead of abolished Christmases, instead of abolished regresses, instead of cutting heads off directors not only professional but also other schools, instead of falling credit ratings to the garbage level this government, as you yourself said, invests millions and millions of euros amongst other things and in a system of education and education, and at all levels. So from, we didn't say kindergartens, you didn't mention I'll mention them, billions of kunas, millions and billions of kunas in kindergartens, later on at primary schools for All-day teaching, vocational, higher education, etc. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113284	Thank you... It's all right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Erik Fabianić, here you are, an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113285	Dear Vice President, respected colleagues and colleagues, therefore, the issue of vocational education as well as general secondary education is a universal issue because it is about our children and our grandchildren that they will be educated and which future they will choose. We are here talking about amendments to the Law on Professional Education in order to make it easier to adapt the market. That you ask that question to university professors or academic community whether our universities are adapted to the market then they'll look up and tell you so we're not here because of the market we're here for science. So we can have and this might be a little bit better regulation than what we have right now, but that's not going to solve it for us. It will not solve the problem for reasons that professionally, certain professions are deficited in Croatia. The deficits are primarily because they're underpaid. And the moment we train someone professionally and deficitously and scholarship him, unfortunately this one will get a profession with which he will then go abroad where he has more job security, where he has greater safety at work, where he has better working conditions and where he has greater social security on health and pension insurance. It's the law of the market. So we can solve this problem, and also these changes and additions and laws, but we haven't solved the problem, he's just going to be a better, better reason to, yes, improve the system of education, but the question for who, for whom we're going to educate. I will publicly thank Minister Fuchs here for his cooperation with the Primorje-Gorski County on many things, but as a positive example. So, some days ago, here I read in the paper, we decided to do one thing or another school that has the name shipbuilding we're going to rename, we're going to remove the shipbuilding. With the first school that we did it with about 10 years ago just because of the shipbuilding record, we have had the registration of children from 117 today, so for the past year there were over 200 in professional and craftsmanship, but we need to monitor where these children will end up afterwards. And here I am also going to publicly thank Minister Fuchs for returning the Forest Department to Delnice after 30 years. And he needs to know who shut down that forest department 30 years ago, too. I also need to know a lot more when we talk about Gorski kotar, here I certainly didn't push him, maybe some others pushed him, but now whether HDZ was pushing him to give up on the middle school in Delnice wouldn't, I wouldn't, I wouldn't, I wouldn't, but I talked to the founder, so I know exactly who he was talking to, who he was talking to, but also at school in Delnice, I thank him too. Unfortunately, however, the problem remains. In the past, it is also related to the Gorski Kotar, therefore to the forest technician, so Croatian forests are also centralized, and because of this, they were opened in the Gorski Kotar of the sawmill, and they opened in the vicinity of Zagreb because we overcentralized the system, whether it was about the forests, whether it was about education, because the founders of cities and counties have one big problem. They have one big problem, I hope we can at least sort it out in this session. Namely, secondary schools are, the county founders, but they are not financed by the budget of counties of decentralised functions which are de facto therefore the county is only a courier by means. The founder may well be hearing about the needs of the market. The minister may also be hearing about the needs of the market, but we have another problem, and the problem is whether it will be financed afterwards. And it's not just about high school. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113286	Thank you very much, you have two replicas. My colleague Emil Daus is the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113287	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'll thank Minister Fuchs when he opens medical school in Pula, but I didn't want to ask you that. I'm interested in something else. Do you think that if a master craftsman or masters who are in his craft or company, and they have a long internship and have proven on the market how much the profession says I don't know 10, 15 years 20, do you need them to take a mentor's exam or not? Or it would be wiser to fit into the law if you could take a student on a practical course with those craftsmen and those masters who, in fact, deserve to be mentors for their long-standing internships because they proved themselves even on the market because they would not have failed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113288	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113289	I thank you, but I'm not professional enough to answer that. The fact is that a mentor must have other skills and abilities that are pedagogical, so that and whether it can be recognized through work experience or not really, it really cannot answer you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113290	Thank you. My colleague Majda Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113291	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Fabijanic, I am pleased in fact that you have publicly thanked Minister Fuchs for everything he has done for Gorski Kotar and Srednica High School because if it were for you and for the people who run the Primorje-Goran County, we would not actually have a new direction of forest technician at Delica High School, nor would we have preserved the direction of economists. Why am I saying that? Because we know what happened in the past while you were actually acting as a government at the state level. You have abolished the Law of the Mountains, turned it into a law that refers to picking berries. We've done so much damage to the mountain cotter area from the national level that it's not remembered. All this has been fixed since 2016, and here it really is. I'm not glorifying anyone, I'm just saying [[Thank you, colleagues.]] And only about the fact that it's a new law [[Thank you, colleagues.]] entered into force on 1.1.2019. [[Intruder: Time's up for my colleague.]] I apologize for breaking time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113292	It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. Here you go, buddy, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113293	So, when it comes to economic direction in the High School in Delnice, one thing to say is that there was a proposal to abolish it is certainly not thanks to the founder but rather to the ministry's proposal. The ministry changed their minds and that's fine. When we talk about mountain-mounted he has been abolished, then the Law on these assisted areas has been passed, we still, here we have been waiting for three years for implementing regulations that should help Gorski kotar, still waiting.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113294	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113295	Dear colleague Fabianic injured 238. The Rules of Procedure, offended all residents of the Gorski Kotar as it did not have enough information. And that is that just about 10 days ago, the mountain local self-government had a decision to finance projects in the area of Gorski Kotar worth nearly 6 million kuna. Since you do not have information that is relevant, accurate and factual I consider this a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: Time's up, fellow Buric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113296	I have not seen anywhere in this Rules of Procedure again that it says that ignorance, ignorance is an insult to anyone, he must be both uninformed and ignorant, and you must according to the Rules of Procedure get a warning because this is not an injury. So, here did you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure or something?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113297	The breach of the Rules of Procedure because, in the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the colleague referred to the amounts of money given as a charity to the municipalities of Gorski Kotar, and I was talking about implementing regulations not money.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113298	Yeah, and that didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, but in some other way, but you've hurt a colleague now. You get the same warning. And Rade Simičevic without warning in the final speech on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113299	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed state secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. At the end of this debate, what I can say is that for a country, safety is important, defence is important, economics is important, health is important. But without education, there would actually be none of these segments, and therefore extremely important that the state recognises the need for investment and development in education, especially in vocational education. This law by a colleague has not been spectacular before, but this law is extremely important and necessary to bring, to refer to offices in vocational education. We today have agreed to enroll a lot more students than the EU or countries in our environment do. It means 30% while we enroll in high school education 30% of students, and in fact, it is Europe, or the EU, to enroll 40% of high school students, 60% in vocational schools. So, as far as professions are concerned, we're advocating them. Now the question arises whether we meet the needs of the labour market. The professional interest that is current and which can meet the needs of the labour market right now is recognised and it actually serves the development of the economy, the progress of society and the creation of added value. Whether our professions are like that and whether they fit this challenging moment. Certainly not, and therefore I believe that, apart from what we are doing with the Law on Professional Education, the next phase we should do is sectors, i.e. occupations, i.e. the Croatian classification framework. So we need to reduce the number of occupations that exist on the labour market in Croatia because at this point they are obsolete and cannot meet the needs of today's society. When we do all of this, whether we are really going to educate people who will stay here in Croatia or because we are a community of civilised European countries where they are given a second chance whether our students will go outside, it is now another topic. But surely if we don't value professional professions, if we don't pay good enough for those occupations, then people will leave us. The true God was always migration in the '70s and '80s and '90s, even now. It's just that, the borders are open, the Croats are going to Germany, the Germans are going to Spain, the Spanish are going to America, so the market is open. But if we work on our people being able to live with dignity from their work, then we will certainly keep them here in Croatia. This law therefore gives the possibility that local communities can plan together with schools of interest, giving the possibility that practical work is not only implemented in workshops at school, but also implemented by employers. It's the possibility of a mentor who'll lead it all. There is also the possibility of achieving the right to scholarships for deficiting occupations, and I hope warmly that we will bring this law to a purpose and that it will justify trust. What I'm trying to say in the end is that we need to invest more in people. So it's extremely important that we not only popularise knowledge, skills of professional professions, but also people who work in vocational schools so that they are adequately paid. All without it, I'm actually afraid we're not going to achieve that goal that this law needs to be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113300	Thank you. On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, he will finally speak to counterpart Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113301	I thank the chairman. My colleagues and colleagues from the ruling majority, I don't know if you've read the same law as we have, but the position of the Social Democrats is that with this law, unfortunately, they don't solve essentially the problems that are present in vocational education, and now I'm going to list three reasons why it's not good. First we can start with the students. You're talking about connecting the education system and the labour markets. Did you in this law now provide students with practice in companies? You're not. Who's gonna get them that? Their parents. He'll go beg, bestow on a child to get practice in a company or that's what a student will look for. The school cannot provide it, the school is just one of the signatories of the tripartite agreement, or contract, and then the student stays on the road unless he finds a practice, and you could have done it. This place for teaching students won't provide school, neither will the state. The question, then, is whether or not the student will be able to go in the direction he intended if his parent or he does not find a place to teach. Secondly, did this law provide for the certification of companies where the practice or teaching would be done, wouldn't it be normal to define the conditions under which a student undertaking must be in practice, in which a student undertaking has to do the teaching, wouldn't it be normal to have regulations that these machines must be in that company, that all steps must go through? I'm talking here, you've been talking, and here's the opposition people, opposition representatives, that we have a problem because we have students coming to the market who aren't ready to work, and that they'll be ready to work if they're trained in an enterprise that has a single machine, and 15 other machines didn't pass that they should have passed, is that what you predicted in law, you're not, why you didn't, I don't know, but you claim the law is great. Next, let's go to the regional competence centers. A colleague from Licko-Senj County who expressed regret and suspicion here should not complain, nor try anything and torture because there is not a single regional centre of competence in Ličko-Senj County. It seems that these centers were also being obtained by the fastest finger system, not by who, where and what should and now we have the situation we have, that in some counties we have 2, 3 or 5 centers, and in some counties we have nothing. Does this mean that children from Lika-Senj County shouldn't be competent? ... So what does it have to do with anything? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Where will the student go to practice? Furthermore, did you, did you make sure that the regional centres were competent after 5 years. alive? Do you know that 5. RCK can't get into the market, it's clear to you, right, until then it will be funded with EU funds, and after that, we'll have empty RCKs, as we have empty sports halls, sports halls are funded, and today yawns empty, why, because they're in losses. Who's going to finance those RCKs later, is that somewhere defined in the law? It's not. Why are we late? We have 14 months to spend money, so the money is booked somewhere in the EU, we have 14 months to spend that money, are we able to spend it? Most of the RCKs haven't even started their construction yet, most of them, some at least have projects, and most of them don't even have projects finished. This all together in the law is not defined and the Social Democrats Club believes that this law does not solve problems and that is why we will not vote on the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113302	Thank you. Here are the final debates, and in the end Mr Tomislav Paljak will address us on behalf of the promoter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113303	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, distinguished MPs and representatives of HS. Here I will strive in my closing letter to look at the order of presentations of MPs and advocates in front of committee clubs because I believe that I will thus unite the key elements of this law as another reminder of the reasons why I ask you on behalf of the promoter to support it, but what has been troubled during the presentation and debate. For example, the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education is an operational body with experts who have long-term working experience in vocational education, they have been capacitated to implement reforms and to withdraw EU funds and therefore lead them and they are responsible for what is happening in that portfolio. Unique curriculas for level 4.2 for Croatian language, mathematics and foreign language have been brought in just so that all students have the same opportunities at the national prom. It's about general education. The ASO implements the modernization of the curricula, over 120 new professional curricula is in the making and will be applied from 2023 to '24, as it looks like I will explain this scheme later, and as far as learning outcomes are concerned, they can be obtained through general educational subjects exactly, but also through professional models, even through learning based naturally on work. With regard to the attractiveness of three-year and professional professions, how we will raise, and by promoting the reputation of these professions, we must also have this role in the competent chamber and employers themselves and we are aware of that and that is why we are working together. ASO has spent several years promoting professional professions through the Worldskills competition, you could recently see what it looks like in practice and how much it is visited. For raising the attractiveness of the profession, cooperation between schools and employers is important, it is a narrative of this law, and it emphasizes it in particular. As regards scholarships for students and generally scholarships for students of less developed areas, I will remind the law on marketable and wanted qualifications, so the law does not speak of the social status of students. The criteria for granting scholarships will bring in ministries, counties, cities, employers and will determine for themselves who has the right to scholarships, will determine the height of these scholarships themselves, so they will be the ones who will do it because they know better than me or, for example, here are representatives of Daus or Radolovic. Why is it mandatory to pass a mentor's exam? Because he must have basic knowledge for working with a student and these are competences that are naturally and pedagogically marked. The fact that he's a longtime successful employee in this business doesn't mean he knows how to convey knowledge. The fact is that we have significantly shortened this programme and adjusted it to the needs of employers and that the mentor who was trained after that instead of those 225 hours solves it in 40 hours, the process is accelerated and the process when we add it, and the possibility of a quick inclusion of its replacement is quite different from what we have now. Why is this precisely the process of evaluation and the fact that it is mentioned that teachers do not participate in this commission? First, this commission was too large and it was not operational and it proved that schools showed us that it was wrong, that we had to change it. We have changed in a way that we have a five-member quality commission where there is a representative of the teaching council, but we also have an operational school team where two teachers and one expert associate are. So I think that at all problematizing the fact that we have a much more active, more proactive process of self-evaluation should not be specifically cited. As for paperwork, I don't know, I didn't find it exactly in that particular term, but the fact is that we wrote in the explanation that she wasn't special to those mentors because they're just running a map of practical teaching, which they've been doing so far. How to improve practical knowledge given the observed lack of these practical skills, is exactly what the law emphasizes, learning based on work in the working environment, therefore increasing the role of the employer, encouraging them to receive students, it is the responsibility of all stakeholders to motivate students for deficiting professions, promote them, to come to the conclusion that progress is visible so much today that simply those clichés who once placed themselves in these professional professions are no longer such, these are highly sophisticated tools and they greatly change the paradigm of work on these jobs. How will those with improved working conditions be able to attract students in certain professions and regardless of the competent chambers, and regardless of the concern that we will now transfer everything to employers by learning based on work, because teaching is always happening and will take place in schools and will be participated and in vocational knowledge in schools only because the ratio will change as children go to higher classes of secondary schools and thus the outcomes of their learning will increase. The material status of teachers, of course, is that back a few years has improved, wages have increased, the rule of progress has been improved, they can also improve their status, the best teachers are as you know and reward, but of course they should continue to be valued and that the material position of teachers and teachers and all those who work with children should be improved and we are aware and we do not run away from it. As for what is motivated by the employer to receive students, I think that this law involves the most employers in the process of education and that those who will now simply be motivated to co-operate with schools both with teachers and with real so-called. In this way, the sector will promote both its sectors and promote what it does and I think it will want contracts and reward students. We cannot prescribe by law that, that the employer must pay, even when it stood, it did not happen in practice, simply the employer must be so motivated that he receives students on learning based on work and that the contract binds him and, of course, rewards him, which is also made possible by this law. So, as far as the national curricula is concerned, the definition is exactly the same in the law, and it follows what that document from 2018 provides, and it is in line with the basic law, the Law on Education and Education, so we also had to explain it a little bit here and here. Continual training in the profession, namely vocational education does not end with the completion of schools, which is what I think everyone is very aware of, must be flexible, must be creative, must be developed, these are simple competences which today and what today is offering, is simply such a rhythm of life, and that is something that a young man, a future worker must be prepared and therefore, of course, the agency is willing and is here to constantly perform, permanently perform professional training. As for further what we've had so far and these perceptions that we have vocational education represented 70% in our education system, that is, the fact is that of that percentage is in terms of 3 years and 4 years, 40% of 3 years and 60% of 4 years old, of these 4-year-olds, so with all this story that there's not enough knowledge, general education, etc., 75% of them are enrolled in higher schools. So we don't have a vertical problem and we have a pass-through system, we have a problem with a possible, possible definition of what professional education is. After all, these three-year-olds are not cut off in that vertical, and they are given the possibility that if they change their mind, if they want to go for another year and it is not particularly binding, then it is normally entered as all other students, so on the burden of the state and the education system. What is, of course, happening here is the fact that we had, and this is repeatedly mentioned, classical, classical programs, dual programs we had in the experiment and these unique education models that were scholarshipd, which were tied to EU strategic documents, which were now consummated and no longer indicated because there is no budgetary justification in the law that it can be scholarshipd from the budget. Now it exists, and that's why we say it in the law. And that's the story about scholarships, future scholarships and future student motivation. As far as enrollment policy is concerned, every year 7,000 unlisted places in our schools. That's 350 grade departments of over 20 students. We have 420 grade departments from which you have 1 to 9 students in your class, so these are systems that simply have to experience some kind of optimization, of course, with all of these examples in which, with our proposal of 150 such mergers, we have come to 49 talking to, with founders and respecting their reasons. This law will also be one indicator on the other hand, which is the real needs of the market, which they may not be. As far as quality is concerned, and here I'm going to tell you just one more thing here for your information. What is this, what are the professional professions that are at the level of the Republic of Croatia in the largest volume of enrolment? Here, an economist four-year-old tops, is the next hotel-tourism technician and then a computer technician. What are the least? Dimnjačar three-year-old student, three-year-old gardener and Lima processor, three-year-old students in all Croatia, fruit grower, winemaker, winemaker three-year-olds and barrels, three-year-olds, three-year-old painter 7 students and meteorological technician four-year program 9 students. And everyone's been granted an enrolment. So it's not the intensity that something is being lifted somewhere, it's not the intensity that somewhere where you have unfortunately 3 interests in the builder to remove the class section with the builders, but to complement them and optimise them. The quality of the law was also somewhat problematicd here, all procedures have passed including the Committee on Legislatives. What he does, doesn't work, which is the intensity I don't know. I know that in the last two years we've brought from my portfolio 2, 6 laws, 2 go into second reading, and 3 will be by the end of the year. And now the debate or rhetorical question of who has been working or what is the best moment to do what should have been done for a long time, of course, is that the best moment now is not going into the reasons that are so far in terms of reforming vocational education, as well as changing the necessary legislative framework is, or has not, currently being a resolute guide to which I do not refer, it is determined to implement the planned changes proposed by this law, and which has been preceded by a detailed analysis of the process which affects the existing legislative framework and which enables me to implement qualitative changes in the system of vocational education and training. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113304	Thank you, we have a few replicas for your exposure. First is colleague Zeljko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113305	My dear secretary, thank you for explaining to you the ruling majority about how many students are enrolled in vocational education because computer engineering technicians are going to end up in one of these businesses right away, they're going to all go to colleges. Also with electricians, etc., etc. I don't want to pick it up now. I'd like to ask you to explain something a little bit. You said here that you actually stimulate entrepreneurs to receive students for teaching. What are these stimulating measures that you're stimulating, that's the first question? And second question, we have in law the possibility of a public private partnership. How do you plan to attract investors to invest in competence centres when they're going to pay that money back, given that there's no going out on the market for five years, and then the question of what will and how?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113306	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113307	Well, thank you very much. Dear representative, as far as this last issue of regional competence centres is concerned, of course they're set up to be self-sustainable, what it will be like to build a self-sustainable one. Of course this law assumes it does. What you have stated and what I have purposely read from this data is actually going towards the need to pass this law, and that is what with all of its possible faults that we are not running away from is necessary and we are not running away from it, we want this process to start, not to be in some hibernation for 10, 12 years. And as for the content of the professional law or the Law on Professional Education, that was exactly what it looked like. The attraction of entrepreneurs takes place in the parallel process, so we are in fact in communication with the Croatian Employers' Association and with two chambers and crafts and economics, and we listen to what they suggest. They just suggested a model like this. learning based on work and that's what we've implemented. [[It's okay, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113308	Thank you. Fellow Radolović, here is your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113309	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you have called me and my colleague, Daus, on measure 2 for a scholarship, but the fact is that this is how it stands in your proposal that the newly developed units of local self-government and regional government will be abolished. We withdrew 590,000 kuna from that measure last year, and we don't want to make a difference between children. So we don't think there should be a difference in geographical representation. Another thing, about a scholarship. Okay, so you're saying you're just going to know the criteria for measure 2 2. As for the scholarships that were scheduled by the Ministry of Economy, I didn't hear your answer today about these scholarships. Which is why they've been abolished, which is why deficiting professions won't get students 1,500 kunas a month. And the third thing I would ask you to answer me, you haven't explained how you're going to attract the private and real sector to report its labour needs, and according to what you want to put in place, that HZZ recommendations are actually mandatory when planning quotas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113310	Thank you, colleague. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113311	Thank you very much. Uh, I answered because you asked, no. Why? It is not conditional, these scholarships are not conditional on social or any censorships or regional divisions. If you need to scholarship your students in the developed part of Croatia, no one is limiting you to scholarship them, and that is exactly what the text of this Act is. Of course, it can happen that the areas where he was spotted are particularly stimulated, of course, this potentially social problem and I am fully aware of him and I did not call you, but I cited it as an example in my presentation, so someone who is on the ground knows better what he needs from me who is not on that ground. As for the Ministry of Economy, I can't answer you why. I know that one part of the fund is being exhausted, which was tied to EU funds, is now allowing these funds to be implemented in scholarships, and now these things will no longer be... It's happening. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113312	Thank you. A colleague, Nikola Mažar, has a replica. ... My colleagues, in the hallway. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, Comrade Mazhar. ... Don't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, Comrade Marage. ... Well, we're not exactly gonna have a heads-up, but my colleague Mazhar is going to be speaking now, and a colleague can continue talking in the hallway with... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113313	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, here, although fellow Pavic has tried to offend us all that we have not read the same law, I will not go down to that level of on-call catastrophes by which the Republic of Croatia should have 400 thousand unemployed, the worst GDP decline in Europe, the catastrophic tourist season, the reduction of salaries and pensions, the non-use of EU funds, etc., etc., but these are their statements in the Assembly and I can only say, thank the Croatian citizens for not being in power and I believe that it will remain so, but what I want to say is that I thank you for listening to the whole debate and now in the final address replicated all the questions of our parliamentary representatives, I wish you also happiness in this final bill proposal and question do you have any projections when you see the first results of this bill?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113314	I would like to thank my colleague, Mažara, but we have prior to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Zeljko Pavić, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113315	The Honorable Chairman, Art. 238. I was just asking if we'd read the same law since it was obviously misunderstood here. The problem is they don't see each other at all. And these problems will come to us tomorrow, knock on the door, and we won't be able to implement the reforms. Comrade Mazhar, you can't do that. He can't have a parent looking for a practice for his child, he can't or can't, it needs to be provided either by school or by the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113316	I used to, buddy, you had a good line, but not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then it's a warning. Now, here you go, Secretary of State, answer your fellow Mazhar to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113317	Thank you very much. Yes, exactly, thank you for what you said. As for when the first results will be seen, it will be very visible and most visible at the beginning of the next school year, so the implementation of this Law, we will see how it goes, whether the rules should be passed and which and then the law will start to live. This is just a basic assumption, and here, that I do not remain in charge of MPs and on this second part of the question, so of course, everything that has been done here has been done in terms of the motivation of employers to receive students, given that they need a certain type of workforce or need a certain qualification for tasks they deal with in order to stimulate them in all ways and scholarships and contracts and material contributions, etc. It's their interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113318	Thank you very much. And the last replica, a colleague of Maja Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113319	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. It could be heard here today that the centres of competence were being given, not to say, by grandma and uncles. Personally, I remember everything that had to be attached and proved that the centre of competence was needed somewhere, and it wasn't true that it was shared so that, that the ruling one chose itself. A good centre of competence will be created through joint cooperation in Karlovac and.../incomprehensible/... There is one authority, the other is the second authority, because they have shown that this is necessary in this area... you have all the possible documents you've asked for. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, here, just a little bit to comment on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113320	Thank you very much. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113321	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yeah, you said right, that's the idea of regional competence centers. They must contain, in addition to being detained part of these structural reforms in vocational education, they should be one example of excellence, and even if there is no physical centre of competence in some area, it does not mean that it is not present in that area because each centre has its own partners. These partner schools are actively involved in the work of the regional centre of competence, as will take part in its self-sustainability in the future, therefore the dispersion is located throughout the Republic of Croatia and it is up to us to make a good project that is extremely demanding and requires a special debate, to do what is maximum.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113322	Thank you. Here, colleagues and colleagues, you can go. My colleagues and colleagues, we have concluded this debate on the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Education, and we will vote when the conditions are met. Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, here we now have a debate on: - Final proposal of the Law on the Recognition and Evaluation of Foreign Educational Qualifications, second reading, P.Z. No. 250 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172 in relation to Art. 190 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here you go. Mr. Ivica Šushak, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113338	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs, distinguished MPs. In front of you is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Recognition and Evaluation of Foreign Education Qualifications, and I would first of all like to thank you for the constructive debate during the first reading as well as the proposals and opinions presented. As we pointed out at the first reading, the current law dates back to 2003, and was last amended in 2011. It has become obsolete and is not in line with the EU Directive on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications. The Intangible Directive is incorporated into the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign, professional qualifications. The main objectives of the final draft law on the recognition and evaluation of foreign educational qualifications are to prescribe evaluation for employment purposes, and to prescribe recognition for the purpose of continuing education. When I talk about an evaluation for employment purposes, it is necessary first to clarify how this procedure is implemented under the applicable law. A decision on the recognition of an international educational qualification for access to the labour market which is now issued does not provide additional information for employers in particular in the section relating to the comparison of the level of qualifications acquired in the country in which the qualification was acquired in relation to the level of qualifications acquired with the levels of qualifications acquired in the Republic of Croatia, as this is not the subject of the administrative procedure. Therefore, at the request of the parties, the agencies issue additional opinions extending the whole process, a unnecessary administrative burden for both the agencies and the parties and the costs for the parties. The new law introduces an evaluation process for the purpose of accessing the labour market, i.e. employment in unregulated professions. The outcome of this procedure is an opinion on foreign education qualifications. The opinion contains detailed information on foreign educational qualification and higher education, i.e. educational institution acquired, and is not related to the rigid form of administrative procedure in relation to the content which increases the quality of information for the potential employer. The evaluation, i.e. the opinion on foreign education qualifications, shall include the determination of the level, volume, profile and quality of the foreign educational qualification as well as the rights given by that qualification in the country in which it is acquired. This flexibles the procedure for high-quality educational qualifications holders for easier access to the labour market, quality labour force on the one hand and for protection against non-quality qualifications, or diplomats on the other. The process will be run by three sectoral agencies of the Ministry of Science and Education, the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults and the Agency for Education and Education. Following the practices of most Member States of the European higher education area, employers need to be provided with more information on the qualification itself in order to make informed selection of potential accessees or candidates. Provisions on the evaluation of foreign educational qualifications for the purpose of employment shall be laid down for the purpose of access to professions which are not included in the list of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia and shall be removed in the jurisdiction between the agencies in the education system and the bodies responsible for regulated professions under the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. Furthermore, the applicable law does not allow the recognition of foreign educational qualifications in completed post-school education which is not part of higher education, thus cutting off persons who have acquired that qualification abroad and who need to be granted better status in the labour market. By new law, the new legal framework introduces the possibility of recognising after secondary education, which is not part of the higher education system, and we define the competence for the implementation of this procedure, which is assigned to the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults. I also point out that the belief of a completed study becomes credible evidence and no longer needs to wait for an international higher school to issue a degree that lasts for up to a year and more days. This reduces the duration of the procedure and enables people with foreign education qualifications to access the labour market faster. The new law also proposes an amended procedure for the recognition of foreign, educational qualifications for the purpose of continuing education. In practice, it looks like the next way. Under the applicable law, two proceedings shall be carried out. High-school recognition procedures are conducted separately from the registration process and often the recognition procedure ends after the registration procedure that comes after the recognition procedure. The recognition procedure shall be carried out as an administrative procedure as part of a centralised registration procedure at the Agency for Science and Higher Education, and if the enrolment is carried out through the Agency for Science and Higher Education or as an independent procedure conducted by independent higher education for enrolment in study programmes not centralised through the Agency for Science and Higher Education. It's part of graduate studies, postgraduate studies, and foreign language studies. This double procedure aims to establish the level of qualifications acquired in view of the right of access to higher education. Such a double procedure with the same purpose constitutes an unnecessary administrative burden, therefore the new law proposes that the high school recognition process be implemented in order to continue education as part of the application procedure with the Agency for Science and Higher Education. In cases where the application procedure is carried out only high school recognition will be carried out by a higher school as part of a single recognition and registration procedure. Following the debate in the first reading of the law on misunderstandings for recognition for the purpose of continuing education, or how students will know whether they should apply for recognition to the Agency responsible for Science and Higher Education as part of the central registration process or higher education, the applicant has completed the explanation and explained the procedure through the application, i.e. the link between the Agency for Science and Higher Education. Administrative burdens will also significantly reduce the integration of the EU Council Recommendation on the promotion of automatic mutual recognition of higher education qualifications and secondary education and training, as well as the outcome of learning abroad from 2018. The automatic recognition of the level refers to qualifications of higher universities from the EU, which is an externally valued agency which is a member of the European High Education Insurance Register and from qualifications systems associated with the European Qualification Frameworks. Automatic level recognition does not mean automatic enrolment, but a decision to enroll according to university autonomy and academic self-government makes only high school. Furthermore, the new law prescribes recognition of the period of education or recognition of part of education abroad with the aim of continuing education in the Republic of Croatia. In the case of primary school, the period of primary and secondary education shall be carried out by an educational institution in which the applicant wishes to continue his education. In the case of a period of higher education, the process of recognising part of education shall be carried out independently by higher universities. I would like to stress that the new law introduces the procedure for the evaluation of foreign educational qualifications of persons under international and subsidiary protection who are unable to provide evidence of their acquired qualification and members of their families who are legally staying in the Republic of Croatia. We also included the category of foreigners under temporary protection and members of the family of foreigners under temporary protection who are legally staying in the Republic of Croatia in the final text of the law. In addition to the nomotechnical remarks of the Assembly Committee on Legislatives, we also accepted the proposal to reduce the time limit for the evaluation of foreign educational qualifications for the purpose of accessing the labour market, and the deadline from 60 was reduced to 45 days. We also set minimum criteria in the process of recognition and evaluation for the purpose of continuing higher education, and we have defined the documents proving foreign educational qualifications and that the procedure can be carried out on the basis of the certificate of the completed study programme. We also accept amendments to the HS Legislative Committee in the light of the nomotechnical corrections in Article. 1st, and in view of Art. 9th and 19th. The funds for the implementation of this law are provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022. and projections for '23. And '24. in the framework of regular activities of competent authorities, competent agencies, educational institutions, and competent higher schools. With regard to the debate on the provision of additional financial resources for the implementation of the asylum and foreign persons recognition procedure under subsidiary protection, subsidiary and temporary protection, which do not have the necessary documentation, the procedure will be carried out by staff of competent agencies and higher universities as part of their regular activities. Azilants and foreigners under subsidiary and temporary protection will be exempt from the cost of the recognition procedure, and the same will be arranged by the Regulation on the amount of compensation for the costs of the recognition and evaluation procedures, the way in which the compensation is granted, the exemption from the payment of the compensation, and other costs issues. Finally, this final draft law is based on the improvement of the existing system of recognition and evaluation of foreign educational qualifications and periods of education abroad, and is in line with the EU strategic documents and the European higher education area, which consists of 49 countries implementing the Bologna process. The Ministry of Science and Education will provide support to competent authorities in order to successfully implement legal provisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113339	Thank you, I thank the Secretary of State. We've got a series of replicas on your opening exhibit, first mate is Nikola Mazhar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113340	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State Sušak, here from your opening statement, we have heard that this final bill is passed and for the sake of improvement, but also for the sake of harmonising some ambiguities that were visible in the process of recognition, but we also have a certain newspaper and what you have said, so I am interested in the high school and the agency responsible for science and higher education will also carry out this automatic recognition of therefore certain levels of qualifications, but also in the course of enrolment, but it will not be a recognition at last but also in the institutions, and so that there will be an automatic recognition that will require certain conditions, so trust in the system from which this qualification comes, but also that the national framework is consistent with the European framework and is mentioned here and in the European space, so I might be closer if you can say and related to this European space, so are those countries which are not EU member states?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113341	Thank you, thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113342	Thank you very much. The recognised representative, namely the automatic recognition of the agreements and the signing of the agreement and the basic condition is that the evaluation in the country from which the foreign higher education qualification is to be recognised is to be carried out by the competent authority or agency registered in the European Registry of the Agency. We have a problem, unfortunately all EU Member States do not have such a quality assurance system as Croatia does, let's say that I think that an example for Bulgaria, for another country, is not sure that their Member States are not this, do not have such a good level of quality assurance and external evaluation of higher education where then there would be automatic recognition of higher education qualifications and for the purpose of accessing the labour market, but also for the purpose of further education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113343	Thank you very much. The next replica is colleague Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113344	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you yourself have initially said that this law, therefore existing dates back to 2003, was novelized once, meaning 2011. and, therefore, it is indeed out of date and above all not in line with the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications, and neither with the National Development Strategy nor with what is more important with EU strategic documents, and of course I believe that this is finally, the final proposal for a law in many ways, so this law adapts the time in which we live. What I particularly welcome is the reduction of the time limit for the evaluation of foreign educational qualifications for access to the labour market from 60 to 45 days. And what is important in Article 2(2) is more clearly defined documents proving to be an international educational qualification. I'm holding on, I'm guessing it'll contribute to quality and efficiency.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113345	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113346	Thank you very much. Therefore, the commission that prepared and worked on the draft legal text was composed of stakeholders of the system and was inside a representative of the Rector's Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, which consisted of rectors of all public and representatives of private universities. We went to a united and centralised procedure to protect the parties, so that parties in the process of recognition should have legal protection and a unique set of all information for accession. Now it depends on the high school itself whether it will be determined that his recognition procedure is carried out by the agency or that he will carry it out on his own. The universities insisted on a formal administrative procedure. Unlike this recognition for the purpose of employment or access to the labour market, which goes through an evaluation that ends with an opinion where the employer will be able to see what the quality is really like and what his job candidate ended up with and what differences in quality are compared to the diplomas acquired in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113347	Thank you very much. And my colleague Simičević has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113348	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications is in fact intended for the holder of this qualification that comes to Croatia to be recognised or included in the world of work or to continue education here in Croatia. And that, as I understand it, refers to regulated professions. How are unregulated professions regulated and do we have, we also have such requirements that come here to Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113349	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113350	Thank you, Your Honor, so regulated professions go according to the Law on regulated professions and the procedure for their professional recognition where the great role is played by professional chambers, the Czech Associations for individual professions prescribed. A large number of all professions or professions are regulated and special, is a special procedure where the profession itself must give an opinion or all about the quality of a degree and content or the outcomes of learning that one has acquired. Here, this law regulates, a law that regulates or regulates or regulates unregulated professions in front of you. We tried to agree or compromise on two opposing requests. On the one hand, the requirement for a new labour market or through access and foreign persons to the labour market in Croatia, on the other hand, to ensure the quality of diplomas entering the Croatian labour market which is imperative in order to protect our education system and our higher education institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113351	My colleagues, the coat of arms of Bujević, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113352	Thank you, Vice President. Article 15 provides that the Minister of Education will adopt a regulation governing recognition and evaluation criteria for the purpose of continuing education. But to carry out an evaluation of previous learning for those who, for example, I cannot deliver documents from war zones that cannot be implemented, and it is very important to us because of the people we have in the country before this rule is adopted. Is there any exception here or when it can be expected to be passed?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113353	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113354	In any case, the Ministry's services are already working to prepare the regulations. The first condition, of course, that we pass a law that gives the minister the authority to make the rules. The criteria for the evaluation or recognition of the period of part of education or persons under subsidiary protection or displaced persons are a very difficult and specific procedure where institutions are fully autonomous both educational institutions for the level of primary and secondary education and for the very high school which is at the heart of their autonomy. And there are rules, there are working groups that will try to improve this system of inquiry where there must be both the setting and the checking of knowledge and the verification of the adoption of individual learning outcomes, which is a complicated process. So far, we have not had a large number in Croatia, but because of the situation and the war in Ukraine and aggression, Russia's aggression in Ukraine has simply been a major problem, and these high schools especially have to take this step forward in order to set the criteria alone autonomously, and then give us a basis for adopting the rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113355	Thank you very much. Comrade Brcic, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113356	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here you have mentioned Ukraine yourself and I think it is commendable to all what the Republic of Croatia does to help Ukraine, and in a special way to refugees who are here somewhere around 16,000. This was about 10 days, it is expected that Croatia would receive and it is commendable that you calculate this law of the proposal, bearing in mind their fate in the evaluation of foreign educational qualifications means that they get the most out of it whether they go to work, whether they continue schooling, so I wonder if you may at least have an indication of what number they are about to look for.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113357	So the number, the number of requests for access or inclusion in an educational institution, is quite large, and it varies on a daily basis. We now have how to implement in principle tenders for, for qualifications and national graduations and for high-school enrolment, persons who receive the status of displaced persons or refugee status will have the same rights as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with regard to this enrolment at higher schools and the cost of study. There is no correct, accurate number at this time, as far as the registration procedure has been opened or the registration procedure is concerned. So I believe somewhere in July we'll have this complete data and we'll go public with them. On a daily basis, we communicate with both higher universities and educational institutions our administration of national minorities is monitoring and coordinating the entire system from hour to hour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113358	Thank you. Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. Let's go to the next line, colleague Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113359	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear Secretary of State, here are a few questions we have received precisely for, regarding persons and students from Herceg Bosnia who have acquired their qualifications just at universities and universities, especially here I appeal to the University of Mostar. With this bill, they are particularly interested in leaving the nostrification process itself, whether something is changing for them, especially for those who have acquired certain qualifications, but also for those who are currently studying how we are going to be put in place, whether something is going to be complicated about themselves, the procedures themselves, or because we are working with the University of Mostar itself and for such public, public and university universities there will be no major changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113360	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113361	Thank you very much, so when it comes to the University of Mostar as the only higher education institution in which the course is performed in Croatian and supported by the Republic of Croatia where Croatian academic teachers participate in teaching will not change anything because our agency for science and higher education evaluated or recredited the University of Mostar and there goes the process of automatic recognition of qualifications for the purpose of continuing education and for the purpose of accessing the labour market. However, when it comes to BiH from 1,000 to 1,100 requests for recognition of higher education diplomas in the Republic of Croatia for employment or access to the labour market, we have problems and disadvantages with quality because you have a large number of private higher schools in BiH, not to mention the names of cities, names and cities in which they are located and they have a quality problem and there is a process of recognition where important differences in quality, example of Brcko or this Travnik or Knight, are such some kind of negative examples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113362	And the last replica, colleague Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113363	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I will also bow to all those who welcome the adoption of this law. It will certainly contribute to facilitating our citizens' access to the labour market. However, I will also resort to the previous replica where I would particularly stress that it is necessary and to improve or pass some new law regarding regulated professions where we know that, besides the agency, chambers with additional requirements for passing additional exams are imposed. In particular, the same diploma must be evaluated in the agency, but also in the chamber in order to be employed in different sectors. This process takes a long time, it costs a lot, and I think that this should certainly be further arranged by the team, which is precisely what we really need, social work, medicine, defectologists are about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113364	Time, thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113365	Thank you, well-respected MPs, definitely if I may so express myself cry for, for promotions and additions and amendments to the entire system of recognition in regulated professions. We had a request for a meeting of the Medical Chamber where there is a great shortage of pharmacists, pharmacists, but also interests in the field of social care, health care where there is a huge lack of labour or at all people who, who will lead and carry this whole system, will have complicated and in the area of the sisterhood it is repeatedly highlighted. It's just that the chambers are conscious, that's the impression that we're gaining, aware of the problems, and it seems to me that they're slowly coming up with proposals to improve from palitative medicine to the welfare system, homes for this for the pensioners and so on, so we have a sign of a step up and we believe that in the plan of normative activities for next year we could go with the improvement of that normative framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113366	Thank you Secretary of State, no more replicas you can place. We're starting debates on behalf of the clubs. He's the first in the name of his colleague, Nikola Grmoy. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Next in line is the distinguished representative Katarina Nemet on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113367	I thank the esteemed vice president. My colleagues and colleagues, with today's position on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, have pointed to a problem that has just escalated in tourism, and this is the problem with the lack of workers. I have called on all stakeholders in the system and they are taking concrete steps to address this key problem. And now we have before us the Law on the Recognition and Evaluation of Foreign Education Qualifications, which regulates the way and procedures for the evaluation of foreign educational qualifications for the purpose of accessing the labour market in professions not included in the list of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia, which are carried out in accordance with specific regulations. And we see it as a positive shift towards addressing the lack of workers in all segments of the economy. We also commend the fact that amendments suggest that the process of recognition of the level of foreign education qualifications is carried out only once in the course of the registration procedure with the Agency for Science and Higher Education, or at higher schools, not twice as far as it was so far. Furthermore, as the proposal reduces the time limit for the evaluation of the foreign educational qualification from 60 to 45 days, all with a view to faster access to the labour market. It is also a positive provision of Article 20 of the Law which regulates the fact that the evaluation of foreign educational qualifications can now be sought by an asylumary, a foreigner under subsidiary protection and a foreigner under temporary protection, and members of the family of asylum seekers, foreigners under subsidiary protection, or foreigners under temporary protection who are legally staying in the Republic of Croatia, who are equal to Croatian citizens. I come from northwestern Istria, it's a border area where we don't have a number of our young citizens decide to study in neighbouring Slovenia or Italy. They go there to colleges, but they also enroll in high school and there are problems for them if they want to go back to Croatia after school and do what they were trained to do. For this speaker, we have already mentioned a case of a girl who finished her secondary medical school in Slovenia, but when she decided to return to Umag and work as a nurse, it turns out she has to take differential exams for two years and can only then work in her profession. By then, in this country, the person with the primary school completed and can practically not get a single job for which the condition of the secondary professional prepares. The following example is an example of a girl who graduated from the Italy logo. After completing her education, she decided to return to Croatia and try to look for a job as a logo, and she came across a complicated procedure of nostrifying the diploma and the fact that it will last for at least two years, that she will not be able to work for two more years in the profession and that profession that we lack in both kindergartens and schools. We should not be surprised, therefore, that young people are leaving Croatia. When it comes to reforms, it is always an emphasis on the need to implement reforms in this sector or in that sector, but on these examples, we see that the system that we have today creates injustice among people and they are unsatisfactorily, irrevocably leaving Croatia and going to other European countries that will recognise their knowledge, skills and professional qualifications. When will that end?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113368	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next up is Green-Left Block Representatives' Club. In the name of this club will speak for the distinguished representative Damir Bakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113369	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministry representatives, secretary of state. First of all, in this debate on the final proposal, I will begin with the conclusion that we welcome the two news anyway. It's a good thing that finally it's arranged to recognise after high school vocational education, so that's what's called non-tertial post-secondary, because there's more and more of such qualifications. And it is also good that the administrative procedure has finally been abolished for the recognition of foreign higher education qualifications for access to the labour market. Now let's go to the remarks we made in our first reading. First and this Final Proposal for the Law provides for an administrative procedure in the recognition of foreign qualifications for the purpose of continuing education. In the argument, in the light of this text of the final draft law, it is stated that the retention of the administrative procedure effectively enables the exercise of the right in the event of a dispute. That's possible, right. However, on the other hand, we have pointed to the necessary flexibility, because the problem is in the rigour of the administrative process which leaves insufficient space for various situations that often occur in higher education. I will mention again when, for example, the high school where previous education has been achieved is not accredited in the country in which it is located, but is recognised by the quality of the studies or not accredited because it is a supranational institution founded by several countries, etc. On the other hand, we welcome the addition of the concepts in Article 2 for which we have advocated, which now implies that under public law there is also a confirmation of the completion of the programme because it is really necessary in cases where the relevant diploma is not yet issued entirely for whatever reason. So, of course, that was the intensity of the legal text and in the first reading, that was understood. We certainly think it's better if it's inexplicable now. We welcome and amend paragraph 3 of Article 9 for the intervention of some fellow MPs, which is now being reduced from 60 to 45 days for the purpose of accessing the labour market. As regards the asylum proceedings and foreigners under subsidiary protection which, for justified reasons, are not able to provide documentation showing an external educational qualification. We stressed that this requires a designed system, certainly some new resources and, of course, additional financial resources. Without this, without additional resources, without additional money, it will not be possible to satisfy Article 21 of this Act, which states that mandatory parts of the information document on foreign educational qualifications are data on the educational institution or the higher education institution which issued the qualification, profile, level and assessment of the scope of qualifications, etc. Because as already pointed out in the countries from which asylum seekers and people under subsidiary protection are often not available, and there are also problems with the websites of educational institutions and competent authorities. We should keep in mind that our environment is small. Large and many countries that receive many such requirements for the recognition of qualifications from such countries and which then issue appropriate information documents have the resources, above all, for example the original speakers who can conduct interviews with applicants and who deal with the educational systems of certain countries and know the details that enable them to filter the information. It is clear that the establishment of appropriate mechanisms or tools is costing, and therefore the claim that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources is not accurate. Now, in the light of this final proposal, the law states that the relevant regulation will include a provision on the release of asylum seekers and foreigners under subsidiary protection from the cost of recognition and evaluation procedures. This is an explanation that refers to the comment we made in this context in the first reading. Of course, it is necessary to welcome the provision of this future regulation, which will include a provision on the release of asylum seekers and foreigners under subsidiary protection from the cost of the recognition procedures of their qualifications, we certainly welcome this, but this does not say anything about ensuring the necessary additional resources. And finally, we have already pointed to possible misunderstandings in the application of Art. 13 and 14 we usually greet. These articles refer to the process of recognising foreign qualifications for the purpose of continuing education at the diplomatic and postgraduate level. Namely in Art. 13 is said to begin the procedure to apply to the agency responsible for science and higher education. However, in Art. 14 is simply allowed immediately after that another option, and writes, for the purpose of enrolment in graduate, postgraduate and foreign language studies, the higher school can also carry out the procedure of recognition of foreign education qualifications on its own. So one thing, then another, and in that sense, it would be a provision. 13 It is likely that something should be relaxed or an appropriate extension should be entered in the wording of the article. 14 to bring these two articles in line. The context is clear, the interpretation is probably not difficult, but surely it would be useful in practice to edit it more precisely. And speaking of which, it is actually unclear and what is the role, i.e. the actual content of Article 2. 14 so please check it out. On this trail we will submit appropriate amendments, but I say, they are only technical, we certainly welcome the possibility, so we welcome the alternative offered by art. 13 and 14 in the set. Here, I won't be long, that'll be all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113370	Thank you, colleague Bakiæ. Hello. We're moving on. Dear Representative Rada Simičević will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113371	I would like to thank the vice president of HS, the honourable secretary of state, with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here is the Final Proposal for the Law on the Recognition and Evaluation of Foreign Educational Qualifications. To remind ourselves, the adoption of the Law in 2003 left the nostrification process based on a comparison of study educational programmes with related programmes implemented in the Republic of Croatia and resulted in a correction that provided for the equality of foreign qualifications with qualifications acquired in the Republic of Croatia. Instead of nostrification, a procedure for the recognition of foreign educational qualifications with the purpose of employment and recognition of foreign educational qualifications or abroad education periods for the purpose of continuing education has been introduced. That there was a lot of work to be done with data from where the Agency for Science and Higher Education conducted a total of 8 346 procedures for the recognition of foreign educational qualifications from 2017 to 2021. True God, over 50% of the requirements in 2021 refer to qualifications from R. Bosnia and Herzegovina, followed by Slovenia with a total of 8% and Serbia with 5%. The average duration of the recognition procedure for foreign educational qualifications in 2021 was 5 days. For the period 2011-2021 The Agency for Science and Higher Education has issued a total of 913 opinions on foreign educational qualifications in higher education at the request of higher universities which carry out the recognition of foreign and educational qualifications for the purpose of continuing education. The process of recognising Croatian qualifications in higher education abroad, the Agency for Science and Higher Education in the period from 2017 to 2021 issued a total of 484 opinions on qualifications issued by higher universities from the Republic of Croatia. The Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education in 2004-2021 implemented a total of 5 175 procedures for the recognition of foreign education qualifications completed in secondary education, in vocational programmes for the purpose of employment or follow-up of secondary education in vocational programmes for the purposes of employment or follow-up of education in the Republic of Croatia. Why did it approach the changes? Given that the applicable Law on the Recognition of Foreign Education Qualifications does not clearly distinguish the procedures for the recognition of foreign educational qualifications with the aim of access to the labour market, which is not regulated and access to professions identified as regulated in the Republic of Croatia, there is uncertainty in the competence between the agencies in the education system in charge of the recognition of foreign educational qualifications and the bodies responsible for the regulation of professions. Additional misunderstandings in jurisdiction include ambiguities due to dual jurisdiction or ambiguity due to the conduct of jurisdiction. For example, in art. 6 Law on the recognition of foreign educational qualifications, I quote, the procedure for the recognition of foreign school qualifications on completed primary education for the purpose of employment or follow-up of education, completed quote, led by the Education and Education Agency, while in art. 7 of the same law states, I quote, the process of recognising primary education for access to high school education, a school institution, completed a quote. On the other hand, the applicable Law on the Recognition of Foreign Education Qualifications is not one, nor is it given to any agency in the jurisdiction to recognise foreign educational qualifications at a level higher than secondary education but not part of higher education since such qualifications are not acquired in the Republic of Croatia, but are acquired abroad. Furthermore, the lack of transparency and lack of clarity in the recognition procedures stemming from existing rules does not consist solely in unclear jurisdiction but also in insufficient information provided by the formal outcome of the procedure for the recognition of foreign educational qualifications with a purpose of employment. The recognition of qualifications with the purpose of continuing education at the first level of higher education under the existing Law on the Recognition of Foreign Education Qualification shall be carried out by the Education and Education Agency in the case of the recognition of the secondary qualification of general education or of the Professional Education and Education Agency when it comes to qualifications acquired in vocational education and training. Questions that are dealt with by law. The procedure for the evaluation of foreign educational qualifications shall apply for access to the labour market in professions not included in the list of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia. After the evaluation procedure, an opinion shall be issued on the level, volume, profile and quality of the foreign educational qualification which must be reasoned. In cases where a qualification holder wishes to continue education in the Republic of Croatia, this law proposes the recognition of periods of education, recognition of foreign education qualifications for the purpose of continuing education and the automatic recognition of foreign educational qualifications in secondary and higher education. The recognition of the period of education will be carried out by higher schools or educational institutions for persons who have started education abroad and have not acquired foreign education qualifications. The recognition of foreign educational qualifications for the purpose of continuing education at higher, at the same or higher level of education will be carried out by the Agency in charge of science and higher education in the course of the enrolment process or will be carried out independently by a higher school or an Agency for adult vocational education. The higher schools and agencies responsible for science and higher education will carry out automatic recognition of the level of foreign educational qualifications as part of application or registration procedures without recognition. The automatic recognition of foreign educational qualifications in secondary and higher education shall also be carried out in cases where there is reasonable confidence in the country's quality of education assurance system. Such trust exists when it comes to qualifications acquired in countries that are linked to the European Qualifications Framework and to the qualification framework of the European Higher Education Area and to higher universities which are externally evaluated by the Quality Insurance Agency, which is listed in the European Education Register. Furthermore, this law introduces the possibility of evaluating foreign educational qualifications for the purpose of continuing education at the same or higher level of education, as well as for access to the labour market for asylum seekers, foreigners under subsidiary protection, and foreigners under temporary protection in the Republic of Croatia and members of the asylum family, foreigners under subsidiary protection, or foreigners under temporary protection who are legally staying in the Republic of Croatia who are unable to provide documentation showing foreign education. This allows the implementation of the provisions on the rights of persons without the documentation necessary to recognise in accordance with the Law establishing the Convention on the Recognition of Higher Educational Qualifications in Europe. The objective of the amendment of the legal framework for the recognition of foreign educational qualifications should be to improve the policy of recognition of foreign education policies, to recognise foreign educational qualifications with simplified procedures and to remove administrative barriers to international mobility in education and labour mobility with the application of the qualification framework and in line with the European principles on quality assurance in higher education. In the end, here's my thanks to the Ministry for the proposed order. The HDZ Club will support this Final Proposal for the Law on the Recognition and Evaluation of Foreign Education Qualifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113372	Thank you, fellow Shimičević. Let's move on, on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, it is now up to representative Sanja Radolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113373	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we all know that the recognition of foreign qualifications is particularly important to our citizens, but also to the citizens of third countries and people without our citizenship as employers. The mobility of citizens within the EU itself, as well as the wider internationalisation of education, has certainly brought many benefits, but it has also raised problems that we witness daily the education of people who change their permanent place of residence. We all know that, for example, the Erasmus programme has increased the mobility of our students who, for example, have initially encountered the number of problems of recognising their diplomas. Today, however, we have a much greater problem of recognising qualifications for labour market needs than it is for the very system of continuing education. The Republic of Croatia has been implementing the procedure for the recognition of foreign higher education qualifications since 1.7.2004 and is based on the principles of the Convention on the Recognition of Higher Educational Qualifications in Europe and the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Recognition of Higher Educational Qualifications in Europe. I have to admit, this law doesn't actually bring anything new. There aren't any you could say shifts or worse, but there's not too much for the better. What remains in this legislative proposal is evident that we will have a problem duplicating the work of individual agencies. So we have 3 sectoral agencies plus academic recognition offices set up at high schools and there are often doubles in this legislative proposal in certain areas. In particular, I am interested in this legislative proposal not strictly defined, which is going to happen, for example, easily in the EU, so we all know that if someone is covered by the ERIC/NARIC network, if it has accredited the European Quality Insurance Agency that automation, and that is good in this proposal of the Law, will recognise such higher education qualifications. However, we have a problem with what if, for example, someone from the prestigious Chinese university, what if someone from the prestigious American university starts to nostrate their high school qualifications that he needs either to continue education or for labour market purposes. I don't think this bill still adds to that as it should, it doesn't simplify. I don't think it's realistic and that we shouldn't just focus on the EU and cover the ERIC/NARIC network since there are clearly also world-ranked universities and a large number of the most ranked universities with the most prestigious diplomas are just outside the EU itself. Furthermore, what I also think will continue to confuse, both employers and students, and the entire academic community, it is certainly just a distinction of terminology, from the recognition of the period of education, recognition of foreign educational qualifications for the purpose of continuing education, as well as the automatic recognition of educational qualifications in higher education. I personally testify that even in our offices for academic recognition of foreign higher education qualifications at universities where teachers are sitting and teachers in permanent calls continue to have a problem with understanding the termology itself, so that, and then this is further enhanced when they refer to memos, for example, to the Science Agency, there is further confusion, and then the person who submitted the request is often waiting and much longer than that, a course for enrolment. Furthermore, the problem of joint studies. By the way, they warned me about the problem of recognising their diplomas. Here, we in Pula have one, say, joint doctoral study with Eisenstadt and it was a big problem how to nostrate those degrees when a person wants to get a job, so I'm not talking about a lower, lower level of education, I'm talking about a doctorate of science. They encountered major problems when they finished their studies when, for example, they came to Germany to work, they did not know how to nostrate them because, for example, in Croatia, they are worth one rule, in Austria where the second component of the joint study is worth the third rule. Also, what I would like to point out, and this is also a bit of a discrepancy with the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. I think there's going to be a big problem. Not only because of the inconsistency itself, because we still don't have a draft of a new law on quality assurance in higher education that is being prepared. We have seen that a new law on scientific and higher education came out in the light of the day, however, personally, I believe that it was primarily necessary to go to the Quality Insurance Act because it binds to all these legislative proposals that we have here today, and in fact I am almost certain that, in that sense, when the proposal of the Quality Insurance Act comes out in education, it will have to go to some legal changes and these recognitions of higher education qualifications. But the biggest problem, however, is what I said at first, why this law is a chamomile, and that's what we mentioned here in the very replicas, that's the problem of solving regulated professions. So the fact is, we don't have that kind of problem when we talk about recognising qualifications within the EU if it's not about regulated professions. If it's regulated professions, there's a huge problem. Not even the Resolute Ministry, not even the Science Agency know how to refer to an adequate address where to address it. The first thing, I don't know, when it comes to lawyers, they have to pass the bar, when it comes to doctors, they have to go to the Ministry of Health and the Croatian medical chamber and people are just confused, walking, writing emails, calling, so they walk from address to address, and this bill doesn't solve it. I certainly appeal to the resolution ministry, because if they don't move, neither will this other ministry. Everyone together has to sit down, agree, I think we should go to the revision of the whole decision on regulated professions, we're in the 21st century, and even I don't think there's room on that list for certain professions that we think are regulated today. Not because I consider them low-level, but because it will allow people to have a better mobility of vertical and horizontal mobility both in the labour market and in the education system, and I do not think they should be in the list of regulated professions. But I repeat, if not only the Ministry of Science and Education does so, it is difficult for the other ministries to move in that sense, and I think that's what we need to deal with primarily in the field of foreign higher education qualifications. In addition to regulated professions, the problem of recognition outside the EU. Here, I also said in my first reading that we had a problem at a pulse hospital where the person who runs the Dermatology Clinic in KBC Sarajevo wanted to come work at a pulse hospital couldn't nostrate her degree. So we couldn't hire her, the hospital was without a dermatologist, we were running a clinic at KBC, we couldn't hire her because it just wasn't possible to nostrate a diploma. I think that this legislative proposal does not solve this problem either, and that with this legislative proposal we will not know what to do with those qualifications that are not covered by the ERIC/NARIC network, or which are outside the EU. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113374	Thank you, colleague Radolovic. We're moving on. Dear Representative Rajko Ostojic will speak on behalf of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113375	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, before me of course spoke of the law and, more or less, those of the opposition pointed to key matters. But I would like to point out before problems in the law, and this is what my colleague Radolovic said in the last sentence that we live in the 21st century. So we live in the 21st century, and we live in the interesting years of that century from covid to the problems in Ukraine and with all the repercussions and only four premises before the law. There were four industrial revolutions, and now we're in the fifth industrial revolution. All industrial revolutions were based exclusively on natural resources only means coal, steam, oil and others. Only the fourth and fifth ones are based on knowledge, knowledge. The fourth is ICT, and the fifth is the last ten years of nano technology. So they don't have resources, you don't dig up coal to make nano technology or build a computer, you dig up knowledge. And that is why this point today is terribly, terribly important for both Croatia and the world. The second prime minister is living in a large country called the EU where the basic setting is free flow of goods, services and people. And it's just like that. Okay. It is not all part of the acquis, for example health care is not part of the acquis, so it is likely that regulated health professions themselves are complicated to recognise, but we must allow free flow of goods, services because it is the basis of the EU. The third prime minister is that a fifth and some say as many as a quarter of our children are Croats or Europeans in the EU who are now enrolling in the first grade of a mere school in September is likely not to work at the end of their schooling. It's just going to disappear, or it's going to upgrade, it's going to stay different. There will be no blogs but roles, video blogs, or there will be something other than honor producers or something else. They will simply not work for what they are founded for, what they have been educated for, for which their parents or society in social countries such as Croatia paid for. And the fourth is simply a shift of labour from the east to the west that lasts well 50 years if not for hundreds of years, so from the east they're slowly heading west. I'll be speaking as a doctor for years every third doctor in America didn't finish medicine in America, not end up in Europe too hard and then in Japan. They work headhunting and then, of course, they come to Europe in Western Europe, those from Eastern Europe, the enlargement of the EU, and now they come from the Far East this moment from Ukraine. So these are four premises – knowledge first, second free flow of goods, services and thus knowledge. Third 20% of people won't do jobs that school and fourth no less important shift from east to west. The agencies are better, the scope of the agency's work is better defined by this law but there is still... There's a overlap. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This should be fully clear which agency does what without overlapping, without consent between them etc. And, of course, it's good that it's shortened from 60 to 45 days especially for those foreigners who, for example, are asylum seekers or ours, unfortunately, people who have now fled from Ukraine under Russian aggression. There's already six million of them. They saved people's heads, didn't ask for diplomas, didn't finish medicine, did they finish physics, did they finish math or law school, they saved heads. So they kind of need help. A fellow secretary of state spoke about regulated professions and mentioned three chambers that I think work very well and the Croatian Medical Chamber and the Croatian Chamber of Medical Sisters and the Croatian Medical Chamber have done what the Agency should do and the Agency has done standard operating procedures, so I think that a greater emphasis I would know that the state is afraid of the agency, that the state is afraid of the state, that it is afraid of the state because it is in the concept of every state and the Croatian state that it is afraid that some of its powers are given to an independent chamber. But it simply needs to be made possible especially in our health care to value not only knowledge, but knowledge, but also skills, skills. Today there was a state's attorney, I wasn't listening to her, but I watched her briefly on the video link, so she said in the case of a case that Olaf recognized, and it wasn't our state's SCOTT mistake, but Olaf corrected it. Health care is a loss of life. Someone else is going to do something else here, so health care is terribly important, not because I'm a doctor, but because health error is expensive, it's paid in human life. And that's why America works twice a year. Anyone who wants to nostrate their diploma twice a year has the right to come to America for three days is closed and running tests. Everyone at the same time, and those who, can't come to America, at the same time depend on time-space, do so at the American Embassy. For example, Croats went to Vienna. She's not in Zagreb. He's ten years old now. My son passed seven, eight years ago in Zagreb, and we, my generation, had to go to Vienna or America. But for the past few years, you can go to Zagreb, but at the same time, the Japanese, the Croat, the Egyptian, the South African, there are no dealers. You go in without a cell phone, no gagets, you write a pen, you get examined like you're going into an atomic shelter, and whoever lays down, lay down. Why? Because the Americans know that the mistake of a nurse's doctor is a loss of life. That's why I, as minister, was against, although I had problems of course that some qualifications such as nurses and doctors from, I remembered Kraegujevac or some similar places of the former Yugoslavia could not admit, I cannot. Prove that you were in Kragujevac or were, prove that you worked, prove that you did care, not that you did it from Zagreb on a phone call. Only then can he, regardless of the strike and everything that was going on, of course. The gallows were always measured by the number of nuclear heads, and today they are numbered by the opening of new jobs. Create new jobs. The creation of new jobs and therefore this Law is terribly important. Not now, to have these poor people from Ukraine come to us, poor people because they are unfortunately driven under a Russian boot, but let them immediately make their qualifications, their knowledge and skills this moment, if of course they want to go to Croatia. Anyway, I'd like to, and I'll probably do it in an individual debate, not likely but certainly because it's not about the law, ask that the Ministry of Science and Education cooperates more with the chambers because we have a problem with education. So, I come from KBC Zagreb from the Hospital for Internal Diseases that has more centres of excellence, so only my clinic than all the other KBCs. Both Dubrava and Split and Osijek are more at my clinic and people are coming to us, not just from the former Yugoslavia, people are coming to our educations from Europe, people from Asia are coming to us, people from the Middle East, here we are now, right here at my Egypt office. It, get the papers, make it possible, it's never ending the story. Do it with the chamber. The chamber, my colleague Luetic, is doing great. So try this, if we want to sell ourselves, under quotes, if we want to be the center, that we're the show room, so show hospital, as a transition to someone else, we have to keep those people, we have to allow them not only to be observants, so to watch my colleague operate, do endoscopy, UZV, but to actively take that machine, take that scalpel, take that endoscope, and work actively. That, of course, I'm going to ask you in an individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113376	Thank you, buddy. We're going to individual debates now, the first one is the representative of Ante Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113377	I would like to thank the esteemed vice president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state with the co-worker. I'm going to use this individual debate, we've talked a lot here about the provisions of the final bill itself, and everything that introduces the agency's statistics, how much time it takes for itself to recognise diplomas, especially those that go to automation and those related to work and continue schooling. I'd base myself on three examples, i.e. On three, we'll say, the proposal, 1, 2 positive and 1 relatively negative, which I mentioned in the first reading itself. First, a little bit about these positives, what I have opened through the very replica of the introduction to this debate and what the secretary of state has well noted and it is important to highlight because we have a large number of students from BiH right now, as many as 50% of the applications that go through the agency are just from BiH. In particular, we should stress the situation with the University of Mostar itself and that their diplomas are recognised by automation just for the sake of our country's agreement, as regards the University of Mostar, but normally all employees and students who come and by a large number of Croatians, so this is a very positive example, because this is the same base where we should draw up future staff and we should open the way for them to continue schooling at Croatian universities, but normally, tomorrow and for work. Another positive thing that I would like to mention here, and the doctor reminded me of that, which is, we must stress that at the University of Split, and that is a good example of the cooperation itself and the contracts of the two colleges, but normal and government themselves. Just at the 15.6. Split University, which will celebrate its anniversary and will mark itself at the School of Medicine in the main hall, the first 17 students from Germany will graduate from the Faculty of Medicine in Split, which is one of the top indicators Croatia can offer in science and education. That's what the doctor said, that every third doctor in America didn't finish medicine in America, but mostly in Europe, not to mention India and the rest. I will not mention all the benefits related to students from Germany, how much is one export product and one tourist product we have in Split, I will not mention the location of the Faculty of Medicine in Split which is de facto on the sea itself with the best conditions for studying, cafeterias, accommodations, etc. As far as this third example is concerned, it's a little bit more negative, I've talked about it in my first reading. I would like to say something about this by the State Secretary himself, and this is about that list of academic titles and names that we bring as the Republic of Croatia, specifically the Rector's Assembly, and where from Bologna, how long ago it was, and we're pulling certain shortcomings that we haven't corrected, now that we look at the final proposal of the Law concerning the recognition and evaluation of foreign educational qualifications, when we note that some time ago we discussed going to the global convention on the recognition of qualifications in higher education, unfortunately since 2015 we have introduced, i.e. We have introduced and we have a very old list that was not correct according to a number of students where a degree from the university, for example. in Zagreb and the Faculty of Economics evaluated, with I don't know, 180 ECTS points, the same study programme, the same curricula, all the same, while e.g. in Split, in that same economy, this professional study is valued with 120 ECTS points. I hope, that here are the amendments to the law tomorrow and the higher education, that a little bit will be squeezed by universities, but also by the Rector's Assembly that, however, such things when they are passed, that only the ministry will be consulted and that those injustices be corrected. So far, we haven't felt it because the labour market is what it is, but tomorrow if one of these people who had previously completed such study programmes at Croatian universities if they decide to study for life or continue will definitely have problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113378	Thank you, you have three replicas. The first one is a colleague of Shimičević's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113379	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bačić, here is the law passed in 2003, 2011 were changes, now in 2022 and certainly is the goal, the intensity of this law to regulate relations on the market, or that those who have their diplomas make them competitive here in Croatia. It was mentioned here that we have three professional agencies and that it's possible that there will be a duplication of work. If we're just making the law, we didn't predict the possibilities, and we removed you, and that duplication, then we didn't actually do anything. And I believe that, in fact, with this Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications, we will reach that level, we will have flow of both people and diploma, and we have cut the deadline from 60 to 45 days, and that will be enough. Great... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113380	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113381	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleague Simičević, I agree with you. I think all related and nomotechnical deficiencies have been seen by the ministry in two readings. You are specifically speaking for the article of the 6th and 7th Law that was definitely, was contradictory where, at one point, it is mentioned that the process of recognition is run by the Education and Education Agency, while Article 7 of that same law mentions about the recognition that the whole process is run by a school institution. That's what I think the State Secretary himself mentioned in the introduction. There have been these problems regarding the jurisdiction itself and the misunderstanding regarding the jurisdiction of who is doing what work, but here by this final proposal of the law, I believe this will be minimised and there will be no misunderstandings or problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113382	Thank you. Next replica, a colleague of the coat of arms, Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113383	Thank you, Vice President. I am pleased to see that in your presentation you mentioned the recognition of university diplomas especially when it comes to health care and social care. It's a very important topic because of the role of chambers that they have in which they write the theoretical part and write the practical part so that these ETSCs can arrive and then it's actually inconclusive in practice. Namely, it looks like this. A student in BiH who finished dentistry gets those papers and then the theoretical part still does, but the practical part has nowhere to do, so it extends to 3 years. This means that it is not available to the labour market, which means that the funding continues to be made by their parents, and I am glad that in its presentation, and then in my replica, the Secretary of State announced that these things would change as well. That's really necessary because in health care we know the lack of personnel.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113384	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113385	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleagues, Grba Bujević, and I agree with you especially when we talk about the health profession and all the shortcomings we have, when I say shortages, I mean under the very staff that have our clinical hospital centres of problems. With this bill of law, we're going to simplify some things, speed up. I also believe this law that we had before on vocational education puts a great emphasis on the labour market. We have to simply follow the trends, we have to look at what our market needs, we have to react faster and as just the ministry but also the agency or any other institution that participates in the decision-making or recognition process so that I believe that even students normally end up in, at the University of Mostar with whom we have excellent relations will have no problem with this and that as many such future employees as we will have in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113386	Thank you. And here's your last replica of my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113387	Thank you very much. So, first I congratulate my colleagues from the Faculty of Medicine in Split, great things, but I'll just remind you that he's a professor. Lab in 2001, so 20 and a few years ago he did a study in English at medical school and we raised a miracle, a miracle of people. But I remained really surprised with these ETSC points at the Faculty of Economics in Split for this you have full support and that the secretary of state must simply react, it is unacceptable. So, when we mention strangers, do not forget that the first foreigner dean was at the Faculty of Economics 20 years ago from a country mentioned by his colleague Bačić in India, and the Indians, as you know their native language, the second native language, if I may and may speak English, are part of the Commonwealth, a multi-human country, so it is generally unacceptable if we do not let fewer foreigners talk now about our BiH friends and colleagues, let alone edit the situation between Split and Zagreb. It's actually amazing, if that's true, I'm fragrant. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113388	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113389	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleague Ostojić, unfortunately the truth is, I believe the secretary of state will say something in the final address. I'm going to give you an example, I don't think I want to accuse anyone and anyone who was sitting in a rector's assembly at the time why the list of academic titles and names for Croatian universities, universities and universities was so made, I don't know how they valued it. I think it was a matter of speed and introduction of the Bologna Process. I'll take an example for you, you've got before that old expert study, for example. Management or Marketing at the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb, you have the same identical study at the Faculty of Economics in Split, in Split it is the same diploma worth 120 points and it is called an approach to the economy, and in Zagreb it is called the first-rounder has 180 points and full rights. There are some strange, strange decisions about some private schools, universities, some occupations where they got 180 ECTS points I don't know why, I believe the secretary of state knows a little more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113390	Thank you. We're moving on with individual debates. Next up, she is the distinguished representative of Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113391	Thank you very much. You mentioned something short of private, you shouldn't be afraid of private, it's the worst state monopoly. Privates are good, private are good and in health care, privates are good and in science, without privates there is no competition, there is no 4K. If you don't have the competition, you don't have the competence, you don't have the end of the quality, you stay nowhere. So, privates are good but the fact that Bacic said very nicely is that unfortunately there quality mechanisms are rarely different than in state and public services. The Croatian Qualifications Framework, therefore the List of Interests, should be abdated, adapted, it is insolent, funny, old. ... Doctor of science, someone mentioned Dr. Ante. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When I came to America, they first asked me when they saw what kind of doctor I was, and when they asked me to stay, they asked me, and seriously why did I doctor? Look, I was 30 and a few years old. I thought they were kidding me. What do you mean, why did I doctor? So he says why did you doctor? It's unnecessary if you're dealing with a clinic and that's what it is. We are unfortunately the Austro-Hungarian part of Bismarca, the whole of Europe and then of course you have both the Frankophilic and Anglo-Saxon states that are similar. If you don't want to do science, that doctorate is slow, but we certainly need to move, put on constant competitions that come from the center of competence, and here I see Eric as Italian, so from Italy a great center in Italy, Trieste. It's called now I can't remember, but I know it's one of the leading tech centers, I've been there a couple of times. They have few people with PhDs, and they ran a whole series of projects in Croatia but they don't... Because it's unnecessary. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have a lab, a computer, a microscope and it works... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, a whole series of things we just have to change in at least what we do, in this case health care if you're a clinician, you don't need a doctorate for a clinician. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You need it because you have to become a professor, so it has to be dealt with differently. That's a long time ago. So that's what changes are supposed to do for me, too. The chamber, the Croatian medical chamber is a great chamber. My colleague Lucic is doing very well, I don't know about other chambers. I mentioned it just before Ukraine. The Croatian medical chamber you saw the other day in the paper donated 350,000 kuna, tried to buy drugs, failed. I don't know if that's what the Croatian bar of law did. Maybe it is. I don't know if they built other chambers. I'll repeat, the chambers don't need to run away, the chambers are a good thing, the chambers are in our tradition and the chambers need to be able to help the state and this law, so as simple a procedure as possible. But the legitimate artis procedures for the recognition of foreign glorifications especially in our professions which, unfortunately, in addition to knowledge, must have no skills whatsoever. On that trail, therefore, there is a shift of this law, but of course there is still a need to abdicate or perhaps rather upgrade and renew. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113392	Thank you. You have one replica, Comrade Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113393	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleague. A brief comment, a brief replica. As a doctor and through college, but also through the clinic and the KBC, you've probably worked with nurses and doctors from various universities of various countries, foreigners from domestic countries. Where you felt the biggest difference in acquired competences or that you might have reported something or that you were unhappy with a certain group that ended up somewhere without Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113394	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113395	The most and most competitive country is the country with the most innovations that is America definitely. I was lucky to have worked in their leading centers and that's something that every young man should do. I tell every student to finish his medicine, finish his specialization, and then a year, two days to America and go back to Croatia, don't stay. But what's great, you mentioned it was the University of Mostar. I've been teaching college there for a few years, so a bona fide in good faith, no money, no hours, because I don't need a captain. I have my own captainate, quite enough. This Medical Faculty and KBC Mostar should be nurtured, respected, and allowed to be equal. Because if, for example, a Mostar employee wants to report to my Rebra competition, he doesn't get State Secretary points for work, because he didn't work in Croatia. He can work there for three years, get zero points. Well, that's discrimination. You worked in Mostar for three years, admit it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113396	Thank you. The next individual debate is the debate of distinguished representative Eric Fabianic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113397	Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the applicant. I only have one question that's actually a comment. Article 7 provides for what the person requesting the recognition of foreign education qualifications must contribute to the very application for recognition, namely his education, or the title he deserves abroad. It's my question, because I see that there's been a change between the first and second readings, although essentially there hasn't been a change, and that's the last indent in the second paragraph. I am really asking the clarification, because the first reading says that the applicant must, among other things, attach the right to citizenship except in the case of a stateless person. So, it can give a certificate of citizenship and it doesn't have to because it's not there. Here's the thing at the end of the day about... In the second reading, however, other species are added, so who can approach, so he must contribute if he is an asylumist, a foreigner under subsidiary protection and a foreigner under temporary protection and members of their families. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My question is why to recognise a diploma we need proof of citizenship because we don't really need it, because a person can be without citizenship in the previous indent, in the preceding indent it writes nicely that, and which is normal, that a person must be identified so that it is that name and last name as it says in the diploma, and that is without further ado, so you have to identify the person, that it is really about that person. With proof of nationality, that's not a condition, so we already have a condition that a person must be identified. Then I wonder why citizenship if it can still be without citizenship, and by the way, we're still going with further emulation. Namely, because then this may be the cause of something else, which is an analysis that can lead to certain discrimination, we may have Croatian citizens with some diplomats from our neighbouring country and they will only have a privileged line because they are citizens of a particular state. We may have strangers who are qualified, but they may be less likable to us, so we'll make it difficult for them to recognise their diploma. So I don't see why this, why this general criterion stands. Especially if science is like church, one and only universal. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113398	Thank you, buddy. You have one replica, colleague Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113399	I'm just a short, thank you very much, so colleague Fabianic. It's similar with jobs. So... I spoke in the last seconds. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] So the specialization rule is a public, transparent act, a sublegal act where the average rating, language knowledge, is a point of length of work. So in Zagreb in Croatia, for example, Zagreb is under 1st, but if it is a hill-mounted area or Sisak-Moslavina County,... The bank that was affected by the earthquake or on the islands, you get another factor of 0.5, and it's all great, people agree with it, but we have a situation so that a colleague who was a doctor of family medicine comes in, worked in an emergency room in Mostar, the Croat, has citizenship, he was the best student and worked down for 3 years, can start working right at my Rebr, but he can't get any points because it's not in the Regulation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nonsens. The rule changes within 24 hours, tonight the minister can change that, tonight. So is this. So if we want to, and we want to get good people, let's let them get into the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113400	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113401	In fact, I agree because this one, because we have people who know language, who are from another country, what you say, so it doesn't have to have Croatian citizenship, it's important to know Croatian and to know matter, and it's proven in a completely different way. Thank you. I think we have a lot of Croatian citizens who don't know Croatian, no, I mean, by the way. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113402	Thank you. You have no more replicas and we are now going to the final position on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113403	Thank you, dear Vice President. Once again, I welcome my colleagues and colleagues, the secretary of state, with an associate. I am glad that we have also been through the debate, that we have paid little attention to this subject, that we have opened some concrete cases, that we are not only this one, we have talked in general about the law but also some ambiguity that should be corrected, which we should be careful about and I am glad that we have put great focus with the debate itself on the students from BiH, specifically from the University of Mostar, because there have been some major changes in terms of comparing ourselves with other universities in BiH, and normally, that is the main focus, because most of us, not to say almost all the recognitions and all the requirements for recognition just coming from that area, a little bit from Serbia and Slovenia, so it is very important to end these differences in individual schools, individual programmes and to single out and normally, to say clearly what it means to be a student, a doctor, a doctor from the University of Mostar, which means to be with some other universities or qualifications that may have some major qualifications. So, I'm glad we've opened up some specific problems. It is important to emphasize, here, in the final address itself, some small and general things, what I have mentioned, after just before this Law itself regarding the recognition and evaluation of foreign educational qualifications, we had a global convention on the same subject. This is precisely the process of nostrification itself, I think it is much fairer and more quality, and I believe it will get more results that instead of nostrification, a process of recognising foreign educational qualifications with the purpose of employment or continuing education itself is being introduced. It is no longer a mere comparison of some study and educational programmes but a formal confirmation of the value of foreign educational qualifications so that it will be much simpler for something to be valued. We have seen and repeat the statistics of the Agency for Science and Higher Education, related to the requirements for the recognition of foreign educational qualifications itself. Something the secretary of state mentioned to us about asylum seekers and foreigners, well that we also opened this issue of Ukraine because I also think of the proximity, normal and culture and language, it is one pool of people who definitely have deficited professions and occupations such as medicine, hospitality, hotels, etc., we can draw and use very well. Normally, this is also the harmonisation of the previous directive, which we did not mention about the law itself, and it is good that certain shortcomings and ambiguities, in particular in these articles 6 and 7 relating to the responsibility itself in the process of recognition between the agency and certain and other school institutions, have been changed and that one is more transparent and that it is a clearer procedure so that it is likely that only the time of recognition will be shortened, so that persons who have such a request can continue their education or be employed this, as soon as possible in the Republic. The procedure for the evaluation of foreign educational qualifications itself is applied for the purpose of accessing the labour market in professions not included in the list of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia and the normal emphasis of the law itself says this law with which we started the day and today's discussion on vocational education and just an emphasis on the quality itself, and that we simply do not just crack any choice and comparison we recognize or do not recognise certain diplomas or encourage people into certain occupations. I believe that now we listen a little more and only to the labour market because it shows us that our education system, but also this speed of solving such administrative matters as the recognition of foreign qualifications cannot wait, we must definitely adapt to the market itself and make it accessible, simpler because we have nothing to fear from foreign students or foreign diplomas, but we need them at this point. So here's another final HDZ Club calling for you to support this final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113404	Thank you, colleague Bacic. And now, finally, on behalf of the motionor, at the end of this debate, State Secretary Ivica Sušak will address us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113405	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear MPs, I will try to be brief and include as many emphasis as possible from the debate as possible, both the individual and the name of the club of MPs. Instead of part of this final address, I will convince the experience of last week when the dean of one of the oldest universities of Zagreb University called me, he says they have a re-accreditation process means quality determination and that an foreign member of the commission asks him how many employees you have, and you know not how many employees in Croatia, so no, we have no data in the central body of the state administration responsible for the work of education in vertical and science. What does that tell us? Where we are with the internationalization process of higher education, I am primarily talking about higher education in terms of the workforce that enters our labour markets in Croatia and then members of their families come, enter primary schools as I live in St. Sunday, I think I mentioned it earlier in one of our discussions. Then come the largest number, come foreign citizens as labour force and then enter the primary school and get well involved in the education process, but we have a problem with higher education. We have a lot of dare to say closed and authoric, auto-academic academic community, which is also linked to the process of recognising foreign educational qualifications for the purpose of continuing education especially at higher education level. I think in the opening address I mentioned that the representative of the rectorial assembly who was on the commission insisted even on establishing unique minimum criteria for recognition for the purpose of continuing because we will have bad, bad students from the bad, and will enter, will enter slowly on our higher education system, etc., where we had opposing attitudes. Smaller universities and more operational wanted this simplified system therefore and had this dual system of recognition for the purpose of continuing education run by the agency or only a higher school, but we have a centralised approach for the parties or persons who want to implement recognition and possibly in reading these standards could be unclear until, to this second reading. The issue of regulated, unregulated professions is a question of quality assurance, skills, learning outcomes, knowledge etc., but it is a matter of national interest and of filling out insufficient labour, qualified by this from abroad and that is something that this high home should also be decided by, restoring ministries and the Ministry of Labour. And this definitely in this sense regulated profession in co-operation with chambers can be improved to cover the lack of particularly social care, but also this and biomedicine and health care. The issue of cost-relieving has been mentioned. So, we have cited this as an option given this Regulation, the question of recognising learning outcomes, parts of education or periods of education without the qualifications acquired especially to persons without documents or documents, and without citizenship, is a rather complicated procedure where unfortunately, European practice does not give sufficient standards and guidelines. What I must stress is that when, mentioning here, the possibility of recognition or diploma, or for accessing the US labour market, China is mentioned, no one crosses the signing of the agreement. We are simply bound by the application of the European Higher Education Area and the guidelines of quality standards in the ESG, etc. guidelines and these guidelines are also used in the evaluation and quality assurance of our higher education institutions. Dear fellow Minister Bačić mentioned issues of academic and professional titles. In a certain way, this law is for which, for this reform that has long been announced in a system of higher education and scientific activities and a simple body authorised under the Law on academic and professional title and academic degrees, it is a rectoral assembly made up of public university rectors that has not cleared that list to date. He has 80 pages, simply every university study programme, but also an expert at a different higher school ends up with a different professional or academic name, which causes a mockery in the public and simply leads to a problem. The question of different points or determining the ECTS points system for different studies is both a professional and university question of happiness or, unfortunately, the autonomy of universities and academic self-government where high schools independently determine teaching burdens by respecting those provisions, provisions on the minimum amount of ECTS points where, unfortunately, you also have situations that have been determined at some point in the arithmetic environment, the total amount of teaching burdens which is simply amazing. And considering this is the outcome of the teachings and skills that these students have acquired. There were many disputes over the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. We have one acceleration or accelerant when it comes to establishing standards of qualifications and standards of interest for individual occupations, especially for unregulated professions, where we will then be able to have a single national or national standard of quality in the field of higher education so that the same criteria are also the conditions for all high schools from human resources to infrastructure to scientific ones. This law would have opened up space or opened up the possibility of internationalising higher education. He definitely, we're here at the beginning, we have a big infrastructure, we have 9 public universities, 134 high school institutions, they're funded from the state budget. And they are directly or indirectly founded by the Republic of Croatia. We've got 1,000 graduates this year. Of these 1069% decided to continue their education at the higher school level, unlike the last state degree, where 75 percent of the graduates had decided. So, definitely before us is the period of internationalisation where we need to bring together different obstacles where we are uncompetitive for third-country students in view of obtaining visas or status of stay as well as on a health insurance system for foreign students where we have the most expensive health insurance for third-country students. Here, I'd kind of round it up. We've got a replica, so if I can.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113406	Yes, you have a few replicas. Let's take it in a row. Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113407	My dear secretary, I wouldn't really be replicating you, but I do have one question. When I was preparing to discuss this point, the first article I read writes that we should know the list of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia, so I went to the Agency for Science and Higher Education and there I found a database of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia. However, that base is very lame. There are very few occupations inside, or professions that are regulated inside. Is there another base that's expanded? You said there was a list of 80 pages, and there's maybe a hundred on this base.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113408	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113409	Thank you very much. So, I have said 80 pages that is a list of academic and professional names that brings or determines the Rector's Assembly of the Republic of Croatia as a result of studies that end our students, i.e. students. The issue of regulated professions is prescribed by the Law on regulated professions and professional recognition by the Ministry of Labour. They're also prescribed through the chambers. When it comes to us at all when a study of higher education, or university and which is in the field of regulated profession is conducted, then the Ministry of Health is most often consulted from the health care center if these are studies in the field of biomedicine. Therefore, several authorities of the state administration are participating. These are regulated professions for high school or higher education. You have a regulated profession in the field of secondary or vocational education and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113410	Thank you. Next replica of his colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113411	Thank you very much. So you said that how many foreigners are in our university that it's a small number. Of course it's an American invention, so they keep counting how much there is... as many Hispanics, African-Americans, as many people at the university with special needs, or persons with an earlier term with disabilities, as many other foreigners. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that's not bad, that's actually good. I was the deputy minister in Racan's government and we brought in the head of the clinic at Rebra Hrvat from the island which remains today and we brought in the Slovenian for neurology, and they chased him away. The Indian was the Dean of the Faculty of Economics back then. We can't if we don't open up, we can't. So, you don't need to slave for it, you have to respect our tradition, our language. Tomislav Mihaljevic is a cardiosurgeon, dean and director of Cleveland clinic, the largest, most powerful clinic in the world. My friend, a great friend, is five years younger than me. When would he become one? Tomislav Mihaljevic Doctor, Professor, Cardiosurgeon the world's largest clinic It's actual. [[/Intruder Voter: Time. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113412	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113413	The issue of incarceration or the autonomy of our academic community is conditioned of course by regulations. Our rules on conditions of choice include some additional criteria that are very difficult to meet foreign professors, a closed system of election of deans, rectors, the head of the department where you do not have the possibility of one professor from one Croatian university coming to another for the vice president, let alone someone from abroad. It is something that is simply subject to an academic critical debate and something that the public should answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113414	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113415	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State for the end, and I am pleased that you have responded to this request and regarding the list of academic professional names, titles. Here I appeal to you as Secretary of State and to the Minister at the next session of the Rector's Assembly to open the topic, preferably even to assist the Ministry and to assist the Rector's Assembly and make a revised and revised list of academic titles and titles and just bring it to the vote. That might be the fastest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113416	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113417	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, since the beginning of the term of office of Dr Radovan Fuchs, we have been to this day almost at all meetings of the Rector's Assembly, and we have repeatedly warned the Rector's Assembly of those provisions. In the plan for the normative activities of the ministry, I think that the amendment and addition of the Law on academic and professional title is envisaged in order to regulate the system of professional names differently, because you can look at it I think it is on the network pages of the Rector's Choir when you have an economic master who turns out to be not the same name regardless of his degree at the Faculty of Economics in Rijeka, Split, Osijek or Zagreb, which simply borders with the impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113418	The next replica of counterpart Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113419	I thank the esteemed Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I was going to ask you something else, but I'm going to use it to build on this. Well, you're actually aware of the problem. The problem at all is that the Rectorial Committee has, under its authority, the ability to issue this list and I will say very publicly, that I do not see the point at all why it would be in the control of the rectorial assembly, it could be in the intelligence or the restoring ministry or the Science and Higher Education Agency that actually implements the entire accreditation process. And where does Bačić get into trouble? I personally worked in the Office of Quality, there is a problem, that the Agency for Science and Higher Education is very good at handling us through the whole process of accreditation of the study programme, then the Ministry until issuing a certificate, but when it should be the rector's choir when it sees that the student programme permit was issued they simply forget to contact high schools in general to include their new study programme in the list of academic names and so ends that story to you that then a year, two, three days There's no name. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113420	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113421	Thank you very much. In view of the future changes in the legislative framework which will be regulated by the system of higher education and scientific activities definitely taking into account autonomy and academic self-government as we have observed here in the process of recognition for the purpose of continuing education, whether at pre-graduate or postgraduate level, we also have to be careful and it would be good for the Agency to be independent and regulatory then itself, independently and independently as an integral part of quality control, to establish a list of academic and professional names that are acquired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113422	Thank you. The next replica of Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113423	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, professional professions are vulnerable to injuries that we know because of the intention he's working with and what they're working with. Now, I've been writing to all the ministers for 10 years now, and now here you are, and you know what I'm going to say now, so I'm going to introduce myself to primary school, high school education, especially for this kind of profession, which is called first aid. As part of something, anything, but I think it would be very good. There are three states where we react immediately, we can't wait for an ambulance, so either we helped or we didn't help, and I think this one here I want to ask you to think about it one more time. A colleague of the Voice once agreed with me about it, so here we have a consensus here, but nicely introduce first aid, teach people to know it from primary school, it's unusually important, it saves a human life and it doesn't have a price.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113424	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113425	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In front of us parallelly as we go with full reform, the entire vertical education system from early and preschool to famous this proposal of the Law on Higher Education and Scientific Activity, I know that it is intensively working on the new text of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary school. And it's definitely an opportunity to write this through then, and the plan is to introduce a full-time course and reform this entire system of work in one shift so that definitely space has possibilities. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113426	And the last replica of my colleague, Dreven Buddinski, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113427	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Your Honor, I would like to ask you, perhaps this little Article 8, which means Article 8, what is being evaluated in the process of evaluating foreign education qualifications. The proposed solution will make a significant contribution to the quality of information for employers as the recognition decision in accordance with the applicable law states the rights of the holder, the qualification in the country in which it is acquired that most employers do not recognise in terms of the competence needed for the workplace. In this sense, the opinion that results from the evaluation of employers can be made an informed choice, so give me a little explanation of that part of the basic opinion that this informational, informed, informative response is also having. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113428	Here's the secretary of state. Explain a little.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113429	Thank you well-respected MPs, therefore informative choice me in parallel with this law, therefore, the Law on Higher Education and Scientific Activity is also at the public consultation where the basis for so-called. digital diploma and additional study ID, etc.... u, u, where employers with diplomats who issue Croatian higher schools would also have a complete range of information given the growing specialisation in professions and these qualifications so that they could have an informative choice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The opinion process will also be so in view of the requirement for evaluation for access to the labour market. Depending on which area this is intended to be employed, each employer will be able to see a significant difference in quality, in learning outcomes, in the skills mentioned by Professor. Ostojic, therefore, would simply do this information choice according to the procedures prescribed by the agencies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-06-01-0.u113430	Thank you, no more replicas. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I announce that tomorrow we begin our session at 9:30 with the Proposal for a Law on Facilitating the Use of Financial and Other Information for the Prevention, Disclosure, Research or Persecution of Major Crimes, First Reading, P.Z.E. Number 277. I'll see you tomorrow, and I wish you a pleasant rest of the day. Session interrupted at 18.01 hours.
