ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u102951	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Although one of the conclusions of the Croatian political representatives' extraordinary assembly gathered in HNS was that without changing electoral legislation and limited changes to the constitution, there was no exit to the unconstitutional illegal elections, the international representatives' views of BiH and the Republic of Croatia were that the election block would further agree on BiH relations, deepened the crisis as such, the most damaging to the few people, and these are Croats in BiH and also the blockades and failure to vote would undermine a hard-earned understanding of our position and our problems with the part of the international community. So, as the key stakeholders said, with domestic actors for us are the engagement of the Republic of Croatia and the thinking and attitude of the international community in Croatia about the problems of the Croats in BiH recently says a lot. It is good that key political actors here finally understand the Croats in BiH. It is not good that we have become a key point of dispute in the daily accounts, it will be talked about for sure, and I would like historians and analysts to say that after a huge sacrifice we have been brought into this situation, so it is about international representatives in BiH. So, BiH is partly against... international organisations, few are known and few are said to be the powers of the OHR High Representative who is their responsibility, whether there are biases and double standards. Through these few examples, I'm going to say that it certainly does. We have recently witnessed sanctioning by the US administration of Marine Chavara of the President of the Federation, so the weaker informed say something he has done would not have done if he hadn't been guilty. The man's term of office expired four years ago, no one has resolved him and re-named him, no responsibility for not forming federal institutions of government, cannot assume the authority of the people's homes, the House of Nations, say he did not want to appoint judges of the Federation Constitutional Court, otherwise for us a beating, beating institution that counts nine members of two of the constituent peoples and three of the others. The truth is that even those two Croats were never able to name them, always someone else, not the Croatian club, but someone else suggested them. That Serbs are not interested, so the Bosniaks have named all nine so far. And that's an explanation. However, we wonder why he is never sanctioned, for example, responsible for not implementing the Mostar Agreement, which allowed the elections to be held in Mostar and created an obligation to elect electoral legislation? Why is no one ever sanctioned that respects the decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH, for example when constitutionality is mentioned if the BiH Constitutional Court... Ali is Izetbegovic in 2000. concluded that constitutionality is a fundamentally sublime principle of the Constitution of BiH being or the spirit of the Dayton Peace Agreement? Why not sanction the usurpators of Croatian positions if the constitutional court of the same constitutional court has established a clear and unequivocally pointed out and ordered the provision of legitimate representation of constituent peoples in the institutions that are intended for this purpose under the constitution? The constitutional decision says that the government in BiH does not only belong to the citizens as advocated by the supporters of unitarianism but also to the constituent peoples whom the BiH Constitution guarantees equality and equal opportunities for the election of its representatives. The general principle of democracy is the right to a democratic decision that is achieved by legitimate political representations that must be based on democratic elections. Didn't the usurpers of Croatian positions deserve to be sanctioned by the basis of non-compliance with the constitution? Also why, for example, does the High Representative in BiH often intervene and impose certain legal solutions on which there is opposition within political actors in BiH and some not? And so many of those questions. Although the official campaign in BiH doesn't begin for just two months of fierce rhetoric, it is called on Bosniaks to put a sufficient number of Croats on their lists because Croatian positions are neither Ćovic's or Zagreb's, they are calling on Bosniaks to vote for two one for BiH, so two Bosniak members, one Serbian and similar rhetoric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103041	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the honourable representative of Anka Mrak Taritaš will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103042	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, these days as they say, we cook at temperatures above 30 degrees in all Croatia. Those who are at sea or by rivers and lakes there find refreshment, and the rest of us are looking for a shadow or a little breeze. However, the weather is going quickly and in a few months the summer heat will be only faded memories, and we will be welcomed first by thicker clothes and shoes, and then by problems with heating. So what do we do? A warm autumn awaits us politically, and the coming winter of energy could be long and cold not because of climate and climate change but because of the war in Ukraine and all its consequences. What's certain is that the prices of gas are wild. Yesterday, on European markets, the gas again significantly accumulated, 8% compared to the day before. Gas dealers are in fear of supply because Gazprom has reduced North Stream 1 gas deliveries by 60% over the service and delay of the pumps that Siemens has sent to a remont in Canada in recent weeks, and Canada has blocked them for sanctions on Russia. Worse, the closure of the pipeline for maintenance was announced for July 11th. It should take 10 days, but how it really will be and when the gas will start and in what quantities no one actually knows. The additional problem also creates a strike of oil workers in Norway, as well as technical and other problems with LNG quantities that can be delivered from the US and Canada. All this together creates uncertainty, and uncertainty raises prices for legitimate reasons, but also because of speculation and speculators who use such situations for extreme extra profits. The government granted HEP a billion-euro debt for the supply of energy, including gas that is being prepared in our warehouses, Koli. As Koli on her web site daily announces the warehouse's filling, the warehouse on yesterday was filled only 34%, less than at the same time last year, therefore weaker filling than at the same time last year when the war in Ukraine, that someone said people would have declared it abnormal. The European Commission's recommendation is that by 1 November we should be at 90% of the fill, if we're going to succeed, let's be honest, we don't know. For now, we are all convinced that the charge is going according to plan, but what happens if Russia closes the pipe to the end, which if those of whom are coming to Europe LNG are unable to deliver as much as we all need it or if prices rise to some unprecedented heights, we have no answers to these issues, and the development of the situation worries. When there's not enough water and wind, and there isn't enough at the moment, our electricity production is resting, it's starting to depend on gas. And in all this madness here we are left without the Minister of Finance, about the new we don't know much at this point except that the obviously verified party code. There is no commission, board of directors, board of directors or similar bodies in which the government must appoint you without being appointed in the last few years. Will he be able to cope with the consequences of the energy crisis, the war in Ukraine, the covida, along with his own colleagues, for example. Willy Berosch, who every two months needs a new five billion to cover his debts, we'll see about that. What we now know is that your debts are successfully covered, which is, of course, much easier if you have interest on a 1.13% loan from which, in 2008, housing loans for young people with a favourable rate cost up to 7%. The new finance minister was obviously not concerned with the risk of the country, nor the cost of the source of the funds of banks, nor regulatory costs, nor the cost of business, nor any of what is interpreted as a reason why we pay twice as much interest as in other countries. Someone in the bank early realized that it was a perspective, for the interests of the bank the assessment was obviously excellent, and for the interests of the citizens as in that scene from "Balkan spy", if they remember us, and if they do nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103191	We will now stop by this point given that one hour has passed, so we will go to the presentation of the position on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives and the first one, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, will speak to the esteemed representative of Nino Rasudiæ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103192	My colleagues and fellow MPs, last night at 23:00 and 40 minutes in that term, which is colloktically referred to as the term for films of explicit content, and in a term in which the most important debates are being held in Parliament, so at that time around midnight, a television with a national concession announced the breaking news that Minister Zdravko Maric, according to many of the most popular, most capable minister in the government, Andrej Plenkovic, is leaving office. He left abruptly and strangely. It would normally be one Monday morning after the government's meeting that Plenkovic and Maric go to a press conference and announce that the minister is leaving and that it is nice to explain to the public why in this situation galloping inflation, ahead of the introduction of a euro that will definitely boost that inflation, the finance minister is leaving. This news comes in late, small hours and sees miracles in small hours already prepared and replaced – Mr. Primorac. I was a little surprised, because I expected to offer Mr. Curaja first as he used to in the HDZ majority lately, so if Mr. Curaj won't or can't, or if Hrebak and Cacic have something against then looking for the next person. However, the next minister was already ready. What can we from the opposition think? I don't know if Grmoya has any FBI data, but we ordinary mortals still don't know anything. We can see if any more members of the ruling coalition know, however, Ratimir Cacic says he is found. He adds that Plenkovic may be offended by it. Dario Hrebac, however, says he is surprised, but after a night of sleep it could be noticed that this one has been forgiven for weeks. Always after a merciless, sudden event, we spin the movie backwards. I didn't know much from this, but at least I found out that Hrebac could have slept, he says, after a night's sleep. He was asleep, I don't know if they stayed the way you slept. Minister Maric was voiced as a major communicator, a gentle lamb, the most capable minister. However, if you scratch a little beneath the surface, you can see that that was not the case. Thanks to media support, an impression has been made in the Croatian public that it is the world's largest financial expert, that no one in Croatia knows how to draw up a budget except for him. Those who liked to talk about the private sector most praised him. At the end when you look where he worked in the private sector and nowhere, only in Agrokor. And in Agrokor, he worked so that for years he was one of the most important directors, he had no idea how black a hole occurs under Agrokor. So much for ability. The affairs went down one by one. 2010. Maric, as state secretary, receives a preferential loan from the Croatian Post Office, owned by the chairman of the Supervisory Board. And about Agrokor not to talk, and the question is, did he know about it a year earlier? Otherwise, I will remind you that he survived then thanks to the enlightenment of Tomislav Sauche after Paul, no such enlightenment was seen after his journey to Damascus. Imagine that Saucha Milanović, a friend of SDP's, during the night, realized that you from HDZ are the best team in the world and that you and your minister should support that miracle theological event. Then the Committee for Conflict of Interest ruled him on a few occasions in 2020, so he credited HABOR to the company of a friend Josip Stojanovic Joly, that's the one who wore him on his shoulders in Russia. Last time my dad wore my shoulders was three years old. I don't know if after a business dinner, Jolly raised Maric and burped him, and this one lasts. Well then friendships and summers, yacht Blaž Pavicic, then a boat of some Krmek, then a luxury hotel on Mali Losinj with a lion's discount, etc., etc. But it all comes to an end why this happened soon we'll find out that it's easy for you, it's not. What's gonna happen to him? Where else does the cousin say the song? Blinded ships drove you on four sides, you were really consistent. Will he become a skipper to these entrepreneurs after spending so much time on ships and yachts? Are they going to say maybe they'll go to the ADRIS, but not to jinx the ADRIS the only big company private in which he worked in his life was Agrokor we saw how he passed Agrokor he had no idea. Maybe he'll take a vacation, see if there's any more room in the CNB to rest like Coric, and maybe you'll bring him back to the assembly as Milosevic, and then wait for immunity to be removed. Where's the next of kin?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103271	Thank you, no, no, everything's fine. Now, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, the esteemed representative, Urša Raukar Gamulin, will speak. I'm drawing attention that unfortunately it's something, the information isn't working, so this one's going to be this one. Okay, and there's the same machine. [[I'll trust the machine.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103272	Thank you. So today, everyone's talking about Maric, and I'll talk about culture. Well, now I'm lost, just a little bit, here it is. So once upon a time there was a RadioTelevision Zagreb was known as the best and most professional component of the JRT, the Yugoslav RadioTelevision. Now, here's what happened to me, so yes, I lost my speech. May I have a break, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103273	I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103274	I can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103275	It's not for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103276	Yeah, yeah, yeah, she's nothing. You've confused me so much with this time measurement that then, I won't, so here it was the best component of JRT, and then the Croatian Radio Television HRT came and it started falling unconstitutional and irreparable. All the programs suffered, many top professionals went, decreased their own production, and in some sectors almost disappeared, but the only production, one production survived despite everything, is the Croatian Radio Drama Programme. He survived despite the shocks and despite the reduction of programming time to three radio programs. The drama program of Croatian Radio tireless, creative authors, performers produced unstoppablely despite all the restrictions of new and new works that have won high awards at various world and domestic festivals for decades, Prix Marulić, Ex Ekvo, Prix Italy, BBC words, New York Radio words, so the Croatian Radio drama programme is certainly the most awarded sector of Croatian radio television. The program has become part of an educational curricula that has special attention to children's program. The program is that radio waves bring theatre and drama literature to the top dramatic art creation of both writers and directors, actors and composers in our areas where theatres are not available. The program is irreplaceable for people with disabilities, impaired and blind. It is a program that listens and loves many listeners of Croatian Radio. The programme is universal, independent, excellent, innovative, diversely responsible to the public, so it has all the values that are represented and promoted under Article 10 of the Treaty on Programme Obligations and Goals between the Government, HR and HRT. So far, the drama programme has had 7% representation, but according to a new contract with 7 it fell to 4 and only 3 programs that are not heard in the entire Republic of Croatia, so the obligation is only 4% on a radio frequency that is not heard throughout Croatia. They're trying to convince us that in those 30% not covered by the new contract, there will certainly be room for percentages for the drama program, they haven't convinced us because for years and 10 years we've been witnessing a reduction in the space for the production of the drama programme and broadcasting. The answer that the drama program does not move but is not only shown in percentages is a trick, it is only the percentages that protect this content from the self-will of editors who do not want to have it in the program because without guaranteed percentages of the contract any editor can freely lift the emissions of the drama programme on programme 1 and 2 and completely disable the production of dramatic content. I am using the opportunity, today the Minister is in the Assembly, we call on her to advocate the survival of the Croatian Radio Drama Programme, to return the contract not only to the previous 7% but to at least increase by 1 to 2% because the Croatian Radio drama programme is indeed a bright point from HRT and deserves protection as a monument of culture and gain the opportunity to further produce and create new intriguing works of art and enrich our unique cultural offer and production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103361	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns will speak the honourable representative Marijan Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103362	Dear Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. 19 October 2016 Andrej Plenkovic became president of the government of the Republic of Croatia, in which month he will be 6 years old. And in these six years, under the age of six, Andrej Plenkovic is probably a European record player of one thing at a time, which is after a change of ministers. Some stayed for only a few months, literally smuggled through the Croatian government, each for several years. Some of them left after the break-up of the HDZ-Most coalition, some of them left because of the departure of some other function, and some of them, which is the biggest number precisely because of the suspicion of certain corrupt actions, so I'm going to count them in a row, hope I don't leave anyone behind. Vlaho Orepić, Ante Šprlje, Slaven Dobrović, Ivan Kovačić, Pavo Barišić, Davor Ivo Stier, Marija Pejcinović Burić, Martina Dalic, Lovro Kuščević, Goran Marić, Gabriela Žalac, Tomislav Tolušić, Nada Murganić, Milan Kujundzic, Damir Krstičević, Damir Horvat, Boris Miloševic, Josip Aladrović, Tomislav Ćorić, Zdravko Marić, who resigned in late evening and left the Croatian government. For many of these, no one even shed tears in the Croatian public because some of them did not deserve it, and some of them will likely end up behind bars. Yesterday, however, the government was left by perhaps one of the best-quality ministers and probably the strongest link in the Croatian government, which is Zdravko Maric, one of the few who was truly up to his task, unfortunately without any explanation. And the question arises how much more is this government strong when that government leaves the strongest link? I'll just finish this off with one sentence, turn off the light and roll the cables.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103474	Thank you very much. We're going to have one more free speech right now, and then I'm going to give it, which we're going to measure this by phone time, and then we're going to take a 15 minute break so that the information can fix what's messed up. Here, and now, on behalf of the Homeland Movement, the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club will speak to the esteemed representative of Ante Prkacin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103475	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Sitting there waiting and thinking whether or not I'm going to speak at all, I have a joke on my mind that's a late professor. Tomislav Vladan, a prominent intellectual and knowledgeer of everything and told everything about Moya and his trilem. So from that joke, I'm only interested in the trilem because I first thought about talking about Minister Maric, the successful one, they say to a successful minister, a talented and capable man, that's not doubtful. However, I wanted to reprimand him even though it is not nice when a man leaves, so Minister Maric filled the state budget by robbing Croatian or, because he was extremely cruel to Croatian hairdressers, the owners of cafes, small crafts, did not dare to have his fairs led by that coward, black Andrija Mikulić, as he was called, did not know what else to do with him, so they put him there, so those seeds must be removed from the back of small Croatian entrepreneurs to fill the state budget, but also to settle their needs because their wishes and ambitions are very large. It was not entered into the trade chains, nor was it touched by international financial institutions that amounted to capital from Croatia but rather to the cowardly Croatian people. Secondly, Mrs. Crescent. Ursha Raukar, Raukar, did I say well, I would have liked to see this bullet perform yesterday when she spoke of migrants again, again, and again, she came to terms with the fate of those dear good and unhappy from Pakistan, Afghanistan, Morocco and I don't know where she came from, from Asian African countries, so they are compared to the Ukrainians, unfortunately because we Ukrainians treat the Ukrainians differently than they are, so can we also treat those whose faces we see primarily hatred and aggression coming from 95% of the military men and this unfortunate people who are from the war and misery that came from the problem of war and misery? There's another one, because there's going to be a replica of these, these, as they're called, these hidden replicas, so. Something very interesting, find me a Croatian soldier whether it belongs to Hos, whether it belongs to ZNG and the Croatian police to complain about the fate of Afghan refugees, over their fate those who cheered for Serbs and Yugoslavs while we fought them because they did not have the courage to commit themselves as they would be determined to be born a new Josip Broz Tito, and to take them to the Croatian state. They didn't have the courage, so now they're moaning over fate because they're conscious. Listen, you freak, I'm not this to anyone, as much as God disfigured you physically, and your head is. [[/Step out of the bench: Shame on you, shame on you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103476	Like this, like this, enough of that now, first...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103477	I was ashamed, so I know that both my children and grandchildren.../The speaker has been disfellowshipped....
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103478	Please, comrade Prickin, slowly, you're getting a warning, you can't talk like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103479	I don't want any more, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103480	You get a warning from a colleague of Raukar, you can't talk like that, you can't yell at others from anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103481	Shame on me, because I know my children and grandchildren are 10-15 years old. They must be beaten here. I, I passed the war, I passed the war as a Croatian soldier, I was not a fan of those who destroyed Croatia. So none of the Croatian soldiers wore any uniform, not regretting their fate, but regretting those who were the most interesting worshipers of the character and the works of Joseph Broz Tito, who, for every civilian killed who crossed the border, rewarded the person who did so, please, rewarded the person who did so, whether she, therefore, could defend herself with firearms, and this one must not be defended with a rubber stick, which in her mind I asked them last time 10 months ago. Nothing has changed in the heads but changed the state, there was a state that was the negator of all Croatians and they loved that state, and now the Croatian state has come and they don't like it. The third is Mr. Barbaric, Mr. Barbaric, what you said here even though you should have said a little more articulated, it is not, about that story for HS, but what the minister has to explain in Europe, Europe must know what is going on in BiH, Europe must know that there is no assumption for the civil state in BiH, and it will know as I said twice, I will repeat the third time. Time's running out, please. [[Intruder: Time, thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103482	Thank you. Uh, the esteemed representative Raukar-Gamulin has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103483	He's hurt. 283, 238, excuse me, insult. [[I mean, except for what I've already issued a warning.]] No demeaning, insulting parliamentary representatives So... [[Intruder: That's why I gave my colleague's warning.]] To say that someone [[Come on, I suggest you...]] Just give me, you can't, Mr. Chairman, if anyone claims I'm the one who stood up for it. [[I'm not gonna have to give you a warning, either.]] for unaccompanied children [[Intruder: Respected, post, respected.]] fan of those who destroyed Croatia in war [[Intruder: colleagues of Raukar.]] It's inadmissible. [[Intruder: Please.]] No G He's the only one entitled to the Homeland War. [[Intruder: colleagues of Raukar.]] There are other defenders. [[Intruder: I gave my colleagues a warning.]] And my husband was a defender in the Croatian war. Who has the right to tell me that I was on the side of the destroyer of Croatia? That doesn't have anyone's right, so give me 500 warnings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103484	My colleagues, Raukar. Uh, I'm a fellow impertinent, so I gave a warning. Uh, I'm not gonna give you a warning right now, third warning, because that would mean I'm taking your word for it. I don't know if you're aware of that, do you? Uh, I told you nicely, I think it's quite clear how I'm running this session and that I want such qualifications, such conversations among parliamentary deputies don't happen here. So, I mean, it seems to me like the procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I'm asking us all to stick to all the Rules of Procedure, right? Honorable representative Oreskovic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure in... Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103485	Thank you. He's been injured. 238 indent 3 which the representative says during the debate shall not interfere with his or her incursions or otherwise interfere with the speaker. In this case, you, Mr. Reiner, have done this violation of the Rules of Procedure because Mrs. Reiner is a... Raukar had the right to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure which concerned insults and insults, and the rest of us should have also raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure and we have according to the Rules of Procedure on this right despite the fact that you have already given notice because it is really not appropriate to listen to such words as a freak, from an HS payphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103486	Okay. You're out of time. I gave that warning, I don't see what else could be done, what else could I have done and what could be done at all. I made my point very clearly this, therefore, this intervention of yours was completely unnecessary, wasn't it? On behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Michel Jakic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103588	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, good day, nice greeting to everyone. Today we will hear very finely intensified sentences that will need to show stability, security, credibility just how much they prefer bureaucrats in Brussels with comments that today we only have another usual day in the office because it is all normal in business. But what is certain is that this is not one normal work in the office, that this is not normal business because in the course of huge inflationary pressures on Croatian citizens, the Croatian economy is under way in the course of a huge international crisis in Ukraine that has become and becomes a major economic crisis, we are being run away from the government by the vice-president for the economy, the finance minister, according to public opinion studies by one of the most popular ministers in the same government. So, in the course of the season, when the season is to be prepared, to sum up what the financial effects of this season will be, to make fun of the autumn, the winter of the warm season, for everything that will hit us in the fall and through a number of other costs to spill over to us Zdravko Maric literally flees from the government. There are no peaceful, stable, credible sentences that the Prime Minister can pack up this 19 departure from his governments as something normal, and there are no such sentences that coalition partners will be able to unwittingly defend what is happening today in this country. We don't really expect anything from these coalition partners, it's obvious that in all these changes within the government, the only thing they've lost besides voters is face. On the other hand, they obviously got a lot for themselves and their tiny, small party interests. Zdravko Maric is definitely a minister who will remain remembered as a professional, pleasant and correct communication, well-read professional terminology and definitely proved to be one of the brighter points of this government. But let's not forget, too, that he also had his own affairs as the secretary of state credit that he received until the first big affair and rocking of the government when he survived the Agrokor crisis in this high house, when the first chips slipped out of the bushes and saved him and the government of Andrej Plenkovic, until the summer on the yacht, to the loan of a friend Jolly until this last summer in Lošinj, where there was a big misunderstanding that I paid for a much cheaper room, and here it ended perhaps in the most expensive. These affairs are already past us and it won't really mean anything anymore because a man is leaving. But what we resent most as the SDP Club is the heavy neoliberal policies that have clearly blended in with the government's political course. He never found enough courage to say that in Croatia, the work will no longer be taxed, we will not destroy the working class and the working people but we will finally tax the rich more strongly. He never said he would no longer allow income tax and dividend tax in Croatia to be lower than in the United States, which is the cradle of capitalism. 'Cause he's gonna run away and the capital's not gonna be there. Well, we had to admit once that neither in telecoms nor in banks, nor in energy, we don't actually have Croatian capital anymore. Who are we protecting? Foreign banks representing profits from Croatia, foreign trade chains which have not reduced the price of citizens to pfening or lip after all VAT withdrawals. We're protecting Ina MOL where half a billion kunas of dividends have gone to Hungary these days. That they may have nine kunas the price of fuel, and that we may be saved if we have 16 [[Intruder: Thank you.]] But I'm still 30. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103589	No, unfortunately, the information problem one showed up so little. It works a little bit, it doesn't work no, no, we measured time with a stopwatch. [[Then give me two sentences.]] All right, you can go ahead and finish your sentence. [[But I didn't know.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103590	So what we expect from the new minister we will definitely not support is to finally respond whether there is courage to tax labour less, to finally tax large capital, but also to finally lead a clear, concise, courageous policy of protecting Croatian interests both in the energy sector and in the food sector, and not to watch these films that we watch back a few years ago lately most often directed by Hungary. Thank you very much. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103710	On behalf of the IDS Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Marin Lerotić, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u103711	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues today I planned to talk about Muzil one pulse pearl that makes up even a fifth of Pula and the problem of not exploiting state land that collapses every day more and more and more and more every day. And solving such problems can definitely generate revenue into a state budget that suffers a major deficit. However, a new earthquake occurred in Croatia this time on the political scene. And this very important one, if not the most important resort yesterday, left Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric. The news echoed like a bomb yesterday, which is not unexpected because media often said it was one of the most popular ministers. He goes to shock and surprise the public in moments when Croatia prepares for serious steps and challenges. Because for some time now, we have witnessed large inflations of 11% of these significant gatherings, especially basic supplies that our citizens use on a daily basis. And this unsustainable growth for individual needs and over 30% is almost unsustainable for the most vulnerable groups. In addition, there is a collection of energy products whose prices have been literally rampant for some time now. And as I have, on many occasions, raised the question of how much our citizens can endure such a rise in prices financially and anxiously and with all their anxiety about the coming autumn and winter. And as I mentioned, we are in really challenging times, in the course of the tourist season, the serious global crisis, Croatia's entry into the euro zone and Schengen, ahead of a very uncertain autumn and winter ahead of us. It's hard and ungrateful to even say and predict what's waiting for us in the coming months, but I think it's already clear that we're waiting for months of inflation, and potentially new crises and recessions. And therefore the public deserves and demands to know what these reasons are for leaving now already the second vice-president of the government in a little over 2 months. At this point, we do not know the details of the departure, and I think that our citizens should know what it is and precisely because it is not only the Minister who has been in charge for six years but also the Deputy Prime Minister. In addition, we can remember that Minister Maric successfully led a number of budgetary acrobatics during the pandemic crisis, and for these very reasons, the public deserves to know the answers why the minister is known as one of the most able to leave. And we already have the name and last name of the new minister who not only comes at a difficult time but has no real insight into the ministry, but also in other ministries, and above all, it is a question of how long it will take him to catch the ends because it is normal and to expect, of course, that he will need a reasonable period of time to get full insight into the state but also the action and way of functioning of the resort that takes over. And that's precisely why it's hard to believe that his arrival will bring security and stability and that's quite worrying about this, as I've already stated in challenging times. Unfortunately, all we have left is hope for the best. And what follows us cannot be known because given how often our government ministers change, the question is how long this new minister will be and who will come next.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117352	All right, good afternoon, all the respected MPs and MPs. I would like to inform you that today we will discuss the points of the two plans today, and this is a proposal to raise the issue of trust with Professor Dr. In other words, if we don't finish the first point by 15.00 hours, the debate will end and continue after the second point's debate is completed. So the second point goes necessarily in three hours. The first item of the agenda today is: - Final proposal of the Law on Cultural Councils and the financing of public needs in culture, second reading, P.Z. No. 274 And amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. For your information, this is Bill No. 172, sorry, 274, sorry, bill 274. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? With us is the Minister of Culture and Media Mrs Nina Obulen Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117353	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. In front of you is the Final Proposal for a Law on Cultural Councils and the financing of public needs in culture. Let me first remind you of the most important elements of this law we talked about and when the law was discussed in the first reading, and I will inform you, of course, of the amendments that we have made to this law between the first and second readings based on the debate in this high house. So it's a law that unites the three laws so far, the Law on Finance, the Law on Cultural Councils and the Law on the Management of Public Institutions in Culture that have experienced many amendments over the years, one large part of the provisions was no longer in force, but it's about topics that actually intertwine, and therefore we decided to make one law that unites all these segments, so also funding and governance, and decision-making. The law was carried out on the basis of an analysis which was also presented in the introductory part, which included both actions and decision-making at national level as well as actions and decision-making at local and regional levels. And let me briefly express the most important elements or remind you of the most important elements of this law. So, according to today's need to develop cultural activities, public needs in culture are defined, so not only what we traditionally and classically meant under public needs, so that segment relating to certain activities is archival, museum, library, etc. but also on those other topics which have become so inevitable in cultural policies for the past 20 years, so the question of accessibility, access, participation, diversity, digitisation, etc. This law has several important elements, first of all, I would say something about public calls, so we keep the model of public calls to finance public needs in culture, but we have seen an analysis of the actions, especially I have to say here local self-government that unfortunately public calls were known for the current year only in that year, and that there were problems that the results of the funding were being published with great lags and in this sense for the first time we have introduced certain deadlines into the law, and that is also the deadlines until the latest something has to be done. Therefore, a tender for the following year must be opened by 1 October at the latest, at least 30 days and results must be published no later than 60 days after the adoption of the budget of the unit of local self-government. We believe this will contribute to the creation of security among cultural workers because it is very difficult to work if you have no knowledge of what resources you will be granted. In this regard, we also introduced a legal possibility and specified years of funding. The law also makes an exception to these provisions in cases of urgency, haste or certain disasters when emergency measures are being carried out, and for the past two years we have been through such disasters and Covid for cultural activity, and the earthquake for cultural heritage has been asked of us to react ad hoc and beyond schedules. What is very important I would like to mention Article 9 where we define what is what public needs in culture, so with wages, authorial and artistic fees, means of work, funds for the purchase of buildings, funds for programmes and projects, etc., mobility, international co-operation. We therefore refer to all donors who are all segments of artistic and cultural action that need to be financed and included in these competitions at local and regional levels. We define the financing of public institutions in culture. So, as they are determined, how they are financed, and here I would particularly point out in Article 11(4) where we point out that the institution's own income can be used exclusively to develop the activities of the institution that has achieved them. Here, of course, we think of those cities and counties that are in the treasury which unfortunately had examples that they were able to retain their own funds of an institution that would be found at, in the treasure that we consider to be demotive for directors and at all for employees who are trying to provide these additional funds and that it is not correct that such funds are then used for other purposes. As an important point in Article 14, we discussed it a lot in the first reading, which speaks of the assignment of space for work. Therefore, the problem has been observed that there is no systematic approach to assigning space to work both for public action and for studios or for the work of artists. In fact, this article provides that, at national level or at the level of units of local and regional self-government, certain spaces can be defined as spaces that will be given for cultural purposes, to carry out cultural activities, and then for such premises with this purpose, tenders are made. I also explained in my first reading very hard to compete with a bookstore in the city center, with some coffee shop or bookshop, and I believe that we will all agree that it is important that in the centers of our cities there are such spaces where culture is actually created and distributed. The law has one part to do with the establishment and role of cultural councils. He said he would upgrade the provisions so far and perhaps explain some of the actions we've had so far. Council activities are defined, the ministry responsible for culture is governed by which councils are established, the number of council members. We have arranged two topics that I consider quite significant in relation to the public and the cultural community, which is a matter of resolving council members before the end of time. So, what are these situations when a council member can be resolved and we've also more precisely arranged a conflict of interest with what I said and in the first reading, we're always in the field of culture and art on such an ice when we talk about a conflict of interest because it's important that in the bodies that decide to be the ones who are productive and who are the best, and then it's impossible that they don't have any involvement in the cultural sector. So we have introduced certain elements, in particular by stressing the signing of a declaration of impartiality and confidentiality, a statement of lack of conflict of interest where each member of the council will clearly taxively state with which projects, institutions, programmes in a particular business or other creative relationship is possible, which will ensure that this entire allocation of funds is more transparent. We also organise the work of the National Council for Culture and the issue of decision-making on financial resources. So, deadlines, as I have already said earlier, for the decision-making deadlines, in particular, I point out that these 60 days since the date of the public call, it is really very important and I appeal from this place to all local and regional self-government representatives to understand how important it is for the up-to-date publication of the results of competitions for overall survival in the cultural sector in particular for those acting on an independent stage. The way in which the financing contract is concluded shall be arranged. It is also regulated, as I have initially said, multi-annual funding as well as mechanisms when and under what conditions this multi-annual financing contract can be terminated if some unforeseen problems arise in the budget of the grantors. Another article that is important to us might go under the radar, Article 34, where we introduce a commitment to the units of local and regional self-government to report to the ministry within 30 days of the adoption of the annual report on the implementation of the budget. Unfortunately, I have to say, no matter how many decades the ministry has been conducting such a survey on the financing of public needs in culture, a large number of local self-government units are either not responding to it or giving half the data which then makes it impossible for us to give the right picture of funding in our analytical reports, and now we are introducing it as a provision in the law. One important part concerns the establishment and management of cultural institutions. I note this law refers to those institutions which are not governed by special law, so we special law regulate archives, libraries, museums and theatres, and here we have more precisely defined the activities of the cultural centre, but possibly other institutions that are not governed by these special laws. In this part, we have introduced a series of amendments or additions based on the first reading debates, you have asked for this as representatives and clubs, so as to define the powers of the Governing Council, the composition of the Governing Council, the expert preparation for members of the board, which if there is no governing council how elections are conducted, etc., so I believe that we are all what you have suggested in the first reading that we have respected. There have been a lot of debates in me in a very inappropriate negative context about the provisions in which we say that the person who before the office was employed in the institution has the right to return to his place of work with the fact that, on the basis of the debate here in the first reading, we shortened it to two mandates not to be, that more representatives said that two mandates are something that is appropriate and logical, but I will repeat again from this place, and also in the context of these current appointments and shifts of directors in different parts of Croatia than different options, it is not easy to run institutions in culture today, there are great costs, there is great responsibility and it is not exactly a job for which very easy to find professional candidates. It is very, let's be honest, there is a very small pay gap between someone who is a senior museum advisor or some museum director, and the responsibility is immeasurable, and if we want the best people to take responsibility for us, that they want, that they want to take part in the management of institutions and give their contribution, then I think it is minimum to ensure that after 2nd year, after two mandates they can return, of course it applies only to those who have previously been employed indefinitely, so those who have passed a certain tender procedure, not to have someone come off the road for the director's post and then to automatism remain. We also organize orchestras, it is now in public debate and the Law on Theatres, we have made sure to comply now with the provisions concerning all employees from all orchestras. Here, I'd like so much intro, I've tried to point you out to those places that, between the first reading and the second reading, I thank you again for that affirmative debate and for the good suggestions. I hope that this law will receive your majority support and that we will already receive the next funding cycle which, as far as the Ministry of Culture and Media is concerned, begins with September 5th, with the launch of a new public call, that we will implement it under this law that I believe is really so composed that it will contribute and transparency, but also the security of those who act in the field of culture which, of course, we all share the common interest, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117354	Thank you, too. You've got a few replicas, the first replica asked for Mrs. Crescent. Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117355	Dear Minister, first of all, I am pleased that you mentioned that the work of cultural workers is not as easy and above all attractive as many struggles are indeed people worth commending in public. What I'm interested in, in the final proposal of this law, is a more concrete article. The 17th century 2 states that artists, experts and cultural workers in the fields of art and culture are named for council members. Your Honors Minister, my question to you is who determines what this is about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117356	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117357	Thank you, ma'am. Parliamentarians. It will be determined by the one who appoints them, it cannot be prescribed, it is the responsibility of all of us who appoint, who choose, to raise the ladder, to respect the achievements and choose those who are the best.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117358	Thank you. Mr. Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117359	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor. The ministers are sure to be a lot of negative issues today, and I'd go positive not only because it's morning, but because I think it's correct for this ministry. The IDS won't be safe against this law, we'll see if we vote for it or keep it, it'll depend on this debate, but I have arguments for it. First, you have accepted suggestions from the field, I have information from Istria, and it is a proper approach to do legal acts and we welcome it, and the second is a multi-annual quality cooperation that the Ministry of Istria has with Istrian cities, municipalities and county, regardless of the political signs in these local self-governments, and that is another thing to be welcomed, and also to say publicly, it is a great example of the county's cooperation with state cultural institutions such as the archaeological museum, the conservation department, and here I welcome it, and I appeal that it should continue and let some of it go on for more than a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117360	You want to answer even though they were just compliments?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117361	Thank you. Well, the policy of our ministry in this segment is really inclusive, I'm glad you recognized it. I must now get out of this place and thank your longtime head who was one of those who made a significant contribution through the task force to draft the law. We believe that we are guided by the thought that including the larger circle of stakeholders and listening to those comments that are affirmative to all of us can only benefit us, and that is, I am glad that it is noted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117362	Thank you. Mrs. Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117363	Thank you. Here you have said yourself that this law has brought together three laws in one, and I must tell you from the position of the head of the unit of the local administration that I welcome because this is certainly easier for both monitoring and action. You've mentioned local units yourself many times. What I would like to point out in particular is that the law also takes care of smaller units of local administration where sometimes it is really harder to develop culture because of lack of staff. For this reason, we should welcome your decision that members of the Board of Directors may also be persons with a higher level of expertise, but we also have important provisions for returning to the work of directors, i.e. in the workplace, because I think that this policy towards directors will be reduced and encouraged others to participate more actively, i.e. to report to the competitions. As for the public call by 1.10, I must say that, in addition to the safety of the employees, it means a lot wider, because it will be better planned, it will be better for the smaller units to agree on the programmes. Here's a comment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117364	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117365	Thank you. Yes, we tried, although it is difficult to compare the level of the ministry and the level of a small municipality or a small town, but driven by the interest of deciding professionally about culture at the level of achievement to introduce such provisions that will allow those smaller ones to competently run their cultural policies. Of course, the ministry is also in my office, but I am also sure of those who have preceded and who will come after that is always there to offer their hand in the interest of culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117366	Mrs. Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117367	Thank you. Dear Ministers, it is evident both on the board and on this first debate whether you stand on the side of the principal which is of course good, but on the other hand you say it is not easy to run an institution in culture. But believe me, sometimes it's not easy being under some kind of management. I think a law should take care of both employees and directors equally regardless of the current situations. But there's something else I'd like to ask you about what I've noticed the last night I've been dealing with this law. Usually in the name of the law, it contains what it is about, what that law norms. However, in the title of this law, we do not have the management of public institutions in culture at all, so I wondered how someone who is not verifiable simply came up with information, legal provisions on the particular subject that is important. There's a law on institutions, but there's no title to what I think is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117368	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117369	Thank you. It's very simple. We decided on this title because it would just be the title of the law too long. You know that laws must and quote, and it is not always in the title of the law, nor is it possible to describe all segments of what the law regulates. But I am sure that those to whom it applies are those who decide, those who manage or those who contribute and create that they will be recognized and found. It's not an excessive law, 53 articles. And so it will be shortened likely the law will get someone's name in use.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117370	Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117371	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I have one question that concerns that part and which you have highlighted in your opening statement, and the subject is real estate. The theme is the use of real estate. I absolutely think it's incomparable that all the properties that are owned, so what states, which units of local self-government are putting into use, are taking care to give the conditions. And you're absolutely right that no institution, so no bookstore can compete with a coffee shop or anything else. But what bothers me a lot more, and it might have to be settled in this law and some others, but maybe it's the topic of discussion for you in the cabinet or the narrow cabinet. We have cases where there's a dispute between the state and the local self-government unit around the same space. The model that some others have is this, that such space is given for use, that compensation for it is given to a special account until the dispute is resolved. It seems to me that it would be one of the models and that it's worth a special debate as far as your cabinet is concerned. So, it can be difficult in this law, but perhaps in the roof law, it can be solved. [[/Intruder Radin: Time. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117372	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117373	Thank you for your comment. In principle, I think that especially those on public funds would be the attitude of state and local self-government or some state-owned companies or public-owned companies. They should have survived whenever possible in disputes, and the roof law will go as far as I understand in the procedure this year. I think it's planned for the last quarter, if I remember correctly, so it'll be an opportunity to sort this out. I agree with you, it would make sense to manage a solution to the dispute the way you suggested. We unfortunately have some cultural institutions that have been so paid on protected accounts for years until disputes are over.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117374	Mr. Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117375	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. We know that the majority of public needs in culture are financed mostly from three levels, from the level of ministry, local, regional or regional units. But lately, we have more and more examples, participation in EU funds, and I would mention here from my county, namely from the town of Sinj a fresh example of the Cetin region museum, which just in the project "Sin in srid" has withdrawn significant funds, and in this way I would say a significant qualitative transformation of that institution, so that it is largely now open to people for various workshops, which was not the case before this investment, so I would like to know if you are going to, if you still have such examples at the level of the entire Croatian funding from the EU funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117376	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117377	Thank you. There is, of course, realisation and resources from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan where one part will be invested, it is historic, in 8 state archives, we haven't arranged so much, I think, for the last 100 years, energy recovery of cultural infrastructure, also through the Multi-annual Financial Framework, we will finance the equipment of institutions in culture, so for all of these, especially smaller institutions in culture throughout Croatia, we will raise their level of infrastructure and energy restore them and digitise them, ensure access to persons with disabilities, so all of what are some horizontal priorities, and in art. 8 precisely because units of local self-government in the event of obtaining European funding, we are excluding co-financing of European projects from these deadlines and procedures that we are editing for national funding. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117378	- Mrs. Crescent. Ancient Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117379	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. Here, the law is really good and this, I support it because given how much culture is developing, especially this modern and needs on the ground, especially in smaller units of local self-government, I think there will be a more transparent competition and that the units of local self-government, those that are smaller, can see that they can set up councils, but if not, they can also have commissions and that they will probably get more funds to rebuild because indeed and in these smaller units there are really our cultural objects that need to be restored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117380	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117381	Thank you. Yes, this regionalization of even cultural development, even regional cultural development is something that is an imperative of cultural policy and at national level, and then includes local levels, we see culture as one of the vital needs of our inhabitants. It is also an argument that, unlike all other European countries, we have kept culture open during the pandemic, we must never forget that because thanks to that decision, we have made it possible to continue to work, so we have made it possible to exist, but also today we do not have such a crisis of audiences as other countries have, however, when I mention it, the pandemic has left a devasting mark on amateur culture, KUDs and all those who have been disabled in the work, and I think that together, national and local levels must now make some contribution in these years to them being restarted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117382	Thank you. Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117383	I would like to thank the Vice-President of HS, Your Honors Minister. I believe that this law will strengthen transparency and security in cultural workers and that they will gladly accept this law. I am pleased that certain changes have been accepted in relation to the first reading and that the directors are now those who compete for the director's post in a much safer position and that, as in other institutions, they keep their mandates 2 mandates and that is, clearly, well, for their safety. What I was about to ask you may explain the role or difference between the cultural council and the board of directors and how those who are in the boards receive some compensation and whether this is true for those who Are they members of the cultural council? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117384	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117385	Well, members of the board are members of one of the management bodies of the institution and the founder decides whether they or not have the right to compensation, some, and also the amount of compensation. As far as cultural councils are concerned, it is, there, the advisory body of the minister or head of the unit of local or regional self-government and, therefore, the one who establishes and appoints, determines whether and how much compensation the members of those councils have.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117386	Mr. Detachment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117387	Your Honors Minister. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 8 of this bill stands, I quote, exceptionally from the provision of the article. 7th century 1 of this Act may be awarded directly without publication of a public call where it is not possible to carry out the award procedure through a public call, and the urgency is caused by an event which could not be predicted. It is projected up to 5% of the total amount intended to finance programmes and projects in culture, which is quite interesting, so now I am interested, since you have been a minister for many years and have seen a lot and practice, can you point out from these years since you have been a minister of several concrete practical examples where the need for the allocation of this kind of funds has been shown in the bill, because of the urgency caused by an event that could not have been predicted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117388	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117389	First of all, there was no limit so far, so we found in our analysis that some units of local self-government and much more than 20% shared in such a way, so now we've put it down that it can't go below, above 5%, and the urgency you have, here, I'm going to approve today, for example. a contract for international cultural co-operation for KUD Šumari from Vinkovac, which was held a month ago for the festival in Mexico. They couldn't answer the competition because they now got.../incomprehensible/... and you have examples of very many, especially co-productions, calls for festivals that don't happen in our calendar years and there is a need to react quickly. Part two of this article. discusses urgency in case of emergency protection measures, e.g. It collapsed a few days ago, the facade of the Castle of Dovevec. I mean, they didn't know on the 1st of last year that it was going to collapse now, and you have to intervene urgently.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117390	Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117391	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Minister. In the first reading most of the debates went in that direction that this is one megazacon, that this is something that is not good, that three things are put into one, I would say that this is one maybe school example so that it could be faster, stronger, more and better. This law here in the second reading has accepted some of the things from the first reading, significantly simplified that whole procedure, solved what many have been puzzled by the eye in the first reading, which is that after the term of one minister disbands the cultural council, someone else came to appoint others which I think is good from that political hygiene and everything that arises. I particularly welcome what I said and for the last time, and that is that even state property that is not in service can be put into operation important help and cultural artistic societies and other cultural associations, and they do not have adequate space in their unit of local self-government. So I think we're on a good track to pass a good law. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117392	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117393	Thank you. I'm going to respond to two comments from your replica, one of which was hard for me to figure out how someone could call a megazacon, a law that had 53 articles. So what we really do here is we round up that part of funding, decision making and managing in one meaningful way to put everything in harmony with each other. And secondly, I would correct you, we weren't just thinking about an asset that wasn't operational, just the opposite. We hope that we will be ambitious in our cities to place attractive areas that are publicly owned into the function of culture and thus contribute to a better quality of life and indeed that cities have certain elements of that city that they must have.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117394	Thank you. Mr. Krstulovic Oprah.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117395	Good morning, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, I thank you for this quality and quickly adopted second reading of this law because after a quality debate after the first reading you entered most of the remarks by our colleague here. I am also speaking to you as an ex-employee and former director at a cultural institution, and I must truly welcome this intention of allowing the directors after the term of office to return to an adequate place according to their professional preparation at the institution in culture because it is unusually important to choose the most qualified people in these places. It's also important to emphasize one thing, which is that you're in art. The 40th introduced an important provision in which exactly the ministry is appointed by the directors unless the mayor or mayor of the municipality does as is now happening in the town of Split. You're actually a solution that unblocks blocked cultural institutions due to the unhappiness and negligence of individual mayors and mayors. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] As in the case of the city of Split, the man who resigned and left the institutions in trouble [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117396	Thank you very much, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117397	Thank you. We are in our term as you know we gave up those elements of the fee of confirmation, my deep belief if we want decentralisation that in culture that responsibility must be on the leaders and we have slowly abolished all those provisions where the post-festum ministry appeared as some who verify the choice. However, it is important in these situations when, for reasons of negligence or some objective reasons, the appointment deadlines are missed that institutions are not then left without administration because of course it does not only harm that person or those persons who are being brought into such a situation. It primarily damages the institutions and then the culture as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117398	Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117399	Your Honors Minister. Here we are surprised by the number of objections you've adopted, about three out of 15 if I'm not mistaken at my place and I think that's good, yet we've improved the law a little bit. I have another question that's about funding art. 33. That article states that a financial asset provider may terminate a contract unless a person or an institution in culture has done its job, or if they have not provided the right reports or provided false reports. And it says down in Section 2 that those funds can be returned along with the interest and that's okay, that's punishment for the institution. What about the physical person? How were you going to punish a natural person who was actually responsible for it all together?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117400	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117401	So this article doesn't really change much in terms of the actions of the Ministry of Culture and Media and so far, it only gives us that possibility. So far, we couldn't unilaterally break the contract, even when we saw that the contract wasn't going to be realised, but we had to wait for it not to be realised and then ask for a return, so if a return occurs, there are several instances, then criminal charges are raised. This is our obligation, given that we manage public funds, it is both the obligation of local and regional self-government and there is no difference whether it is a legal or physical person. So, unfortunately, we had cases that some artists had achieved, individuals, so natural persons had not realised the programme, they had to return the funds. It's a simple rule that we all have to respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117402	Thank you. Mr. Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117403	Your Honors Minister. I think it's a good thing you mentioned state property management in your presentation. I believe that in Croatia we have a lot of state property that is not valorised and decaying, or is increasingly devastated, so I am curious whether there is a specific plan of the Ministry of Culture that buildings or some property would valorise for the purposes of culture or whether you already have some evidence of the interest of certain which legal persons so that they can all together or make one contribution primarily to valorisation and property that no longer fails in the capacity of course of cultural development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117404	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117405	As defined in Article 14 of the Regulation, we must be aware that there is a lot of such property that has already been placed in the function of culture, however, some spaces and decades. The question arises, however, when these contracts need to be renewed, what if someone appears, can be mentioned for example. The space of the library society, it's decades, it's tradition, it's part of our heritage, memory, we now want to precisely regulate the criteria of how such property is assigned and under what conditions and if it works by the rules and contributions of culture to ensure that such users are safe. And of course what's important to us studios, places to work. We want to encourage local self-government to create to secure the premises [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And they put them in a contest. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117406	Thank you. And finally Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117407	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, I also pointed out in my first reading that the law is extremely good and, in fact, makes it easier in this way to sublime all those doubts that you in the ministry, as well as units of local and regional self-government, can find a solution in the law itself. It is very good that in Article 14 you have made it easier for local self-government units to identify certain spaces and thus place them in the function of culture without always asking the question of why and how. Also in Article 34, you said and it is good to report within 30 days after the budget has been carried out what has been done and to what extent, and then you get these indicators which, indicators of culture where this share of 2016 is shown to be here significantly increased. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117408	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117409	Thank you for this comment. I have already commented on Article 14. I'm glad to see that there's some agreement that we took a good course when we suggested it. As far as Article 34 is concerned, we now have a breakdown of the analysis of the situation, in fact a national report in culture which is an integral part of the strategy on which it is working, a very comprehensive document, written largely before the pandemic so that it best addresses perhaps these two years, but this problem has shown itself, you cannot set indicators and goals if you do not have a well-analyzed situation, and we cannot analyze it unless the units of local self-government provide us with data. So this is really meant to be an instructional provision, but surely we will also be in charge of the allocation of funds whether the units of local self-government have carried out this obligation or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117410	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas for now. And do the committee's reporters want to talk? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, first in front of the Club of Representatives of the Most, Mr. Nino Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117411	My colleagues and colleagues, this bill on cultural councils and the financing of public needs in culture is not as abundant as we've heard, but it's still a super law because it kind of covers 4 in 1. It covers what has so far been covered by the Law on Cultural Councils, the Law on Institutions, the Law on the Management of Public Institutions in Culture and the Law on the Financing of Public Needs in Culture. News, one of the news that this law brings is that from now on, the Ministry of Culture will also deal with real estate. I will not go as far as some critics of this bill who say that it legalises political interference with real estate, I will not go so far as to go, but the fact is that in the future, if this bill is adopted, real estate will be able to be awarded to projects of special importance. And what is of particular importance will be determined by the ruling ministry by unknown criteria. So far, premises could be rented by local and regional self-government units when we talk about local level and the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property when we talk about national property. According to this legislative proposal, the Ministry of Culture can provide real estate with a direct contract, and the criteria will be governed by a special rule that will not pass the parliament, so we will not be able to have insight. And knowing how boredom we've had real estate management practice, real estate allocations, I'm not going to go into some recent cases and I think it's justified to have a questionnaire over this part of the law. This is regulated otherwise by Article 14 of which it says, the State Administration responsible for managing real estate owned by the Ministry of Culture may grant to the Ministry of Culture the management of real estate owned by the Ministry of Culture, which is leased by public competitions to natural and legal persons operating in the field of culture for the purposes of cultural art creation, production, distribution, education and participation in culture for the preservation of cultural goods and when carrying out activities which are of interest to the Republic of Croatia according to specific regulations. However, the more interesting part is now coming, i.e. paragraph 2. quote, the property referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may also be awarded by the Ministry of Culture with a direct contract in the lease of a legal person whose activity is of particular interest for cultural development of the Republic of Croatia, and on the basis of the criteria governed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the regulation referred to in paragraph 9 of this Article, the key words are "direct contract", "special interest in cultural development", and the specific interest is governed by a regulation which we will not see and verify in the assembly. This bill limits the obligation to set up cultural councils, further lowers for cities, for counties and cities from 20,000 to 10,000 inhabitants, so these of the 10,000 inhabitants are obliged to have cultural councils. Why this unnecessary accumulation of red tape? By the 2004 law, the border was 30 thousand, and in 2013, it was reduced to 20 thousand, and now to 10 thousand. Will each local community soon have an obligation to establish and finance a cultural council? There must be some appropriate measure, so the councils are good, but to what level, to what level, at such small places is it solved in one place anyway, then what is the accumulation and unnecessary cost and time? Art. 20 therefore determines, quote, the councils are established for the area of the county and the city that has more than 10,000 inhabitants. Although the current practice of appointing council members has proved many times problematic even this proposal does not define any closer conditions that one should meet to become a member of the council, what does this formula that artists and experts and cultural workers point out in the fields of art and culture mean? Formed in a way, distinguished get some awards, academics, finished this and what or recognize in the public how it measures reputable, it's pretty vague. This should have been further defined depending on which establishment it was involved. For example, the Supervisory Board on HRT stands there one legal profession lawyer, one economic profession, one from the media, one public figure, etc. We've had cases like in Split where in the theatre council are professors from the wind, or someone else is in the council because he loves the theatre, which is the same thing to respect, but how to measure this love of theatre art or some other segment of culture that covers the council. What happens at the end? This is where party people are placed, also called the sleeve wolf for people in councils with whom they have nothing to do with, so there are no criteria by which these councils are elected and this proposal has once again missed the opportunity for these criteria to be as precise as possible. The Councils become decorative or advisory of this proposal, someone else makes decisions. I mentioned it earlier in the replica. 8. which states exceptionally from the provision of Article 8. 7th century 1 of this Act may be awarded directly without publication of a public call where it is not possible to carry out the award procedure through a public call, and the urgency is caused by an event which could not be foreseen in the programme of the programme's notifiers and project. And that amount of funds can go up to 5%, which is a lot. I am not satisfied with the reply I received from the minister because the minister has given me two examples that do not enter these 5%. We heard an example of an international survey or folklore in Mexico where they passed, so they went to waste whether there were facades or shrubs on an institution, and the article, pardon, article 3. 8th said, the cap on the total amount of funds of 2nd century, so in this 5%, does not apply to programmes and projects in culture co-financed by the EU budget and/or selected in a public tender conducted by an institution outside the Republic of Croatia. So if these Mexicans called them, that's where they're given funds that don't go into this 5%, then how do you get to 5%? Furthermore, I continue to read Art. 3. 8, and in the event of emergency measures to protect cultural goods as well as taking specific measures to protect cultural goods during the duration of the extraordinary circumstances under the law, etc., so emergency measures to protect cultural goods, that is, if it has fallen off the museum or, or the gallery of bushes, walls or facades, it does not enter these 5%, so I ask the question, what are the experiences in practice which suggest that even up to 5% of the funds can be given past the public call by the ministry's assessment? The proposal provides that the results of the call for public needs must be published no later than 90 days after the adoption of the budget. What does that mean? This means that it is concrete to this situation, which often occurs in practice, that this end-user finds out how much public funding is available in a given year only after the year has moved away, after 3 months at least, and in practice perhaps half a year. It's amateur, people do the job, and then the money waits for months and months, so it can't be 90 days, that deadline has to be shorter. According to the Law on Institutions and the Law on the Management of Institutions in Culture, institutions are governed by the Administrative Council and it is called the Administrative Council. This proposal for a law explicitly amends this and states that the institution is managed by the Director. I quote an article. 40th, director of the institution in culture, which is the founder of the Republic of Croatia, appoints and resolves the minister responsible for culture, with the prior opinion of the Governing Council, if that is established. If the Republic of Croatia is a co-founder of the institution in the culture of directors, it shall appoint and resolve the minister responsible for culture with the prior acquisition of the views of co-founders and management council, if that is established and in accordance with the founding act. So, the concentration of power is in the hands of the minister or tomorrow or tomorrow the minister. This might be good, though, says Machiavelli these are some ways of transparency, Alexander VI., Borgia was terrible, so however he won a lot for church, later similar to Juliet II, and then came the Holy Pope who knew how to manage it well. However, in principle, this concentration of power in the ministry's hands is not good Next in an individual debate. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117412	Thank you. No, no, no, Mr. Hasanbegovic. Dressed Koržinek on behalf of the promoter for 5 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117413	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd just like to make it very clear to some things, even though I was saying it in the introduction that maybe the debate doesn't start in some wrong direction. Cultural councils aren't cultural, they're not bureaucracy, they're not people who are employed, they're not any cost, it's a minimum fee to provide the funds transparently. Direct contract, you ask what is a public interest, I have set an example for you, the Society of Croatian Librarians. I don't know who needs it in the law and whether it is necessary for a 100-year-old association, which was, or more, which has given so much to Croatian culture, Croatian politics, in order to define in some law that they are prominent now. But those who do culture, who are interested. Well, they will agree that the Society of Croatian Librarians is also pointed out that there is a society of writers, there are important things for culture, for Croatian politics and for our people, for our history. Well, that's important. It's important, you can't prescribe it by law. And so it will be defined by a regulation, not by any will, nor will the minister allocate funds to the units of local self-government, no. But the units of local self-government will bring their own criteria in order to assign space, but again, if we want to have a bookstore in the central city square, not another coffee shop or another bookshop, then the body will be executively or the assembly will determine that it wants that bookstore in that place, and then they will call the competition and all the bookstores will come forward and you will compete as they compete for other things, but we cannot leave everything solely to the commercial interest. It is the only, only intention of this article and all the leaders of the local self-government units welcomed it. You say the councils became advisory councils, and now, nothing has changed. I've made this 5% clear, and I'm happy to give a full list of topics, so it's not a European-funded European-funded project... international co-production rather than an international cultural cooperation programme for which you are required to report on 1.9, but if you are juryd 1.3, then no, you could not have known 1.9. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The urgency in this section 3 is the one that is prescribed in accordance with the laws on the protection of cultural goods in the event of a major disaster. You can't always predict individual situations. No later than 90 days, no later than 90 days, not 90 days because some have now allocated funds and 6 months later. The city of Split went to elections without granting funds for public calls, nowhere, here are the tables, not published this year. That's what we want to stop. As for the Ministry of Culture and Media, already in the first year of my term of office, and I appointed in October 2016, we until the end of the 12th year. published all the results. You know how it was during my predecessors? 4. mesa, 5. Mesa, 6. I mean, if. If. The first year we sat down, worked, and we send that message to everyone. Put out the funding results. It's the only one, it's not this saying not to announce in 90 days, but at the latest, to read when our cities, the big cities this year have called. 3.3.2022 In 2022, the city of Split, 3.3.2022, announced a competition for 2022 and then someone in the city council today or in their campaign calls the directors. 3.3. tender opened for that year, I now answer to you because you had a campaign in Split where you took pictures in front of the theatre. Instead, your party, I apologize, not you, your client a week ago, two weeks ago. It was about directors and appointments, if we want to develop culture, we need to introduce some rules and some deadlines and some security because this can't be done. And there's no concentration of power, just the opposite, this The law is maximum decentralisation. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117414	Thank you. We do. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117415	Let's stick to facts. You say you took a picture in a campaign outside a theatre in Split, I didn't take a picture, then you say your party, I've never been a member of any party in my life, not even now, at least not yet. How has the Croatian Society of Librarians been given space? Do real estates have to be given to the management of the Ministry of Culture in order to get important institutions to use them, as they have so far? Then you mention this situation, here, the Society of Croatian Librarians and will be asked around, there will be a public call, etc., however, Art. 2. 14 says, the real estate of 1st of this Article. The Ministry of Culture may also assign a direct contract to a legal person whose activity is of particular interest to cultural development. So the problem is to concentrate real estate in the hands of the Ministry of Culture which can be awarded by direct contract by criteria that are not clear to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117416	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117417	Excuse me, I thought you were a member of the Bridge because you were one of the party's most prominent members had a press conference in front of the Split HNK and claimed that this law created the Pharaohic powers of directors. I'm sorry, I didn't know, and that's exactly the explanation. So, after an association operates in the cultural area, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60 years, the intensity is that if that regulation is written so that it can be, here, I see the Skoru representative, it can be a composer's society, it can be such an important institution, it can be said if it meets those criteria that it can continue to operate in that space without a public call being called out. Or do you think that every few years for that space, we should call a competition for that association as provided for by the roof law because the roof law is meant for those who use real estate commercially, and this is about putting certain areas of culture for public use and for those who are not public institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117418	Thank you very much, thank you. And now it's Mr. Zlatko Hasanbegovic's turn, the House Movement Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117419	Dear Ministers of Finance, Decision-making, personneling and heart management are the soul of every state policy and state cultural policy which should also be the expression of laws like this in the case of Croatian culture, which, according to its European continental surrender, is a fundamental institutional culture unimaginable without the role of public money and public cultural institutions and permanent symbiosis to state cultural policy, which, depending on its historical circumstances and political constitutions, was known to be a mother but also an evil stepmother. What's this about? Instead of the root procedure, we have cosmetic and essential insignificant novels of three existing laws, the Law on Cultural Councils, the financing of public needs in culture and the management of public institutions in culture, which is the fact that they want to be covered up by their mechanical blending method to reflect and paste into one law. This is, of course, a legally bizarre pseudo-nationalization as a result of the official mediocre bureaucratic mentality in our public administration, which Mrs. Obuljen Koržinek, the Minister of Culture, found his authentic representative. If it had already started in this nomotechnical acrobatics and a second-class student of a mere school, it would have come up with the names of a law that should consistently read the Law on Cultural Councils, the financing of public needs in culture and the management of public institutions in culture. But instead, because of the obvious nomotechnical ingrativity from the title, the management evaporated even though the method of random choice by the same logic could have turned out to be cultural councils or public funding. An enthusiastic or masochist in e-consultation has seen this nomotechnic nonsense, but his official mind from the ministry has answered it in substance, it is noted. Since they were born during the 3rd January procedure from 2000 to the state cultural policy, we are now able to remind 20-year-olds that they are the cultural council, which is their effect and the intellectually ideological background of their creation. The position of additional cultural and social powers uninterrupted to this year came to those who were Yugoslav, spiritual and cultural conditions from 1945 to 1990. seen as a historical normative, and in '90. with all their faces and looks like some kind of excess and counter-revolutional disorder to them the near normality that needs to be restored especially on the cultural agenda. They formed their theoretical views on cultural politics at the end of the 1990s in a multitude of lobotomian and, of course, outside of the donated lifeless theoretical debates, strategies and notebooks, the Lightmotiv which was and remained the following description of Croatian culture, there are many of them, choosing only one as typical, quoting Croatian culture is conservative, historical and nationalist, it is not acceptable to a European environment because it represents an isolationist, anti-globalistic cult of shvells and players contrary to the world of information and multiculturalism. The legislative term of the January 3rd procedure was, among other things, just the cultural councils conceived in the spirit of the 1960st Utopia as instruments so-called. Democratisation and decentralisation in decision-making, in fact, only one of the help instruments of the so-called detudjemanization on the cultural plan, which in practice turned into a process of denationalisation and new ideological clientisation and monopolisation. So the project of a new cultural policy, which was transferred from strategies and notebooks to a legislative framework in fact, has turned into the creation of barren advisory bodies, former commissions without real influence always named after ministerial political ideological preferences. More specifically, in one branch, the wider clienteleistic monopolies of ideological abundance rewarded by state readings and budget funds of the network or octopus, which has identified itself with the notion of a culture with air conditioning during Kukuriku Milanović's government and his minister and minister of culture from a cartel called HNS who forgot that despite being a good anti-fascist, it does not mean that USKOK will not knock on your door because of raising and spending public money from the business cards of the Ministry of Culture for Private Needs, a network that was briefly launched during 2016, and then again embraced in the halls of Runjanin Street. 2. In conclusion, what changes this law? It's basically nothing. If we do not look for far-reaching changes in trivias such as capital changes to the title of music council and musical stage art in the imagine of the Council of Music and Music Stage Arts, the Council of Library, publishing and bookmaking activities in the Council for Book and Publishing, and I am particularly attracted to the heart of the change of the name of the Council for Innovative, Artistic and Cultural Practices in something that is lovelyly referred to as the Council for Interdisciplinary and New Art and Cultural Practices for All and Nothing. If we ignore these bizarre concepts of intervention and cosmetic change, the question could be asked, and without being overruled, why is this law even being passed? It is brought for one reason only, only one reason is called Art. 14th century 2nd and 4th, where ministers and mayors and mayors receive the Pharaoh's discretionary authority in the background is, of course, an idyllic idyllic idyll between the Ministry of Culture and Media, more specifically, the minister and ideological sect that occupied the city of Zagreb, a former parapolitical activist network that finally moved on to a political party area and we can. Thus, the Minister and Mayor will be able to give state property without precedent through a direct contract and without tendering to a legal person whose activity I quote "special interest in cultural development", and all of which is based on naturally non-existent criteria which will later be regulated by the government. Of course, this is not about the Association of Croatian Librarians and some other prominent ones, and now significantly fallen traditional institutions, they are, of course, a fig leaf for some other direct contracts you will soon see which future tenants, especially in Zagreb. I congratulate you in advance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117420	And now it's Mr. Zeljko Pavić's turn to represent the positions of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117421	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here's our attitude about the law a little different. We believe that there are good provisions in the law, we have made one part of the provision, and through our remarks here we have changed the way that the Minister or the Proposers of those remarks accepted it and put it into the law. And we think there are some other things that we should change, but it's not so much on our heads right now to say that the law is wrong. That's not true. What still bothers us is this part that's tied to renting real estate and it's primarily because it's in art. The 14th century 3rd, pardoned in section 4. enables the executive body of the unit of local and regional self-government to actually give direct contract real estate and space for work owned by it in the lease of a legal person and now whose activity is of particular interest for the cultural development of the unit of local and regional self-government and, of course, it is all expensive on the basis of the criteria set out in Article 8. However, we believe that, regardless of the urgency and everything else, it would be possible to hold a public tender because of the fact that the executive body of local and regional self-government can rent space by public tender. And we think it's the only way. I don't know why this item 4. Since it's already been prescribed that a public tender will be held, there may be some explanation we haven't heard before, but I don't suppose that explanation will satisfy us. Furthermore, what was also highlighted here in the debate and in the replicas, it is the influence of the board of directors. We also considered it the last time when it was in the first reading that the directors had too much influence or that their role was a little too potent and that the council did not really have the influence that should have because we think that it should actually be the administrative council that set goals, and that the director should be the one who set a strategy for achieving these objectives because it is actually the only right path, and in this way, the director of those institutions would be present immediately and the report to the Governing Council and it could be seen whether the council was satisfied with the implementation of these plans or the objectives they set for him. There's another piece I put in the replica, it's part about funding. But I did get an explanation for paragraph 33. What is interesting is also paragraph 31, where it is actually stated that the financial asset provider is obliged to monitor the dedicated spending of the funds granted under the contract during the implementation or after the completion of the programme and project. We have one proposal here, given the fact that we have a lot of resources allocated to the National Recovery Plan and the resistance to information. We suggest that this part of the business is actually informed in a way that there is a system in which the automaticization of changes taking place on a particular project means regarding a particular contract so that the ministry doesn't even need to go out in the field to see if something is being implemented or not, but will have access to that data automatically. And it will, in that case, have the Ministry of Finance access in real-time and know exactly what was spent for what purpose and, of course, to see whether, in real-time and those institutions are giving information that they are obliged to give to the Ministry, or to the giver of financial resources. Furthermore, we also have Article 34, which also states that units of local and regional self-government are obliged to submit a report to the Ministry of Culture on the realisation of public needs financing in culture for the previous year within 30 days of the adoption of the annual report on the implementation of the budget in the local and regional self-government unit and again on the form established by the Minister responsible for culture by the Regulation. The same proposal again, given that we have allocated resources in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. I suggest informing that part of the business, to create a system in which all units of local self-government will be collected and to collect these data by automatic means without delivering anything in paper form. It doesn't make sense today when everyone's networked to deliver the data in paper form and then someone doesn't write it. So here's our proposal for this part. As regards an institution in culture with more than 5 employees, Article 37, where it states in paragraph 6, where the founder or co-founder of an institution in the culture of the Republic of Croatia and members of the Governing Council of this article designates and resolves the Minister of Culture in accordance with the founding act, and where this is relevant, and where the founder or co-founder of an institution in the culture of units of local and regional self-government of members of the Governing Council referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4, again, what has been written on behalf of the founders has been appointed and resolved by the executive body. We think it would be better, better quality to be a representative body, not to have all the power concentrated in the hands of the mayor, or chief of the local self-government unit. That's what a colleague of mine used to say, something like that that was here at the pay phone. As for the role of administrative councils and tasks we have already defined this last time, it has been accepted so that we believe the rest is not a problem. But I'm saying this executive body and this part of the funding right here, the minister told me that there was already one piece of information. I don't know what part of it, so maybe we'll hear it later in her debate. In any case, the Social Democrats Club will not be against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117422	Thank you. Mrs. Katarina Peovic, the club of representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front. She's gone. He's losing his right. Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash, Club of Representatives of CENTR and GLAS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117423	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Very often, when we recommend something from the opposition, the Government responds that it does not accept the problem by solving some of its entire proposal. This whole proposal then allegedly solves what the opposition proposes, but also a number of other things. From this whole proposal, it is often nothing or comes with a huge delay and does not solve anything entirely. Why am I actually saying all this in the first place? Because we have similar parts of the story here, they're just a little bit different. It's not about the opposition proposal, it's about the government's proposal. The three laws that were to be amended, we are now modernizing into one, and that's the part of the whole solution. What's left of it, however, is that this whole solution has really not been completely solved again. What we really want to achieve is a question that we all have to ask ourselves together where we're going? I agree with those who claim that this bill should be based on some strategic document and a strategic culture development plan in Croatia. It seems to me that it would be a logical order, if he wasn't respectful here. In that sense, it's hard to really say at this point whether three laws when they come into one is a good solution. Maybe it's good, but we don't know that. This proposal for a law in the opening statement states that I quote: “The dynamics of need, the dynamics of changing public needs in culture where new experiences within cultural and artistic practices condition the harmonisation of the role of cultural councils and therefore fully agree, but would it not be logical to have some roof document, strategy or national development plan, according to which we then adopt both this and these laws. This specifically relates to cultural financing, it is mainly financed from public sources in Croatia, and the current law did not meet the needs at all, but as the proposal says, again, I will quote, cultural financing needs should be adapted to modern needs and ways of financing, and the scope and definition of public needs in culture should be developed. That's true, but it just confirms it seems to me that we've confused the order because how we can do it all the way we do it if we don't know what the basic plan is for the next one. One of the new developments in this law regarding financing is to regulate the real estate process through public tenders or direct contracts. Real estate can be leased for the needs of cultural and artistic creation, production and distribution, etc. What we have a special problem in Croatia is that we do not actually use the property owned by the state or JLS because it often happens to us that such properties fail because JLS or those financed by public money and the central state that I call it cannot agree. As I gave the reply to the minister, I also spoke in my first reading of this problem of unresolved property relations and absolute attitudes and the idea that when we have unresolved property relations it is incomparable to give these properties to use, that the funds that are related to these properties are placed on a special account which until this dispute is resolved because it is incomparably better to use them, to use them, to use them for the needs of culture than to fail. Not once have I seen properties that have failed because no one has cared about them, and in many cases they would be extremely suitable for certain projects. What is good when funding is at stake and I think that more or less we can all agree on it is the arrangement of multiannual funding for programmes and projects. For many years, cultural people have proposed this and complained about problems that create too short periods of funding for them. Multi-annual funding really facilitates project planning and implementation. This is otherwise something that needs to be solved satisfactorily in the field of civil society organisations. Only through one multi-year plan and program can you plan well. I was particularly interested in the provision of the article. The 19th Law states that members of the Council of the Ministry of Culture shall make their mandate available if the term of office of the Minister who appointed them ceases. The appointment of the president and members of the council shall take place by public invitation, and then, on the basis of the statements received, the minister shall make a decision and nominate. I must say, I agree with this proposal. If the minister is expected to take responsibility for his job, then there is reason to appoint members of the council, but it is also justified that, with the departure of the minister who appointed council members, they place their mandate at their disposal. That doesn't mean they have to leave necessarily, but it allows the new minister to take responsibility for his job with a team he thinks he can do the job with her. Unfortunately, however, some dots and some dots are, but with everything in mind, there is no logic to what is written in the article. 47th, and this is the so far council continuing its work and mandates under the old law. This is likely to mean that they are not subject to this provision on putting the mandate at their disposal. If it has already decided on this step that each new minister has the right to determine the composition of the council should not have made it impossible for the successor to leave a certain council. It is equally interesting that the basis of the proposal of opposition MPs from the first reading is complemented. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the first version, the minister explained that it was not necessary because the tasks were prescribed by the Law on Institutions, but when we look at the Law on Institutions and its article. In 36 it becomes clear that what it says is not exactly the same as it was added in this proposal. In fact, the Law on Institutions states that the Board of Directors adopts a programme of work and development of the institution, and this law states that it adopts them on the proposal of the Director. The Law on Institutions also stipulates that the Administrative Council decides on the financial plan and the annual budget, and here it says that it adopts them. This is of course due to the transfer of management of institutions in culture, institutions in culture from the board of directors to a director appointed directly by a minister rather than a board of directors. In particular, the Law on Institutions makes it clear that the institution is managed and the Director is appointed by the Administrative Board and by another College Body if the special law is not otherwise laid down. This is what the Law on the Management of Public Institutions in Culture has said. This bill says cultural institutions are governed by the director, so the special law is defined differently from the Law on Institutions. Why and why has the ministry decided to change like this? This law makes it very clear that the powers and role of directors and board of directors are laid down. What particularly stings the eyes is the loud silence of the promoter for the reason of this change. In the bill, there is not a single word about why such a thing is proposed, and the explanations that we heard in the first reading from some MPs loving socialism, so they advocate the administrative council until they meet once in three months, I have to admit they are at a level of funny. This lack of any excessive explanation of the derogation from the Law on Institutions is one of the weakest parts of this proposal. It's not in this law that everything bad is true and I don't really want to define it that way, talk about it. A little more order is being introduced into funding and funding deadlines along with the years of funding everyone says is agreeing. Even cosmetically some remarks of opposition MPs from the first reading were adopted, although to be realistic, they did not change anything important, but they were adopted. The best example of what I'm talking about is the relationship between the boards of directors and directors, from the fact that the tasks of the boards of directors are listed there is little benefit if we consider that they have fallen into a different perspective in front of the directors who have all the controls in their hands. In a public debate, people who are engaged in culture in Croatia made hundreds of remarks and proposals that have not been accepted. Didn't those people who live in culture have anything useful to say on this subject? The government unifies three laws into one and out of hundreds of proposals none was good enough to accept. I don't believe that. I'm afraid that when everything is summed up and taken away again we're dealing with an old problem of HDZ governments, we're passing the law just so we can put a clutch and We've got him. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117424	Thank you. Mrs. Boska Ban Vlahek will represent the SDP's views, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117425	Thank you very much. If projects, activities and manifestations are financed through competitions for public needs in culture, one and the institutions in culture of the second lever of cultural policy, it is clear that the number of programmes is e.g. Associations or cultural art societies that pass in competitions as well as the liveliness of the programme, e.g. a culture centre in proportion to the scope of the financial resources. The more money, at least in principle, will be more cultures, works of art, social inclusion, development of the skills and confidence of young people, as well as quality of leisure time and a healthier life for the elderly. If the money is less or if it was eaten by inflation then from all the positive effects of art and cultural activities on citizens will be much less. And of course, this law on financing needs, the public needs in culture, is not at all addressed. All right, maybe it's from the Ministry of Culture in a government that doesn't care about that ordinary everyday survival of citizens anymore and we don't expect it anymore. Perhaps this law deals with regulating the domain to distribute the remaining money for culture, that it is not just leaking or going to the wrong things, that it is not spent just to spend it or that artists who court the authorities are relatively safe, while citizens as well as young people feel none of it, and artists remain practically unemployed. Perhaps this law is trying to introduce order in the distribution, to make decisions on how projects will pass in competitions for public needs, who will and how to run cultural institutions. Although the law of finance is inexorable and difficult to feel a great improvement if the money for the culture of citizens and the work of artists still doesn't have some think it's even desirable to pour increased public funds into a vessel that leaks through the holes of clientelism and nepotism anyway. There is a vast history of disputed discretionary decisions by ministers and mayors, the appointment of directors of institutions through political ties. Does anyone believe that without her, it's possible to become the director of anything? History of shifts and resignations of cultural council members who disagree with ministerial changes in their distribution, appointment of cultural council members who agree in advance with ministerial or mayoral priorities etc. The whole file of political parallelism on decision-making on distribution is too little money for the work of artists and the culture of citizens, scandals and disappointments regardless of the pages on which the Internet is full, so that this law at least tries to resolve whether or not it should be, I'm sorry to remind you that too little funds are allocated anyway. the symphony orchestra or the local choir, professionalize and away from the direct question of the party's omen whether the conductor is ours or theirs, whether someone called and intervened. Wouldn't it be good if the law at least if nothing else tried to solve it? Unfortunately, none of this summer. The Law on Cultural Councils binds the term of office of their members to the term of office of a minister who appointed them in accordance with Article 19(4) by prescribing their role as strictly advisory. It is before the minister in charge if he did not like their advice or simply they had to provoke their resignation or sign their shift, and now they are leaving with one to come with the new minister, elected according to his taste and political priority. If, therefore, this law does not deal at all with what the real problems in culture and art are how much public money we have and how we share it, that is the answer to what this law is about. In order for the minister not to have to worry about the tension with culturalists who eventually left his predecessor in the councils, that the cultural administration would be easier to administer, that it did not have to name too many numbers of the National Journals in brackets, because now everything will be at hand in one barely ironed but completely useless law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117426	On behalf of the MPs' club, the honourable Minister Nina Obulen Koržinek will now speak on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117427	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I answered not to necessarily react to something but to really protect myself from such statements by artists, council members and the culture sector at all. If anyone excuses for this stage, for this speaker, I apologize that the funds are received by artists who are courting the authorities, among the 8,000 programs only in the Ministry of Culture, I must react to it as a minister. Without any argument, without giving any examples, generalizing clearly without any insight, I don't think that this debate in this house has been conducted in this direction. Clientism, nepotism, shifts, resignations, scandals, I think it deserves some concrete example. For example, in my term of office, no one resigned. We publish all the results, I come back if I change my mind about considering the members of the cultural councils, all you're describing is the question of the political culture that we want to raise, and this kind of exposure is, unfortunately, going down. It's a matter of political culture. You can't prescribe political culture, you can't either have it or you don't have it. No shifts, no resignations, no scandals, no changing people in my office before the end of the term. Nobody. A single person in one institution who is unfortunately against whom they are being initiated. Here we are, I think we are discussing a legal text that is intended and intended to be improved, not labeled by artists of the means that are being courted by the authorities. What kind of artist is courting the authorities? Which artist is being courted by the authorities or must the authorities be courted? I ask you, if you make such views, let's give an example, where it comes from this law. The councils have been advisory bodies so far, they remain and now, we arrange a mechanism simply because these are the bodies that we, the heads of men, ministers or mayors give the trust to advise and make decisions. It's very easy, you've been asked many times to access information to see it knows the entire cultural public, I don't change the decisions of the cultural councils. It's a political culture. And what you said about the cultural council being replaced so that the minister wouldn't compete with the culturalists, so I mean, where does that come from? Why such rhetoric? These are people who do hard work with honor and responsibility and those who propose programs and those who approve them. And I'm asking you, we're always willing to listen, bring in the changes, but I really had to react because the claim that artists are courting the authorities is really insulting. Hurts and those who make decisions at all levels, and insults artists. And it would be good if you had some example that you set that example.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117428	Honorable representative Ban Vlahek has broken his rules of procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117429	Minister of Honor, Art. In 238, he demeans parliamentary deputies because he calls the HS speaker stage.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117430	She's right, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117431	I can agree with you because what you're doing right now is for you. You don't have as much time as I can list your wrong decisions and your bad ones as you say political cultures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117432	Well, you know it was a replica, not a breach of your rules of procedure, so you get a warning. But the replicas now follow, the first respected representative of Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117433	Thank you, President Reiner. So, I don't know, Minister, why you've been smoking so much and why with so much panic, you're looking at suggestions that and the comments you've heard from the opposition lines. So, the fact that part of the cultural scene is unhappy with the way the funds are approved and the distribution of funds in culture, is the fact that the cultural council is advised to ultimately decide the executive power, either at national or local level. I ask a question perfectly legitimate, so why are the cultural councils chosen anyway? Each executive authority shall be chosen by those cultural councils whose worldview and spectrum of the artist of judgment suit them. So, the cultural councils in this model are designed to serve as a fig leaf to cover the will of the executive authority. Then what do you have them for? Create some sort of forum that will give a wider space to the cultural scene to say what the individual project means and introduce more transparency in the allocation of funds. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] What's the problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117434	Thank you, thank you very much. The honourable representative Ivanovic is the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117435	Thank you. Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117436	Yes, it is, just a little while, just wait a minute because the respected representative Ivanovic has raised the same breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117437	Your Honor, Vice President. He's been injured. In 238, where Honorable parliamentary representative Oreshkovic tells the minister that she has died. She hasn't smoked at all, the woman wants to explain too much what the MPs are asking here, which is why she's taking this break on behalf of the proposer to explain the matter. I think the minister is doing her job properly, honestly and honestly, and this observation of yours that she's smoking here and that this is hers. The stage absolutely doesn't stand. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117438	Thank you, thank you. It was a replica, too, so you're getting a warning too. Now, a respected minister will respond to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117439	Thank you. Well, here's what I wanted to confirm. I really didn't blow or panic. So the funds are allocated transparently, our system is such a advisory role the council has been before, it is now. The contribution of transparency is the publication of their decisions, driven by the interest of representing artists in the best possible way, always keeping track of the appointment of councils both on regional and on gender representation and on aesthetics. We in culture don't like to talk about worlds, but there are different aesthetics. I always listen and take into account the proposals for professional roles, and that's the political culture I've responded to, and I'm going to repeat, I haven't smoked and I haven't advocated the government's views here, but I've been advocating the dignity when it comes to culture and artists.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117440	Thank you. Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117441	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. In fact, it's amazing that in this way someone is saying that this is an unnecessary law, you immediately reacted that you did not want to interrupt anyone's mandates but to go into continuity, and besides, when we talk about artists, so when we look only at the Ministry's pages of support in 2020, so in 2021, you gave everyone a chance, regardless of who they are, which is where they are, which they do, they can apply to, so there's no courtship, there's no categorizing anyone, and then I'm also surprised that some, some MPs don't understand what cultural councils are, and what it is, and what it means to local self-government units or to the Ministry itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117442	Your Honors Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117443	Thank you for this replica. Indeed, not only do we allocate funds in accordance with the existing competitions that we found in my mandate we launched many other direct support for artists. Here, for the first time, a public invitation has been published and scholarships for dance artists who are among the most unprotected. I will repeat, excellence, contribution to culture, transparent decision-making, and I am always ready and defending this law to stand before the cultural public, and let the actions and approaches and mandates and my and my predecessors be compared, and I think that everything we have done, we have worked to raise transparency, and then we have introduced such provisions into the draft of this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117444	Honorable representative Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117445	Thank you. Dear Minister, when you talk about courting artists, both you and I know very well that there are administrations that, if you don't comply with an employee, an artist, will be put on the side. And you and I both know these situations, and we're not going to name or institution. And that's why I want you and we're trying to tell you that we need to strengthen even more than it is, and thank you that it is, the roles of the boards of directors as well as those who name both boards and directors, that it can't be one person. Advocacy is sometimes something that artists are forced to do in relation to any category of government, so I'm talking about directors and sometimes local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117446	Dear Minister Oblisen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117447	Thank you for this comment. If such examples exist, I would say that they are rare to both administrations and artists who work in good faith and it is in the interest that the more work is done, the more quality they are doing, and that is the definition of those who opt for that call because culture and art is much more than work. Of course, there are always worse examples, but when I look at the whole at national and local level, regardless of all the difficulties, on politics, on shifts, etc., I would say that in the whole of these difficult circumstances we can be proud of what Croatian culture and art give to the public, give to their citizens and give us as a community, and the intention is to make their work safer and to give them the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117448	Thank you very much, we continue with the clubs, so on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the esteemed representative Urša Raukar-Gamulin will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117449	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with an associate. And in this final debate, we must repeat that we regret that this is going to be passed, however, I must say, the mega law given the size of the area to which it relates, which is therefore imported by as many as 3 laws so far, before the Ministry of Culture and Media has adopted a strategy that should determine the future development and direction of cultural policy development in Croatia. So at the same time as a working group is set up to create a national development plan for culture and media, the Ministry gives us a law that regulates key areas of the cultural system without knowing where this system is actually going, and so I repeat, this bill that is before us has been made, unfortunately, without a strategic and analytical basis, and without it, we believe that we will all agree, it is impossible to implement a truly quality law. The main objective of the adoption of the new law is to increase the transparency and stability of culture, to more precisely define the obligation to finance culture at all levels, to adapt to the modern development of culture, and to more clearly define the functions of the directors of cultural institutions. However, it is not seen by cultural practitioners, those who actually work in the cultural sector who almost unisonly claim that this Law does not bring about the necessary change or at least not the kind of cultural system that is necessary. Unfortunately, the law does not recognise public institutions in culture, so cultural centres should have a special, separate and united law that will identify among other things the democratisation of governance and the vital importance of cultural infrastructure. And we regret that no proposal has been accepted from the public debate, and also from this speaker in the first reading on the need to draft 2 laws, because indeed, it is very important segments of cultural and artistic action and it is necessary to pass separate laws. Thus, the Law on the financing of public needs in culture and cultural councils, and the Law on the financing and management of public institutions in culture, of course, in a broad discussion and dialogue with actors on the cultural stage, which is unfortunately missing this time. I have already asked in the replica of Madam Minister where the very title of managing public institutions is in culture, because I believe that by the very name of the law, it is clearly indicated which area of the laws of norms. However, in the name of this law, it cannot be known that it also deals with the management of public institutions in culture when it is not simply indicated. And we think that's how it should be. We'll make an amendment to that. The debate in the first reading has indeed accepted some proposals on better definition of the role and conditions for the appointment of members of the boards of directors. We thank you for that. We commend but still feel that there is room for these articles to be completed, so we will submit an amendment to Article 37, in which we propose even more precise tasks of the administrative councils. It should be recalled once again that administrative councils have been introduced into legislation because of the need for a more transparent involvement of the community in the management of the institutions and as a defense of the individual self-will of the director and even the abuse of their functions. The minister often publicly demonstrates her support to the directors because of the difficulty of managing institutions in culture. But we believe that I have already said that there is also a need to take care of the interests of institutions and employees who, in certain cases, suffer under certain administrations. As one of these objectives of the law, the need for a clearer definition of the function of directors of cultural institutions is stated, but I hope that all here will agree that the best legal solutions that take care equally of both directors and employees, and precisely the administrative councils are bodies that have representatives of employees who know their institutions and their knowledge, experience, knowledge of the possibility of action, can contribute to the development of the institution itself. With the amendment, we will also propose that the opening and execution of tenders for directors be returned to the board of directors. We believe that this solution has proved better in practice than that the tender is carried out by an institution that is a proposal for this law, because it can easily lead to a situation that the existing director who is now supposed to conduct the competition appears alone and becomes a candidate, so it is questionable how such an interview with the candidate will take place, for example, and how a decision will be taken without any conflict of interest. We will also propose by amendment that members of the Board of Directors be appointed by the representative body of the founders. Therefore, the Assembly or the City or Municipal Council, while the Director is appointed by the Executive Body, i.e. The mayor, the mayor, on a proposal from the board of directors. We feel it is not good for only one person to determine the composition of the Board of Directors and appoint directors. This will inevitably lead to excessive politicisation in the management of public institutions in culture, and, of course, it should seek the opposite. Therefore, we will also submit an amendment to Article 40. It is interesting that Article 19 sets out very precisely the reasons for the resolution of members of the cultural council before the end of the term of office, but it is not possible to do so for the directors of institutions in culture. It's prescribed by the Law on Institutions. But once three laws have been joined into one, I think it would be good if all the necessary legal provisions were then and in one place. It should be noted that one of the good parts of this bill is the introduction of the years of funding that cultural workers have been looking for for for years, not to say for decades. We commend and thank and finally it is prescribed by this law. We will repeat some of the main points to which the cultural community has made significant remarks, which is that the cultural councils become bound by the new law by virtue of the mandate of the minister or minister, which in many ways weakens their independent position and do not have the opportunity to influence, in key issues such as the allocation of funds, the final amounts for the proposed programmes. It is another point of unacceptable politicisation in decision-making structures in culture. Article 15(2) continues to pay particular attention to the promotion of Croatian and artistic creation abroad, to which we believe, of course, that it is not the ministry's intensity in contrast is Croatian and artistic creation as separate categories, so we will also submit the amendment. We commend the change in the allocation of space, but it is an undefined way of assigning it to cultural organisations that can be awarded by direct contract according to previously defined criteria. But these criteria are so far unknown, and these are the criteria that hides the possibility of guessing certain groups which unfortunately we have to admit is not an unknown practice in Croatian society. The law introduces an exception relating to the allocation of funds without a public call because of the urgency of the action caused by the event which the applicant could not foresee. There is certainly a need for such a way of financing certain projects, but nowhere in the bill has it been explained what kind of events they are, or that at least they are indicative, and it is prescribed that the total amount of such appropriations should not exceed 5% of the total amount intended to finance programmes and projects in that year, and 5% is if we look at 2020. Four million and we all know it's huge money for culture and decision-making without a public call. So, in this case, without yet clear criteria, it opens the door to the arbitration of the minister or mayor or the mayor that we consider to be unacceptable and it is therefore necessary to prescribe which reasons of the hasty action. Finally, we regret in particular that the law amends the items that were not even foreseen in the draft before the public consultation, namely that the cultural councils were elected under the old Law on Cultural Councils and after the adoption of this new law remain in office, given that, according to the ministry, the basic reason for the adoption of a new law of change covers cultural councils and changes to their names, the current members of the council do not really have any basis for staying in the mandates. I'll continue in individual or final, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117450	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Andro Krstulović, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117451	President, I'm gonna do it one more time because the microphone didn't work, healthy everyone. Yes, ma'am. Ministers I commend the fact that before a full month and a half, we had our first reading and that the second reading is already coming, which means that we are very expedient and fast and that the proposals from the first reading are largely included in this document, which actually unites the three laws so far, the Law on Cultural Councils, the Law on the financing of public needs in culture and the Law on the Management of Public Institutions in Culture. We're bringing in a document that is extremely necessary and I'm telling you firsthand. I was in two terms the director of the cultural institution, but also the mayor who at some point influenced the financing of institutions in culture that founded the city. By reading this law, I must indeed say that I am a little jealous because while I was in these positions, I did not have the opportunity to use and consume such a law which will make it easier for colleagues in both cultural institutions and in the units of local and regional self-government to facilitate the possibility of further quality functioning, and everything for better and better quality development of Croatian culture, art and creative industry, an idea that we have heard many times, but not in this quality way integrated into one document that will enable many creators in the Republic of Croatia to further develop a Croatian culture that on the one hand develops not only a new modern creative present but also the future, but also preserves the tradition that we are very attached to. Today we had the opportunity to hear from some colleagues and colleagues of a number of quality examples, some also commended for the included proposals from the first reading, but also basic considerable misunderstandings from colleagues who held a speech this morning, picked themselves up and went on. They held some of their tracks that had nothing to do with the intention of this law, which they were uncritically beaten with flossules and practically without any argument, but without any argument accused of nepotism, of intransparency, for what was just said, the subduing of certain artists to ministers and mayors to get some money. It is this law that says otherwise, it in a transparent way enables anyone to finance anyone who in the tender of public needs in culture to come forward. And just by mentioning this, I must commend the provision in this bill which explicitly states that tenders must be opened for the next year until 1 October of the previous year, and that this must take a minimum of 30 days, and that funding solutions must be made 60 days after the completion of the competition where the shame that happened in the town of Split will no longer take place in the city of Split, which is being managed by the man who left power and only in the third month has opened a tender for this year, he has not even spent it, he has called the elections and what cultural workers in the city of Split have today? Nothing, they don't have a chance to develop this year. When I became mayor, I took the city from the commissioner and without a budget, and I know what it means to manage an important body without a budget, I know what cultural workers and directors of institutions in the city are experiencing today, who, another city in a state that has no knowledge of the financing of their needs in culture, the thing is paralyzed. With this law, you do it and you need to be admitted to it. Also in a further article in Art. The 40th is very clear about what is happening to the leaders of cultural institutions, institutions with which the mandate expires, and whose councils, or mayors, have not extended or appointed another. You also had to act in a way to name yourself V.D. So the officials of certain institutions because the mayor resigned and left the institution in chaos. This law regulates these things and puts them in order. I also commend the fact that there is finally order, introduces order in the use of state-owned real estate with the award of Croatian culture with important, interesting and significant institutions. In order not to be influenced by commercialisation of quality spaces, historical spaces in certain cities would be awarded to pizzerias, bookshops or other commercially interesting tourists and interesting institutions, therefore bodies, and not institutions that have been there for 10 years. I use the opportunity to mention something outside of this debate, but which is directly related to this article, which is one problem we are facing, which is the problem of the historical Photo Club Split in the town of Split which was founded the same year when, as well as the NK Hajduk, which has been protected from the Ministry of Culture of the Protected Space, the purpose of this photo club is protected, it is located in a state-owned space and has difficulty in managing it because there has been a transition from the city to the state. Today, we have a problem with the photo club, so please, Madam Minister, together with the competent Minister Paladin, find ways to make sure that Photo Club Split is one of the most important photo clubs in the Republic of Croatia if not the oldest helps through this article that allows other cultural institutions of importance for the Republic of Croatia to function throughout the Republic of Croatia. We had a chance here today to hear a whole series of proposals mostly opposition colleagues and colleagues who unfortunately repeat show quite misunderstanding, and then bring up some findings that don't stand here at all. And for example, they accuse you and this law as the maker of this law that with this very law, with these provisions that can be directly assigned to a cultural institution of space in a non-transparent way, you will act and open some spirals in which we enter the area of your arbitration. People don't understand that certain mayors or ministers take responsibility and that they account for that responsibility at the end of their mandates. They take responsibility for the functioning of these institutions, they take responsibility for the functioning of their cities, we give them a chance to make such decisions on these exceptional occasions. Let us not go out with reverse thesis and prevent quality development of both culture and art and cultural creation. Your decision that the minister can make a decision on the allocation of 5% of funds in exceptional cases is also on the trail of these decisions made by the minister, as is the decision on the Croatian Cultural Council and the duration of the members of the Croatian Cultural Council, which is limited by the minister's mandate on this trail. One minister is responsible for implementing cultural policies and, of course, needs an adequate council that he trusts, and it is quite logical that the end of the term of office of each member of the cultural council must be possible for each member of the council to have the mandate available to the new minister. It's the sense of governance, it's the meaning of democracy, it's the meaning of choice. It's past the time of the SIZ ladies and gentlemen, the SIZs were functioning and arbitration in a political way 30 years ago. Here by this law we have very clearly a legitimate deputy mayor, mayor, mayor, or minister who has been given the mandate to manage some policies and to enable the development of culture in the way that this corresponds to the modern moment in the Republic of Croatia. We heard, this is for the end, and the commendation of some of our colleagues who have underlined that a large number of remarks from the first reading have been accepted. I'm sure the vote on this law in a day's support for this law will be much bigger than it looks at this moment when some say they're against this law. But this law passes, this law is correct, this law is quality, it is also needed by the HDZ Club And the others will give support to this law. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117452	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives will be the one for a just Croatia, and the respected representative Miroslav Škoro will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117453	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Minister with an associate. Here I will probably belong to the order of those who also won't have something very nice to say about this law, although I have been in Croatian art in culture in my own own special way for 30 and a few years. But what I can say at the outset is that unfortunately one of the biggest problems in Croatian art and culture, which is that successful and independent people simply don't want to deal with this part of the structure and one very important thing, which is money, money being allocated and divided. The Ministry of Culture remembers, we remember the minister and I may have ruled for about a year with about 300 million kunas, and now it's come to a billion kunas more than 300, so it's about 4 million kunas per day. And I would say that in these difficult times when it is not easy to be a minister in the Croatian government, especially in the cultural sector, carefully listening to everything that has been said so far that it is actually about trying to introduce quantitative methods into qualitative judgment and action and in some way dose democracy. And these quantitative methods are something that is very difficult to apply in what we call culture and art because it has happened throughout history many times that highly disputed artists and culturalists after some time live as top artists, top culturers, and that they are proud of their nation and the end from which they came and the whole world, and for life they were misunderstood by different cultural councils and people who were assigned, they were allocating some means that are also important to artists who should also live. So, calling democracy precisely because reading this law cannot be taken away from the impression that indeed, when it comes to the Council of Culture, all members are actually appointed by the Minister or by the Minister including the President, so if five of them are named by the Minister and the President is named as the Minister, so this is the quantitative method in which the Minister or the Government has concluded that it is best for them to determine who these people are and who are the most similar people in Croatian culture and Croatian art. Also, when they ask local units and regional self-government, it also happens that it is in the authority of people who don't need to know too much about art or culture, but they are the ones who name it and they are the ones who determine not only members but they will also determine who will be president because we can't leave it to those unsettling artists and culturers that they decide for themselves. What is important to say is the law provided for in Article 22 and the compensation. Now, that's for me, too, maybe some of them missed it, but it's a very important thing. I've already told these people successful and independent people are having a hard time deciding to work on such councils, but these others are very happy to accept it and get their compensation for it. They also receive travel expenses, receive compensation for participation and work in these councils. So the highlight of everything is actually some kind of national cultural council where all the council presidents are at the ministry. Me or anyone else who believes in the market and democracy would always like to be advised by people who are not necessarily people who need and have to think what I think and I still pay them a fee. I would like to hear other opinions, but here we have a law whereby the minister will appoint members, presidents and then invite these presidents to advise him at a given time. As I said, the money is behind it, and I would say that in fact, in this country where there are more voters than residents, it is very important to provide an obedient army of voters because when elections take place, then military maps that are topographically very accurate and go from house to house. And those who have developed the technology of coming and staying forever in power know exactly which house they have a man in, and if he may be in some council, did we give him any position small in kindergarten to be a cleaning woman, until the last minute everything is planned. So I think this law is on the trail just because of these fees and the fact that those in power will decide who will be members of those councils. An eclectic example of creating voters' listeners to keep the deep state going, and on the other hand to prevent and discourage, demoted that voting body that has already left any desire to participate in any democratic process in this country simply by voting their feet and leaving. Therefore, I think that in the end line and Minister Maric who left has gone into the fact that he has become aware that in these financial circumstances he can no longer defend this army of arrests in our country because in everything he needs to create added value. In everything and in culture, that's possible. That's possible. There are countries that are very good proof that significant, significant revenues come from their culture, from the exports of their culture. As far as we are concerned, self-employment in culture versus the EU is catastrophic, so we are the last. I think there may be only Bulgarians behind us, maybe. And this is according to the statistics published in 2019, so I'm not making it up, but we have a number of permanent jobs in culture third place behind Bulgaria and Romania, so about 95% works in culture, and that's a very good form and way to keep that army of people in a dependent position towards the ruling ones. All those who have spoken so far have indicated that they do not have too much understanding of the fact that the minister should appoint everyone, including the directors, and this, and then the principals, let's say I talked about it yesterday and I'm glad that you're Mrs. Minister here name examples and conductors, chief conductors. I don't know how much you know, but here's the master cycle of the HRT 2020 Symphony Orchestra, 2022/2023, I apologize, so it's going to be 11 concerts. Do you know how many Croatian conductors will conduct? One, one Croatian conductor. And do you know how many of the 34 works will be performed by Croatian, Croatian authors? 4. And do you know how many of the 16 visiting Croatian performers are? 5. The law on HRT clearly states that Croatian music is something that must do at least 40% of the overall music content, and you and I have advocated it in time, remember when we talked and in some ways were on the same side. 40%. Now, the authorities, councils, directors, so we get to the conductor in the end line and to the trumpeter, statistics say that here in the master's cycle of the Croatian Symphony Orchestra, thanks to our cultural politics will have one Croatian conductor, which means 9% of all, and as far as part of Croatian authors is alive, three are dead, that's 11%. If you want me to give you I have here exactly who are the people who will participate in that master cycle and that's what we pay for. So what makes me very different from everyone here present and on the left and right I don't think it's the money that the Ministry of Culture gives us or God gives us no Prime Minister or Government. That's our money. It's the money of people who have to pay 80 kuna every month for HRT alone and of that money, then we finance what? 10 foreign conductors, 30 works by foreign authors and 11 foreign performers, to have our prime minister pick two French and one German quickly, so here, and by this law that we cannot support, you're actually just continuing that policy of building a deep state that will be in power forever.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117454	Thank you very much. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. He is the first respected representative of Krstulović Opara What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure? [[Intruder: Dear Mr Vice President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117455	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the officer has been injured. 238 The Rules of Procedure, in which Honorable counterpart Škoro degrades us parliamentary representatives and says that we believe that the financial resources from the budget are not folk funds, are not the funds of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but of the prime minister and government. That's absolutely incorrect. The funds we have are the funds of Croatian taxpayers and Croatian people who chose us, Col. Škoro. Be more specific next time, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117456	My colleague Krstulović-Opera, you are aware that it was a replica. I have to warn you, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117457	In the same way. 238, our colleague insults our representatives here that we do not know where the funds come from and how they are deployed. He would have to know well that we are all taxpayers, and he is also very good and that if we are paying for HRT and also our tax obligations, then we also know how they are allocated and how.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117458	Thank you. And it was a replica, I have to give you a warning. Comrade Skoro, are you sure you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure too? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117459	Yes, Mr. Vice President, academic Rainer, I'd like a heads-up. Art. 238, but I have to react to this. So, of course, I'm aware of everything you're saying, and that's why I said it, and I'm aware that I told you that you're not aware that it's so much like that, Mr. Oprah, you know best what it means to spend between 300 and 500 thousand kunas on a concert, you know that you're still leading this whole story to ideology, as I'm deeply aware that we can never have a concert in Zagreb, it's normal, ideology.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117460	Thank you. Your wish will be answered and you will be warned because it was a replica. Uh, we're going to individual debates, respected representative Michel Jaksic, first of all. He's gone, he's losing his right to debate, so now he's going to speak to the esteemed representative, Nino Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117461	Continuing a series of ambiguities and dubiosis contained in this proposal of the Law, we come to art. 41st century 2 which says, for the acting director, the appointment of the director may be made, and no longer than one year without the public tender, the appointment of the person who has the education prescribed in Article 1 of this article and the appointment of the person who is not an employee of the institution who is not an employee of the institution may be made to this office. The existing legislative framework provides that v.d. Director for V.D. the director of the institution may be appointed only to a person who is already in a flat relationship with the institution, so the employee of the house, as it would say. He doesn't go to a competition, he calls it a council. This bill foresees exactly the opposite. So you can v.d. and be someone who is not an employee of the house, but remains unclear who will appoint him, how he will find him, and who should sign a contract of work with the so-called acting officer. In short, this text of the bill contains a lot of provisions that do not belong in it, it is difficult to take away the impression that it is precisely because of them, and all in the clear that it is spreading to the public, in the hope that the general public will not notice it. This Law significantly reduces autonomy, both the cultural sector itself and the local and regional self-government units, and strengthens the role of the central state. And in a series of undefined, rather vague criteria and often in direct conflict with the existing legislative framework. What are the councils up to? Well, here it is, if in art. 15 that defines, let's just look at the verbs that apply to the councils, what the councils do. The councils follow, consider, propose, propose, evaluate, and re-propose, and re-evaluate, and re-evaluate, and make decisions by someone else. What's the council for? That could be the rest of the last socialist system where some kind of self-management was being falsified. According to current practice, it was mostly a waste of money for fees and time, and then it would be better to abolish these councils, especially at lower levels. But, on the other hand, if good is to be done, then the council would be required, but such a legislative proposal does not take a step in that direction. It is shown further in Art. 15 on the Council's special attention to the council's commitment to promoting Croatian and artistic creation abroad, which means promoting Croatian and artistic creation, I suppose this has also come in, that it is unnecessary. In order for the text, and this is the final proposal, should read Croatian art creation abroad because if it remains this and then it turns out if it is promoting Croatian and artistic creation, that Croatian creativity is not artistic. Or that art is not Croatian. So here is the testimony of how sloppy everything is together, as well as the measures that enable the Croatian public to learn about the recognised values and contemporary efforts of art, the cultures of other peoples. Recognising values? Who admits that? Does that apply to classics, to canon. On the other hand, the contemporary efforts of the art and culture of other peoples. It says, if necessary, by establishing a link and an international exchange of views. This sounds like some of the provisions of the Soviet Union that have been copied, this dry bureaucratic language. Imagine recognised values, contemporary efforts in the art and culture of other peoples, if necessary, by establishing a relationship and mutual exchange of views. So he says, starting with the need for culture and art of all minorities marginalised and vulnerable groups of society, pay particular attention to promoting their needs in culture as their creation, and encourage the promotion of dialogue, cultural diversity and inclusiveness. So walking squared. And where is Croatian creation in the Republic of Croatia? There is no mention of Croatian identity, cultural heritage of culture, but of minorities, vulnerable, marginalizing. It's a bunch of nonsense. What that means is we're not going to read Nikola Chop because he's a big poet, but he's been in bed most of his life. Or Slava Raskaj is no longer a great painter, but we'll push her because she hasn't heard. Or Vojin Bakic is not a top painter, but he happens to be a member of the Serb minority in Croatia, so we will stick him in there and not as a big one. This is nonsense, against cultural anticivilization. Was Kamov a marginalized person? Young, poor, far sick, and we'll put him in that category and not a writer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117462	Thank you. Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117463	I'll break up the cultural council, i.e. What you've listed, what he's dealing with, and what his role is from proposing, from monitoring, from following, I don't know what we haven't come up with, is that what's most important here is that everything is being promoted except for Croatian creation, so you wanted to say. It all rolled up like a Bosnian pot, so you don't know who's drinking, who's paying. Because it's obviously much more important here now that I don't know the Serbian National Council, I don't mind. Is it more important or more important Croatian creation, but not the Serbian National Council, because of the identity of their creation, but about the coalition relations that we have today, SDSS Pupovci and the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, i.e. HDZ that essentially usurp Croatian creation, which led to marginalisation. Here I will, for example, say later in an individual debate the problem in Sinj of our cultural goods being done by the Ministry of Culture, to boycott our very important, our culture, our tradition, our history. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117464	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117465	What remains unclear here? Is there even a national culture? So Vojin Bakić is a great Cypriot name. It belongs not only to Croats and Serbs. He also belongs to the Italian who will come to Zagreb or to the Mexican who will see Bakic's exhibition. So, part of my heritage is cultural and Nušić is also Dusan Kovacevic with his plays. But they didn't come from the territory of the Republic of Croatia and it's not primarily our ministry's job to finance things about these works. And they're part of our heritage, because they're part of the world's cultural heritage. This is where marginal groups are mentioned, minority groups, and that's what? There is no mention of Croatian culture, Croatian heritage or Croatian identity except in this, obviously in this tipfeler where art and Croatian creation are said abroad, which only testifies to the lewdness as it is engaged.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117466	Dear Representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117467	Thank you very much. When interpreting and reading Article 41(2) of the responsibilities, then read paragraph 3 where it is said that the director of the institution in culture for which the founder of the Republic of Croatia is appointed a minister in charge of culture is said to be the founder of the units of local, regional self-government as the executive body of the founder. So, it's all good writing. Don't tell inaccuracies and lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117468	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117469	Thank you. As a dispute, I pointed out the following. V.D. may be a person outside the facility. How do you find this person outside the facility? I guess he knows something about a facility. I don't mind whether it's going to be appointed tomorrow by the Minister of Culture of the Orders of the Most or Mayor and Mayor of the Order of the Most or the HDZ and the SDP, but it's perfectly logical that in these transitional stages, such as the performer of the duty, it's to be the person who's from the house, precisely that the transition is done, and here it can be a person outside of whom it's unclear how they find it and who signs the contract with it. I'm just going to say a quick word about the council's renaming. It is sad that the Council for Book, publishing and bookmaking activity has been renamed to the Book and publishing Council, so even nominally it has turned out to be a literary activity, and we know what is the state of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117470	Thank you very much. Now, the honourable representative Goran Ivanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117471	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I won't be long. We've been through the first reading, we're in second reading. I read the entire phonogram of the session when we talked about the law in the first reading. Some MPs did not participate in the debate in the first reading, and it is now seen in the second reading, that they simply want to change things that are not mentioned here, nor were they part of this whole story. I will say very briefly what I think is important, and in the name of the club I was also saying in the first reading that this law is not any mega law as it was intended to be shown, that it is not any law that changes the history of culture in the Republic of Croatia, but this is one law that should be, perhaps in the replica, I have said to a respected minister some form which with much less articles solves much stronger, more and better. Culture is a broad term of course, and this law does not define here what will happen in culture, but wants in a fair, good, objective way to solve what affects culture, which is, of course, the cultural council and the administrative council of cultural institutions. I think we have a little bit of a collage of those who know local self-government and those who don't know local and regional self-government, and that's where I think we have problems. If you read the entire phonogram of the session from the first reading you will see that a lot of what were the remarks in the first reading were included in this second reading, it is certainly to be welcomed, it is only a sign that both the ministry and the minister want to hear what the MPs here say and all that is good and what might help is just put into this second reading. Of course, there were other things here that weren't good. Dear Representative Škoro was talking about, about some of the provisions in the cultural councils, oh, I don't think it's particularly correct for these people and alone as Deputy Mayor of Osijek-Baranja County, had the opportunity to see who the people who sat in the cultural council of our county were and when you read those names in turn you will see that these are mostly people, what they should be, people of the profession, and we never entered their party or any other, other belonging. I think that's where we want, of course, this is a political arena, and everybody wants to point in any way, so even if we have some topographic map that we're looking at who's in some governing council, and then he's going to vote for us, I don't think it's things, it's kind of like the debate of a respected fellow Mlinaric who here suggests that the assembly doesn't even have a break at all, but that he's going to permanently discuss, and then if we take statistics on his arrival here at the assembly sessions we'd see that it doesn't make sense anyway, it's not coming. So, I want to once again here in the name of the club and on behalf of all of us who have participated in this, to say and thank the Ministry, the Minister and her expert team and here to commend everything that is good, and the good things that have been emphasized by individual parliamentary representatives, these 5%, we don't know what is going to happen, we don't know the way that will happen and what is particularly important to me, and I come from this world is one of the observations and it was a comment of the CUD Unity from Split, one of the best ensembles that Croatia has, we don't have an adequate space in Split, the state has real estate that can be put into operation and I think it's a good thing, I think that in this way we will improve what we want, and that on the cultural map of Europe we are what we really are among the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117472	Thank you. We have two replicas, a respected representative of Raukar Gamulin first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117473	Thank you. You've said a lot of things, pal, I'm running out of time, so I'm gonna concentrate on one thing, and I'm gonna try the rest in the final. So you mentioned that this law would rightly regulate the administrative councils, cultural and administrative, but I would now remain on the boards. How do you think, in order to comment on the situation that both the administrative councils and the directors of JLS, I will concentrate on it, one man chooses, how can this be just and how, if it is one man, is politically elected, democratic, but also the parties, how is it just that one man chooses both bodies to manage institutions in culture? I see a big problem here, so please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117474	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117475	Thanks for asking. I don't see that problem at all if that one man, and we're talking about one man, knows well, knows the profession, a man who, who knows who can do it, and I think that's the point of politics. I think you'd like to compete politically every 4 years, someone in those elections is going to win, and everything should be determined by someone, someone else, so where is there that most of us are so, so eager, most of us won, won in Zagreb, tomorrow someone will win, someone in Split, and that's the point, the essence of the story. Therefore, putting on some additional elements that will make it impossible for this man, so why does a man go to elections at all if you, me, or someone else will determine what he will do and the way he will do it? So I think that legitimacy is a very important, important thing, and he's got it in elections, which is even more important.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117476	Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117477	In 238, the demeaning of parliamentary representatives really is because if this man is said to be, we can't assume in laws if this man is going to know the cultural center, the cultural field, if not that, that's not the way a colleague can do it. I absolutely think that democratic will is both the elected mayor's testimony of the citizens and the assembly of the representative body. I absolutely appreciate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117478	Thank you, thank you very much, you know that's a replica, so you get a warning. Dear Representative Krstulović Opara.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117479	Dear counterpart Ivanovic, you referred to a statement by a respected colleague, Rasputic, who said that the existence of a council in culture is piling up in culture, which is what you were talking about. I would like to hear your opinion again, whether it's a pile of earrings or it's really a quality advisory body that helps the executive body mayor, chief or minister to make quality decisions in the management of culture and cultural creation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117480	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117481	Thank you very much. One small correction, not Mr. Rasdić, spoke of it by the distinguished representative Miroslav, Miroslav Škoro was talking about, about the map of the arrest and about it, I did not, I couldn't, I couldn't comment, I didn't notice that Mr. Rasdić said it but Mr. Škoro, and in my debate I mentioned Mr. Škor, but it's absolutely no matter what name the name of the measure of what you wanted to say that, from my experience, I can confirm that if we can say that there is no such so-called. I don't know where it came from, but in the cultural and administrative councils, it's certainly not people who would, that's right, who would be and who would become in this way, especially not in the cultural councils. Here, try to find a list of cultural council members somewhere, and you'll see that they're all in order. Recognising artists from that area. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117482	She will now speak to a respected representative, Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117483	Your Honor, here I am actually going to rely on previous replicas to solve this dilemma whether they are in the cultural and administrative councils of ear or quality party personnel. There have been many speeches by some HDZ that there are no more self-government communities, that these times have passed, that we now have a system in which the minister or executive authority at local, regional level is given a mandate of governance. And we've come up with some new terms, which is political aesthetics. What it actually looks like in practice when a man decides we can see the example of the City of Zagreb when a new HNK intensifier whose appointment was ruled dominantly by the present minister. Of course, it is exclusively about professional and quality staff and that politics has nothing to do with it except the fact that it was the person who was Deputy Filipović Davor Damir, like that for the Mayor of the City of Zagreb in the previous local elections. So these are strictly professional, exclusively according to the professional criteria selected personnel. Culture should actually really be of politics independent. This does not mean that politics should not be concerned, but it should be a mirror of society. She should be an idea beginner of critical thinking. You should also look back at history, you should talk about the present, and with the help of imagination you should give us help in culture. However, we make laws with which we will not have such a culture. We will have a culture in which politics chooses its staff, puts them in key places, where we are from HRT to theatre institutions, where such as Ivo Hraste Socho will be nothing more than an officer to conduct party propaganda and serve as a small part of party machinery, nothing more. Therefore, all objections to the proposed law to which amendments are not actually worth proposing are fully justified. So the amendments can help where something small can be improved and repaired, and here the whole system needs to be designed quite differently. Here's where my key objections are. So, when we talk about the appointment of cultural councils, it is said that artists, experts and cultural workers are named in the fields of art and culture. Who prescribes the criteria? Who prescribes the criteria? The one who chooses, the minister in a specific case according to the cultural aesthetics criterion, as we had the opportunity to hear today, and in practice this means that among 2-3 candidates will be selected to be the one with the party card as shown by the HNK example. Three candidates arrived, three were legal, three had their own cultural programme, a person who was a deputy on the HDZ list for the mayor of Zagreb was elected. Well, that's a tough laugh. And that's how all the cultural councils actually work. It is therefore no wonder that this proposal amends and complements Article 19(4) lays down a provision saying that a member of the Council will make his or her mandate available if the term of office of the Minister of Culture who has decided to appoint him ceases. Well, that's actually fair, that's actually the Amen who said that all these appointments are purely political humane in culture that should be completely unpolitical. But there's another greater interest. There I agree with some clubs that have indicated that we have made one really nonsensic in the decision-making process about assigning space to work. So, we have the Ministry of State Property, which by the day of today's state property has not been listed, has not publicly announced who has what it has, but since we have an incompetent minister, the minister will now make available to the Minister of Culture of State Property, and it will, by such party criteria, share state property that actually likes it. The same pattern is illustrated at the local level, but it is known that in fact with the highest quality cultural properties it is generally available to the state. Here are those bad solutions which are a strong enough reason not to support this law and to vote solely against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117484	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117485	Thank you. Dear colleagues Oreskovic, you are critical of this article 19th and the appointment of members of the council. In particular, you have a responsibility to make the mandate available if the term of office of the minister responsible for culture ceases. You can explain it a little bit better.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117486	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117487	I'm critical of the way these cultural councils recruit at all. I claim it's just a fig leaf to remove responsibility for making decisions. All these cultural councils were elected by the executive government on both state and local level. And of course, within the cultural council, the people who respond are selected as well as the well-designed political aesthetics of the executive government. Their work is advisory, however, and ultimately the executive government shares what it wants, but it hides responsibility. Always the minister or the minister will be able to say no, no, no, I made that decision because that's what the cultural council that I chose and that's up to me. What kind of state is that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117488	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Minister Nina Obulen Koržinek will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117489	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I took the floor for two reasons, first because it's one ad-hominem, a very ugly attack. Madam Honorable Assembly MPs, the law we are discussing today does not regulate the issue of the election of HNK intensities or any other theatre, because there is a special law about it, and specifically for the selection of HNK intensities, a special article in the law has long been a central national theatre that is decided jointly by the Croatian government and the city of Zagreb. Well, that's the minimum when we're discussing laws and we're here today in the second reading that we know what the law applies to, but it's not really awkward, so here I'm going to say, first of all, during the two pandemic years in the Committee on Culture on the former, future ex-intendant, the ingenuity of which Dubravka Vrgoč was so much of an attack in this high house, so many unprincipled debates, so much planting, she was accused of being blamed during the pandemic by the death of one of her employees. In this high school in the Committee on Culture, I do not need to remind which parties are in this and how they participated. And today, for the identity chosen by procedure and competition, we're talking about the person who was the candidate in the election. We are not talking about the youngest soloist ever admitted to permanent engagement in HNK, we are not talking about a person who played all the major roles not only on Croatian but also on international stage, who later had a successful graduate career which she managed at the ministry, who was four years in the theatre council of the theatre. No, all you have to say is one thing that is an engagement of a political thing that is truly free of will in a democratic state, both yours and mine and anyone here. The other thing I have to react to is this thesis of earrings and fig leaves. I most beautifully ask you to take it available on the website of the Ministry of Culture, read the names and last name of the artist of cultural workers who are members of cultural councils and councils in the Ministry of Culture and Media. I will each time take every blow, every unprincipled criticism, every insult because we are obliged to endure it, but I am convinced that either of you has read at least 10 of those names so that you do not speak in this way about prominent citizens, respected artists, respected cultural workers. They are no arrests, no fig leaves, these are people with their careers, with their achievements unlike many who call them names and who have put themselves in a function of what, to advise them to choose the best programs, to grant them funds not to please anyone but to make the culture and art in this country progress. And this work of these people and the people of whom they decide for their sake we make this law, and they deserve indeed by my deep conviction more respect and respect, and I find it really hard to do as Ministers in charge of the field of culture when we discuss such a regulation in such a way to listen to qualifications of persons who have agreed to put their reputation, their experience in the function of making this country and our culture and art better. It's the only reason people agree to work in cultural councils because it's a very uncomfortable position. It is much easier to wait for results and then protest one or two problematic decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117490	Thank you. We have first of all a breach of the Rules of Procedure raised a respected representative of Raukar Gamulin. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117491	And the 238th demeaning of Parliamentarians. Your Honor, Madam Minister, I must remind you that it was you who, without a backup, supported the former HNK ingenuity. You mention some of the political options that you say attacked, so I have to ask you why you didn't support her in the third term if she deserved such support and if all the doubts that were expressed by employees aren't true. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much that was a replica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117492	You're getting a second warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117493	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117494	Think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117495	I'll definitely think about everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117496	Thank you. Let's go to the replicas, the respected representative Oreskovic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117497	Dear Minister, although you tried to speak with a lot of dramaturgy, your spin failed. So, I have nothing against any political engagement, but I think politics should be something that every man is interested in, but in this case I was attacking a model. And the model says there are artists without a party card and artists with a party card like with all other professions in the Republic of Croatia. In this particular contest, you had three people who had their references, they had their careers, they had their own artistic contribution, she won the HDZ party card, and that's the problem of the Croatian state at all levels, in all the dams, in all the spheres, you simply treat people who don't have your party card as less valuable and you're taking away their opportunity to contribute to the breakthrough and well-being.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117498	The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117499	I thank you for this attitude, I'll repeat, you said, I reacted because you were talking about, ad-hominem you attacked a person. I do not need to remind you, nor the Croatian public in any way that in this meeting, the former intelligence was discussed and whose support she did not have, but then in principle and now and always behind this situation that is now happening in both Split and Rijeka and other cities, I will always advocate that directors must if they have not broken the law to complete their mandates. I have thus appointed myself as a minister, I have not replaced anyone before the end of the term of office, and I will advocate it and we are introducing it into the law because I believe it is the height of culture, and look how your parties work elsewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117500	The next replica, the respected representative Lerotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117501	Dear Minister, I'm going to look back briefly, perhaps not as much on your exposure as on this debate that's being held. When we talk about the election, we are talking about the cultural council, so perhaps we can agree, and we can discuss whether it is good for one person to appoint representatives of the cultural council by, from the board of directors, but we have had the opportunity in some cities, more specifically and more specifically in Pula, to elect members of the theatre council and the NK through the competitions, who were chosen the best who were then elected by the representative body, so that the representatives of the theatre council would then be dissatisfied with the same members who were chosen by the representative body or who resigned from their positions, which definitely caused the reaction that the members of the city council were, and therefore I in the city of Pula were forced to change and the same representatives elected by the city council because the workers were not satisfied and should respect their decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117502	Thank you. Honorable representative, excuse me, Minister Obuljen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117503	After a long consultation with a number of current and former mayors and mayors, people sitting in city councils and following what we see is often happening at local levels with full responsibility and faith that we are doing well, we have suggested that the representatives of the administrative councils do not elect city councils and directors but mayors. Why? That's what I said on the board, because very often there's a store, we're a communal company, you're our library director. This is destroying dignity, and therefore we believe that it is necessary to identify where responsibility is, so here is the story coming out of Zagreb's appointments about a prominent museum institution, let's not hide behind some collective bodies, we should choose from the expertise, and I think this is going to be a much more transparent model.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117504	Thank you. Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117505	Dear Minister, I feel very warm and happy around my heart when I hear your exposure, as my colleague Oreshkovic said full of drama, this whole debate is what you are telling us to go to the Internet pages, look at our work as we do transparently. Here I came to the Internet site as you advised me, I listened to you, the first thing that opened up the section "Politics and Crime", it seems that the ministry lied a little bit about abolishing the support of Gordogan, the reminders they call on do not exist. So it's a magazine after 40 years. exposure, so that's when the Internet opens, we come up with some of your controversial decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117506	Dear Minister Oblisen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117507	From this pay phone, we are obliged to respond to every replica, including this one of yours, so that on some media, the section is called "Policy and Crime", I think we should all ask ourselves to quote it, and the other I referred to the Ministry of Culture and Media web pages, not individual reactions of individuals who are unhappy with individual decisions, and it will always be, there are no means for all, and in particular about this magazine and the situation we have all made very clear and documented, so if you are going to devote a little more time, you will find some more credible sources than the one you have listed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117508	The Honorable representative, Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117509	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I don't understand why you're angry when you're attacking people or defending yourself from an attack when it comes to a fact that is well known to all the citizens of the Republic, that it's a party card first for a career, first it's about achievements in everything, almost all segments, and so on in culture, and then it's about that, with that... of course again thanks to the party card something in politics, so this is the last example that colleague Oreshkovic and colleague Gamulin said is simple and you don't have to pretend, it's a familiar fact, and I think it should even be considered that this is mutilated and that every government has the right to appoint and that it is a legitimate artis, not that you have to twist the facts and say that it is a profession, and it is clear to all of you that it is political appointments. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117510	Your Honors Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117511	Your Honor, sir, if you were to follow culture a little bit and be interested in it, I can see from this exposure that you're not interested in it, then you'd know that what you said has nothing to do with it. I urge you, I have no others, no matter what the representative may say, look at the lives of the people who are taking cultural institutions, look at the résumés of the persons I personally had the opportunity to appoint in my term, these are all people with careers, with achievements, with experience including the person that made me go out for this pay phone. I will repeat only the youngest ever person in constant engagement long before even democratic Croatia, two colleges, PhD, diplomatic career, ministry career, theatre council We need to know the situation. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117512	Thank you very much. We need to know the situation. Honorable representative Beljak has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117513	Article 238 of the insult, so the minister said that I've been following culture a little bit, following it, I've been following it. And I'm going to ask you a question now that you're already so very capable of in the ministry, can you explain to me how the conservatives you're the boss are involved in the construction reconstruction after the earthquake? Let's explain this to me and the entire Croatian public. How do conservatives stop the recovery after the earthquake in the Republic of Croatia? That's yours, that's how much I follow culture, and I know so much that you're not doing anything, or obstructing the restoration, you, your ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117514	Comrade Beljak, you know it was a replica, so you get a warning. Dear Representative Ban Vlahek has also committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117515	Article 238 of the Minister demeans Parliament's representative, Beljak. So from today's debate, we've seen if someone disagrees with the minister or something constructive answers, she says, justifiedly, she smiles and disrespects the MPs. Dear Minister, you are here to listen to us and possibly respect our criticism, but none of it is yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117516	Okay. And it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a second warning. I'm drawing attention to that. Comrade Simičević, you also insist that this is a injured Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117517	Thank you, Vice President. Article 238 is offended and defamed by the Minister of Culture. She has a role, she has powers. Would you choose these same people who act if you eventually came to power, I don't know, but you won't come to power, so you won't choose. You have the right to object.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117518	Comrade Simičević, it was also a replica. You're getting a warning, too. Let's go to the real replicas. The esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117519	I'd like to thank the Honorable Minister. I received information from field cultural workers that it is commendable that the competitions for next year are being discussed by October 1st, and that's something good. From the materials that we have obtained you have stated that in the Republic of Croatia in culture is dominant funding from public funds both national, regional and local, but it is only oscillating because of it. So I'm wondering if you'll try to regulate these oscillations somehow in the National Development, Culture and Media Plan for the 2022-2027 period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117520	Your Honors Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117521	Thank you. This, of course, always depends on the fiscal possibilities of each budget either national, local or regional. In the 1990s, Croatia has opted for a fairly broad decentralisation in culture including funding, so we have a relatively high share of funding for local and regional communities and it is therefore important that we plan well and have stability of such funding. We see these examples, and here in some large and even in our largest city, where some institutions haven't received any more software all year long, these are really some situations that should be avoided, and therefore this setting of deadlines will certainly help to make it easier to plan and manage.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117522	We continue with individual debates. Thank you very much. So now they will speak to the esteemed representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117523	When we talk about cultural councils, the appointments of cultural institution performers can be discussed and this is the topic. However, the key topic here is that we, as parliamentary representatives, present certain views that the minister knows and is familiar with, and we have heard ourselves as mayor and minister about certain problems that we have because I come from a city that has three museums, which has one gallery from the famous artist Sikirica Stipe. We also have a cultural council, and I haven't changed it. What I've been waiting for is here, but we have a problem with our tradition, heritage since I said three museums in Franciscan, Alkar Museum, we have a museum in the Cetina region. However, we have so many treasures, so many finds, but one thing disappointed me with it is the minister introduced. You all know that Sinj has his fortress, Old Town, where in 1715 the city of Sinj of Osmajli was defended, in behalf of the miraculous Lady of Sinj. And that out of that came one of our cultures, tradition, our customs are based on that event. That's our identity, that fortress is our identity. In 2004, a project of archaeological and research works was launched, of course, and of the restoration of our fortress, and of our sacredness that we worship, and it was based on our history in this place. It is a place where we have defended ourselves from the Turks on the basis of which the chivalrous alka game that we run to honor our 1715 great-grandfathers, which we celebrate in behalf of the miraculous Lady Sinjska. And we have one precedent. This year for the first time that the ministry has not co-financed since 2004 8 million invested so far, the ministry somewhere around 2 and a half million kuna, the city of Sinj somewhere around 4 and a half million. A total of about 8 million kunas. Now, after 18 years for the first time, no funds have been granted for the fortress of Sinjska. You all know how to shoot cats. When the blue alka was most of you, this year it was not approved, no matter what the city of Sinj reported to the program. I'd like to talk about this, because it's important things. That's our identity we can show. Now here begins the days of the alka, the great ladies will be open in the city of Sinj on Friday, we have what to show, we have what to show. Sinj is a city of culture, the Cetina province, the Dalmatian Zagora, but I don't know why this boycott as it happened in Petrinja what happened and we all want to participate, yes. So did these 200,000 kunas that the city of Sinj asked for in the program to continue research, research archaeological works were found, the roads in the fortress were one very important archaeological and this is what archaeologists say and all the experts say that it was very important to continue and save and show and show that fortress and everything that was happening from that time, although there was a lot of it from, from that time of arms, from the grenades of those balls that were at that time, the walls were destroyed during Napoleon here when he was, so that's one place we have colleagues from that area and we know what the fortress of Sinia represents. We have the locality of another, we have the Aequum Ancient City, we have the same tribal to explore, we have in the Franciscan monastery something that no one has, we have meaning what we need to show stronger and stronger, but there are still unresolved and these relationships. There are a lot of museums in Sinj, but we simply try to find a solution, the county is the only one that owns it and appoints it. According to the town, Sinj is not really concerned until now, not at all,... to say that the Split-Dalmatia County donated 10,000 kuna to the town of Sinj in the last year in all 10,000 so much to the town of Sinj and the Cetinski region. Here is the former mayor's representative, Luka Brčić, and he knows that the relationship between Split-Dalmatia County is as if there is no Cetin Valley, the Cetin Valley, the Wonder Lady of Sinjska, Sinjska Alka, which is a brand, which is an alka, but so politicised that it became the right hand of the ruling politicians. It was proven a few days ago at the Prime Minister's reception, I wasn't on the list as mayor not as a parliamentary representative or a member of another party, so you turned our alku too. in... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117524	We have multiple replicas of the first respected representative of Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117525	Dear fellow Bully, I'm glad you've spent some time in your debate with us, but I'd be back to what we've been talking about today since morning. The crucial issue of this is the cultural policy strategy from the state to the local self-government because when you have a defined policy, you know where you go and when you go, and how it comes to that, then there's not too much room for lurking with funding. For that reason, I think that's exactly why no one brings strategies, because without them, it's easier to hunt in a blur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117526	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117527	I just wanted to use this pay phone and point to the problem that's happening. Here I can mention Stipe Sikirica who left all his life's work, all his life's work left the town of Sinj, we are even here in front of the registration and gallery of Sikirica Stipe. If you come to Sinj these are the symbols of the city of Sinj alkar which is... the alkar racetrack on horse, the door to the Church of the Wonder Lady of Sinj and many other works which are a symbol of our work I wanted to talk about. But to stop for the first time in 20 years after Sinjska Fortress in the Old Guard to continue archaeological research and recovery is unimaginable. I don't see what that's all about. Well, of course there's politics involved, here I was just telling you that Alka is part of us, but the Knight's Alkarian Society and the management has extended the arm of HDZ both in the county and at the state level. The mayor doesn't matter at all, they privatized their alka, that alku what ours was about to be neither SDP or HDZ or Mosto they usurped it. And they take over and literally spit on tradition. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117528	The next one is the respected representative of Raspadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117529	Your Honor, Mr. Bull. In my speech on behalf of the club, I pointed out this strange negative trend, which is that from law to law change, the number of residents within which it is mandatory to have a Council for Culture. In 2004, the legal limit was 30,000, 2013 it decreased to 20,000, and now all those who have over 10,000 inhabitants must have a cultural council. So here I am interested in your experience as mayor of Sinj, and Sinj is there between 20,000 and 30,000 so it's been up to this law since 2013, so I have the impression that you in Sinj know everyone who deals with culture. If tomorrow needs an exhibition about Stypi Sikirica that you know in the head who are people who know something about it and who can help. Then why the accumulation of red tape like this? I've never said the word in my ear, I never said it, I never said the word in my life. So, I'm saying it's an unnecessary accumulation of administration. And expenses because they take some fees. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117530	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117531	Well, the cultural council said I've come to be welcomed by the cultural council here a year has passed the same people there appointed. I'm not going to talk about the criteria and I'm not going to talk about it, of course there are people from culture and who are, of course, party related to certain parties, but it's their private choice. Whether a city like Sinj of 25,000 should have a cultural council is a legal obligation and the law has said so and we have a cultural council. Is it a tribal to cut it? That's not what I'm most professional about. Whether it is a body that increases perhaps the flow of decisions that will be slowed down in smaller units of local self-government will not, I cannot judge. Of course, it's a tribal to lend someone with more experience. But there's only one thing I'd like to mention here, if it hurts me a lot more when our traditions are being usurped, here's what I've been mentioning, the alka is a part of all of us, Dr. Franjo Tudjman said it's not the SDPs or the HDZs, it's the people's. So in Croatia I was allowed to have a political HDZ party usurp the Knight's Alkar society, literally mock it and privatize it for its party purposes And that's what we're talking about... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117532	The next is the replica of the respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117533	Your Honor. When you're talking about cultural councils if it's okay to tell us what areas you've set up a cultural council for means what areas? And secondly, how many legal persons do you have in the city of Sinj that are of particular interest to culture in the town of Sinj and in whose premises they work? Do they work in their premises in the areas of the city, county or state?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117534	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117535	So if we had these institutions that I said here, we only have three museums, we have a Franciscan museum that really has exhibits that are on the world level, but here, it's in the Franciscan monastery, we have a museum that owns the city of Sinj, basically a space, the county is the founder, it's the Cetin region Museum, so here we have the same symbiosis, we have a Knight-Alkars society where it owns a museum that is also, a modern museum. We've got some more... The Sikirica Gallery, which is in the establishment, we have these cultural institutions, however, I would once again point out that politics has drawn into some other spheres, into our traditions, our values. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can't say, the Knight-Alkar society can be an exponent of HDZ, that's the problem. Knight-Alkaric because the alka is our sacred place, and any political party here usurped, alienated from the people, gave birth to the alka to meet the criteria of political, this minister knows, behold, a few days ago at the Prime Minister's reception, it was reportedly called, when I arrived, you said, Mr. Mayor, you're not on the list at all, on the list to be accepted. Why? Because Mayor Sinj wants to belittled, but let's say the Croats because he's a member of the board, he needs to be raised.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117536	The next replica, the respected MP, Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117537	Thank you, Vice President of HS, Mr. Reiner, Mr. Bull's esteemed colleague. I would like once again for the sake of the Croatian public to clarify, so it is clear to every reasonable person that, without politics and political processes, nothing can happen at both local and national level. But the real democracy is the one that ensures such processes of democracy within society because here, let's specifically talk within the city of Sin that then national and local citizens are free and when we talk about what you did about Covid's certificates and everything else, but let's now talk about culture, especially Sinjska alka. What you as mayor can do and what a national state should do to really make this whole society free and that Sinjska alka is the culmination of that beauty, goodness and cultural manifestations at the level of our entire country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117538	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117539	Thank you very much. Interesting question, that's what I like to talk about. Alka is part of identity, Alka is part of our history, part of our tradition, part of faith, part of culture, all symbolized by Alka in essence. On 1. Sinjski alka, Dr. Francis Tudjman, when he was as elected president of the '90s, said that Alka symbolized the survival of people in these areas where I come from, and of course no one usurped her, she must not be a party cell. Here we are talking about Alka as a symbol, where the symbol and culture of faith, tradition, survival, honor, love, identity has turned one administration that is shut down, and they are born and they choose themselves. They manage everything, not only with the Knights-Alkar society, with health care in Sinj, have the greatest influence towards their sponsor HEP, the greatest influence of anything and they alienated that Alka, however, the Alku triba open to the people so that the whole wider community can vote and choose the key people who will lead this very important association, not the association, but the Sinj Alka which is the symbol... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117540	Thank you, thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected minister, Nina Obulen Koržinek, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117541	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here, I think it works, if one of the citizens of Sinj is watching this, I think it's important that we answer some things. As for the financing, Mr. Honorable Parliamentary Representative, we discussed this, and in part for this comment that was on the earthquake earlier this year, the Ministry of Culture and the media was more than 50% of the national funds that were otherwise intended for funding in the rest of Croatia allocated to emergency measures in the area of earthquake affected areas, for all those urgent resolutions that were not acceptable to EU funding, and then I explained to you, and now publicly, the only reason why this programme did not enter the competition this year is because it is not, it is not about emergency research measures but research, as you have said yourself, which have been going on since 2004, I have instructed you to report to the competition for a 6-month period, and I think that Croatia must show solidarity. The other thing, they asked you about some institutions, you only mention three museums. And Sinju has a large number of cultural institutions that are also parts, and organizations that are financed regularly by the Ministry of Culture and Media and.../incomprehensible/... Sinjski pučičke theatre and the Cultural and Art Centre Sinj and Klapa Association of Our Lady Sinjski, and so on, etc., all are regularly funded on the basis of the decisions of the cultural councils we are talking about here today, which worry about balanced regional representation. The government, regardless of who was in Sinj, invested only in the Sinj region museum over, in the Alkar Museum over 20 million to get one museum we're all proud of, and this government where I work as a minister, as far as I know, during my term, you and the previous mayor weren't from HDZ, so we had nothing to do with the party, we took over, provided additional funding to finance professional curators who would take care of that wealth. So it's our government's decision, so I don't think it's a good thing that it's not talking about it, and the last thing about the meeting, since I've been there and I have to say it, you've come to the government's port, you've been invited as mayor to this meeting, like your predecessor and you've been invited to all the meetings so far, you've been told that a fellow from the protocol is coming to pick you up, she's gone, you've already left, so let's just say that you haven't been invited, which is not true, you know, Mayor, you and me. You were invited, protocol came to you, you went, windows opened, and there was screaming behind you, Mayor, where you were going. You obviously did it so you could say what you said here today. That's not good because it's not true. It's not our position, it's not our government's position, it's not the government's position that called for a meeting, it's an ugly manipulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117542	My colleague Bulj, you're too late. You can't put any damage to the Rules of Procedure after it's over. Uh, but here's your line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117543	Well, you can't convince me of what's not true. First of all, the Knight's Alkarian Society and the administration is absolutely in the hands of the HDZ, and I humbly tell you about management, about the alka, the alka is the sacred thing that I will defend, and I came here with a cap, and I came to the port saying you're not on my list. You can check that out, but here's when I'm not as mayor on the list, I'm not on the list, so I'm not saying in Sinjo like that, we are, and we have our own words. Therefore, you will not teach me the Knight's Alkarian Society which had its candidate who had lost the election to somehow get to the budget, and the former mayor had been at the service of HDZ, of course, with you, did whatever the trial was, however, and I am at the service of the people and at the service of every minister and government. I called you yesterday I couldn't believe that 200,000 kuna was taken down for the fort, I'm going to find the funds, not the triba or... And Dinko Bosnjak, who swears, is never that for the Knight's Alkarian society, and they run the Knight's Alkarian society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know why? Only because they're in HDZ. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Except that they are your obedient And this remains a lie. [[Agreement: Thank you, thank you, colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117544	The reply of the respected Minister Koržinek Obuljen.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117545	Thank you, Mr. Representative, if you can't understand that at a time of such a disaster as the Sisak-Moslavina County and this part of Croatia need to show solidarity and we can delay research within 6 months, not to bring something down, then I don't know, then maybe we don't read the same news or visit the same ends of Croatia, so we can't show the same level of empathy. And I needed to say this because I was there and I'm going to say it again, they opened the window, they yelled at you, a colleague of the protocol went down, you turned around, you didn't come obviously just to be able to say what you were saying, but here's your conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117546	My colleague Bulj, you've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117547	So the minister hurt Article 238 because she disrespects the MP. Of course I came in, and since I'm told I'm not on the list, how I'm going to get in, what I'm supposed to be praying for, and they weren't yelling for the Alkars, there weren't any alkars there, mostly, were the management of the Knight's Alkars society. The management of the HDZ of Sinj. So I have to tell you that this usurp was made and I'm asking you about Petrinja I was collecting personal humanitarian aid and first came from Sinj help and water before... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117548	Thank you very much, it wasn't this one, pal Bulj, please stop, it wasn't any injuries to the Rules of Procedure but you had a replica, so you get a warning. Respected representative Grba Bujevic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117549	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, it is very good that the Government of the Republic of Croatia invested 20 million in the Museum of Blue Alkara, which is one tradition and one valuable thing to be done. It's a wonder that at this time when cultural heritage sites in the area of earthquakes have been damaged, it's a wonder that someone doesn't understand it. Well, of course it's more important to cover any object of cultural heritage than to now in these situations, especially with your explanation that this will all be regulated in the next period in which this is. Misunderstanding comes from those who shouldn't do it like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117550	Your Honors Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117551	Thank you, that was a comment. Indeed, this year we told everyone we had to cut off funds that went regularly, we know where we directed them, and in 1.9, the competition is again being held. Of course, we'll continue to rebuild Sinjska fort and all the other monuments because they're witnesses to our identity and heritage.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117552	Thank you very much. The next one will be a respected representative of Zdravka Busic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117553	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the context of the final proposal of the Law on Cultural Councils and the financing of public needs in culture such as, as chairman of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, I certainly support the planned activities of the Council, especially those concerning the promotion of Croatian, Croatian and artistic creation abroad and the preservation of Croatian identity in general. Within the government programme of the Republic of Croatia, the central state office for Croats outside Croatia, advice, advice from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Of course, the Ministry of Culture implements a series of activities aimed at preserving the identity of Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. To what I have witnessed many times during my numerous meetings with the Croatian minority and Croatian emigrants around the world, of course, in the country as well as in outside Croatia. From a broader aspect of observation, from a broader actually one broader view of all of this opens up a series of possibilities, a series of possibilities of cooperation and the whole, I would say a range of various activities both at national and local level. I would especially like to emphasise here the role of local, local communities and counties to co-operate with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and in particular, I would like to highlight here the Croatian national minority living in 12, 12 European countries. Such co-operation would contribute to the preservation of Croatian identity beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia, and would certainly enrich their cultural offer and bring economic gain, new incentives, and perhaps certainly encourage new cooperation and bring new ideas. Here is a recent and very good example I would like to give a round table on the topic "Croatian outside the Republic of Croatia" titled "The Challenges of Co-life" organized by the Mayor of Osijek-Baranja County of Mr Ivan Anusic, which took place at the end of May of this year in Topol on the day of Osijek-Baranja County and 300. St. Peter and Paul in Topola. I personally attended this and it was really very successful where they were, this Round Table was held with the presence of senior officials and representatives of the Croatian national minority from Hungary, from Vojvodina or Serbia and Montenegro, or from Boka Kotorska and it was really successful and I think it was a good, very good example of how and how we could achieve stronger cooperation and, of course, it was mostly culture, but also other cooperation, so I would really point out that as a good one. The cooperation that I have cited here as an example really contributes to a healthy exchange of experiences and knowledge and contributes and, in fact, the exchange of knowledge and transfer of knowledge or we can say whatever we want, enriched of course and all of this is enriched by the cultural content of the countries where these generations of Croats have grown up. I therefore propose to plan the annual work programme and the financial plan and the financial plan to meet the representatives of the diaspora with various cultural contents and of course Croatians from the country. In cultural activities such as archival, library, publishing and bookmaking, and cultural art such as dramatic and dance art, musical and musical context, literature, especially I would stress cultural artistic amateurism and other Croatian creations outside of Croatia. There is a great area of cooperation that we can all devote ourselves to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117554	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117555	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I'm sure we Croats are right to point out that we belong to Western civilization precisely because of our rich cultural heritage. I come from the region of Dalmatia or the Dalmatian mountain, I know that you are very well aware of this area and that many amateur folklore and other artistic compositions are very much reviving these spaces, in terms of culture it is enough to mention Vrlika, “Ero from the world”, so “Actors in Zagvozd” and often you mentioned this time with your enthusiasm with the clear ministry and local and regional units, but also with your enthusiasm complement it, so that they also, at the same time, participate in their shows and among Croats outside the country, so here is what you think of such initiatives further?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117556	Dear Representative Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117557	Thank you very much. Well, here's Mr. Representative, you really said, I would just confirm all this because watch when we watch this especially if you emphasized especially here in this case you Croat from BiH, so it's all worn out, no. Let's say one "Ero from the Last World" when it's performed in Vrlica if you just saw, and even the performers, and especially the audience, believe that there would be half of it, because one, one, is a Croatian culture there, we can't separate, it's impossible, regardless of the borders, there are, okay, we respect it, but culture is one and especially here when something is being performed in Imotski, so just try, and I've been on these performances hundreds of times, there, it's all intertwined and actually it's all intertwined with one, and culture is actually the same people and that people are the same and in fact it's the same language they say They have the same customs, cultural. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117558	The next replica is the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117559	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, this is, this is the law and does not touch cooperation with Croats outside the country, but as you have been elected to XI. You are an electoral unit and a representative of all Croatians or citizens of Croatia who have citizenship, do you think that we can strengthen cooperation and that we can participate more actively in the transfer of cultural goods to our countrymen from around the world, and I think, first of all, in BiH and in BiH, that is, we Croats from our country to our guests, and offer them cultural facilities that they have no opportunity to enjoy here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117560	Dear Representative Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117561	Thank you very much. Well, thank you, Mr. Simicevic, this could be very much said. Let's say I pointed out one archival structure as many, the Croats outside Croatia were creating a tremendous amount, so there are many literary works. Here's my colleague Stier's going to say, we were recently in Argentina, there's an entire archive structure that we should transfer to Croatia. These are people who created serious, serious literature and eventually wrote the history that needs to be studied so that we should think a lot about it. I know there is a lot of work to be done on this, many are active in this and our end and national library, as well as our Croatian State Archives, however, there is a lot of it as I have highlighted the room for cooperation and further and further progress and cooperation, and in fact where we should put a little more attention to this... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117562	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117563	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of this Busic, you spoke as a representative selected in XI. the election unit as chairman of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia on the importance of culture and cultural heritage in the integration of native emigrant Croatia, the preservation of the identity of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. What I should, and on the trail of this response to the previous replica, perhaps should be highlighted by the same and perhaps better knowledge of the contribution that Croatian emigrants have made to Croatian culture. Perhaps the work of cultural councils in our cities that will also promote the work of those who contributed to Croatian culture, who lived in southern, North America, Western Europe, Australia. There's a lot of them. Now they wouldn't be able to name them, but they may not be known enough in their homeland.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117564	Dear Representative Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117565	Thank you, Mr. Stier. Here I am glad that you have said a lot, and I am very sorry that in Croatia in general very little we know about the contribution of Croats outside Croatia and Croatian culture. And I'm personally very sorry because here you are, if you went to New Zealand, Australia, let's say South America as we saw it. Well, the people of these countries admire the wealth of our culture. Let's say especially the folklore they sing when you hear it. Let's say here in Chile or Argentina they sing all Croatian songs and learn that, they read from their phones, even if they know the notes, everything, but even Croatian they don't speak. So it's also when you see the benches being performed, the folklore they perform, works of art that create not only in literature, but also in art, of all kinds of art So you need to take a little bit more care about it, so I hope... [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117566	Thank you. Dear Representative Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117567	Thank you, Vice President. counterpart Bušić, the coronation of King Tomislav in the Danube field will be a major jubilee in 2025. It is the most important event in Croatian history, so here you are and the minister please let's focus on it, let's make a little contribution to it. It is a very important moment, a series of projects are being prepared that require our help, so as presidents of the Committee on Croatians outside the country, and since this is very important, I ask that special attention be paid to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117568	Dear Representative Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117569	Thank you very much. I'm really glad you brought that up. Minister Oblizen will remember that there was something like this in 1995 that I was present alone, so thank you. Here I hope that, hopefully, we will keep it so that it will be interesting and we will have the opportunity to regain what it means for Croatian history and what it means for Croatian culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117570	Thank you very much. Now we're going to stop at this point, given that one hour has passed, so we're going to go to the point of view. Uh, now. Since I have information that IT is working, we will continue immediately, we do not need a break, and we will continue to work on the Final Proposal of the Law on Cultural Councils and the financing of public needs in culture and we will go to the closing words on behalf of clubs. Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative of Boška Ban Vlahek will finally speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117572	Thank you. In my previous debate on behalf of the club, I did not question who it was for experts who were fundamental on this subject. If the requirements for abolishing political parallelism and professionalising decisions on the award of money and governance in culture are justified, the question can be asked how we will lead cultural policy. How some party or candidate will be accountable to the citizens who elected them in the elections, if they hand over all power in culture to some non-party and professional personnel who will lead everything in quotes, transparently. As a result, all cultural policy remains as a human policy. If the party or candidate elected in the elections doesn't know what a culture centre should do in terms of what objectives it should achieve, within which time and for whose good or symphony orchestra, if we do not have a democratically responsible cultural policy, then we must exorcise it with political-like personnel. Directors from our team, board members from our party drive who will choose just such directors and our artists to advise us from the cultural councils, to assign money to our artists, associations, etc. This Law does not correct it but further strengthens it. I'll do it again. This final bill is absolutely unacceptable for several reasons. First of all, there is no reason for any draft law to be referred to in the procedure before the adoption of a national development plan for culture and media from 2022 to 2027, which, as far as we know, is in the works. The strategy must precede the law. From this proposal, it appears that the HDZ's cultural and media strategy will consist of a pool of missing and superficial laws, even more deficient and superficial, with the financing of a public debate that does not exist at all. So I repeat, as long as the laws are passed before the strategy, they are willing to give public debates and then neglect all the more serious proposals of the profession, it is clear that our culture and art is becoming, first of all, the existence of large HDZ bureaucratic cultural machinery would have reason to exist and be able to vilify public money however it pleases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117573	On behalf of the Representatives' Club, Mosta will finally speak to the respected representative Nino Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117574	My colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll briefly sum up what I gave in a speech on behalf of the club and in a single speech. The reason the Bridge Club can't accept this bill. So the law failed to find a reasonable measure around the council for culture. We believe that this should be returned, that 30,000 inhabitants at the level of the unit of local self-government would be a reasonable measure where cultural councils are needed. Likewise, 9 of the law has failed to define more precisely the draft law, more specifically to define the conditions for membership in cultural councils. We also believe that they need to be strengthened by powers where these councils are needed. They're certainly not in the small environments of 10,000 inhabitants. We see that here goes on one process, one of the same model that we witnessed in the change of the law on HRT that happened nine years ago, which was completely devised by the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board. They were taken from them all powers and placed exclusively in the hands of the director appointed by politics, i.e. The current ruling majority we've seen is not well. And now we see that this similar model shifts to the lowest levels in the institutions of culture. The next thing we think is bad in this bill and what is unacceptable for us is this dimension where the Ministry of Culture begins to deal with real estate. That shouldn't have room in this law at all. Then, this 5% of the funding for programmes and projects that can be awarded without a public call is problematic directly in situations and some undefined urgency. It is then not good this 90-day deadline for the decision to announce the allocation of funds. That deadline needs to be shortened. Then we think that in practice this article will create problems relating to the choice of v.d. that we consider more logical to be as it is so far, to be v.d. in that period for up to one year, so until the election of the Director. We think V.D. should be chosen from people inside the house. Then, in Article 15, it is necessary to fix the tips I listed. I do not understand how this was at all the final version of the law that had not been noticed before, and in this article 15, I would like to add to this article the prominent Croatian identity, Croatian culture and heritage, and to remove the fashionable vogue of nonsense that is present in this article 15, which I have detailed. For these reasons, such a bill is unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117575	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative, Rade Simičević, will speak finally, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117576	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. So the Final Proposal of the Law on Cultural Councils and the financing of public needs in culture. This law has no dramaturgy as some colleagues and colleagues have already said the proposed law, which is a lauded and adapted time in which we live, governing the coverage and definition of public needs in culture, is in line with the procedure of granting funds to finance public needs in culture and the decision-making process for financing at the level of the Republic of Croatia and at the level of units of local and regional (area) self-government. This law allows for multiannual funding of programmes and projects in order to achieve continuity in the planning of funding for development infrastructure projects, thereby reducing financial uncertainty and sustainability of the system. They shall be ensured, the procedure for the award of property owned by the Republic of Croatia and units of local and regional self-government, natural and legal persons operating in the field of culture shall be more clearly arranged to highlight their advisory role, more precisely the reasons for the potential conflict of interest of the members of the cultural council, the obligation to exclude them from the debate and decision-making, as well as sanctioning non-compliance with those provisions. A particular emphasis is placed on ensuring the stability of funding institutions in culture. The text of the proposed law has been completed in accordance with the legal and no-technical provisions, according to the observations of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee, in relation to the draft law which passed the first reading in the Croatian Parliament. Following the debate at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, a proposal on the need to prescribe the tasks of the Administrative Board of Institutions in Culture, Article 37(2), which states that the Administrative Council in its work programme and the development of institutions in culture on the proposal of the Director adopts the financial plan and annual accounting, adopts the statutes with the previous consent of the Founder, adopts other general acts, institutions in culture in accordance with the statutes and conducts other tasks by law, by means of an act establishing and statute. A proposal on the Governing Council system has been adopted and that several members of the Governing Council should be from the institution itself. In accordance with this Article, paragraph 4 has been added in Article 37, which says the Administrative Council, which has 5 members, shall appoint a founder from the ranks of prominent cultural, scientific and legal, economic and other experts. And if it wasn't founded by the professional staff of the institution in the culture of their ranks, then one member is elected by all employees. The adopted proposal to prescribe more professional training as a condition for the appointment of members of the Board of Directors, and given that it is sometimes difficult for local communities to find a person who fulfils the requirements of professional training. Furthermore, the proposal to appoint the director of the institution in culture has been adopted with the previous opinion of the Governing Council, and Article 40(1) to (3) of the proposed law stipulates that the director of the institution in culture is appointed by the minister responsible for culture, i.e. the executive body of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government. Furthermore, the applicant shall amend Article 40 and shall add paragraph 9 which shall be prescribed if the founder, i.e. the founders referred to in paragraph 3, 4 of this Article, fails to resolve and appoint the director of the institution in a culture to which the term of office of the director of the institution has expired the authority responsible for the exercise of supervision of the legality of the work and of the general acts of the institution in culture referred to in Article 9. 44th of this law, supervision of the legality of the work and the general acts of the institution in culture shall be carried out by the Ministry of Culture to relieve the duties of the Director and shall appoint the Executive Director without the exercise of a public tender until the appointment of the Director or the Director of the Director by the Founder for a year at the most. HDZ club will support proposed law with special satisfaction with the goal of progress in Croatian culture. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117577	Finally, on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, Urša Raukar Gamulin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117578	Thank you. Here in this final one again I will say that we regret that the opportunity to adopt a fundamental change that would really upgrade the cultural system and that no proposal for a broad cultural community has been actively involved in public consultation to wait for the National Development Plan of Culture and Media because if there is so many years there is no reason not to wait about a year for two laws to be drawn up for these very sensitive areas and to include the wider professional and interested public. The process of drafting this law was not transparent enough, unfortunately it did not include a wider cultural community which has shown I repeat a great interest in participating in the drafting of this law, a large number of remarks and proposals were sent in the public debate but almost nothing was accepted. A colleague from HDZ Krstulović Opar said in his statement that he was a little jealous that he did not have such a law while he was the head of the institution in culture and mayor of Split and this clearly points to the main problem of this law in that part of him that norms the management of institutions in culture because he still weighs on the side of the government and reduces the protection and influence of employees as well as the wider social community. We will repeat that it is not good for both the director and the board of directors to choose one person in power to lose any possibility of a transparent election, and it is a clear possibility of politicising institutions in culture by choosing loyal people. The minister does not hide that she is unreservedly on the side of the director, but I invite you, Madam Minister, to take a look at the other side of the staff, because they are very much responsible for achieving the directoral programmes, so for the overall cultural life in Croatia, and often artists and cultural workers are employed in institutions both by pressures and humiliations. I believe that we will all agree that cultural art programs would be maintained without a director, but without artists and cultural workers, certainly not. And you're not just the secretary of directors and intensities, you're the minister of the entire sector, and I'm asking you not to forget that. And I have to say, I'm sorry that my colleagues aren't there when Mr. Krstulović Opra started to mention the SIZs by insinuating some of the former times by trying to difaminate the opposition, which we saw and we just didn't get lonely in this assembly, but I still have to remind him that in 1990, according to the KPH statistics in HDZ, there were 100,000 members in three waves, so it's clear that the SIZs in HDZ know much more than in the opposition. But let's go back to the laws of culture. Dear Minister for Good Political Practice points to problems and failures in environments where HDZ is not in power. I understand, justifiable. But then I invite you ministers to look at your own failures as well. I hope you don't think you're infallible, and those failures are continuously non-transparent processes in the making of laws and regulations, according to the assessment of the large cultural community. In the administrations of Ministers Biskupić and Mesic, both of us from HDZ witnessed transparent processes, numerous working groups whose compositions were publicly published and members' names were not covered by a veil of secrets and a wider public debate was held and the opinions of professions and cultural workers were respected. And that is why, and again and again, we call on both the Minister and the Ministry to return to such protocols in the making of laws and regulations and to further democratisation and make them more transparent, such opening of the ministry will be given to both cultural workers and Croatian culture, as well as only the Ministry. Finally, we hope that at least the amendments will be discussed, the proposals are that they focus primarily on improving legislative proposals in order to improve certain processes in culture, they are deprived of political interests and therefore we hope that they will be accepted and will not experience the established fate of the opposition amendments, which is that they are automatically rejected simply because they are opposition. The purpose of these discussions should be to adopt as high-quality laws as possible, regardless of which side of the assembly comes proposals and remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117579	On behalf of the centre and GLAS club, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117580	Honorable MPs. If this bill were to be summed up in one sentence then I would sum it up like this, there would be a lot more politics, and a lot less independent cultural scenes. This general senselessness and inability to regulate and advance the system has led to a system of rules that was previously bad additionally in this bill being reversed. I am specifically referring to the rules under which it will be allocated to the use of state-owned property owned by local self-government units. What this Law has done, therefore, instead of finally forming registers of state property, city and all, that these registers are opened to the public, to introduce transparent models of monitoring fees for the use of these public property, so there is nothing despite the fact that the State Office for Audition year by year warns that it is actually a legal obligation, but it doesn't matter what it doesn't have, now we're just going to do it so that the power to share these properties from a resorient ministry, it's currently a real estate portfolio, the Ministry of State property is transferred to the culture ministry's portfolio when it comes to some kind of building, property cultural purposes. But that's not enough for HDZ either. It is not enough that the culture minister has something to deal with, but a rule has been introduced that these properties can also be shared by a direct contract. So if at some point and there are rules that define procedures, criteria, deadlines, all of this can be as a movement of feathers prescribed and analyzed by a person who at some point has a certain political power and authority. It's just political discretion. It will be of no use to culturalists, but it will have for those who, behold, with the minister, can get coffee, in some hallway, in some non-transparent agreement to achieve something that will not be available to others in such a way. When cultural councils were introduced, it was said that this was done in order to make the process more transparent in culture, to allow the profession to say its own words, and to reduce autonomy, or the will of any minister, any executive local government, that was intensity. We have not achieved this intensity nor can we achieve it because there are no criteria for deciding who will be appointed and some cultural council. Not only is there no indication in the law what these criteria would be, whether the recognition of an art project at international level, the years of internships, respect by other culturalists, no, none of that exists. No culture has been developed, and the term political culture itself is often, often, but unfortunately and wrongly used, so there is no political culture to say by which key it will be, according to which parameters the candidates will arrive. So, how it will be, as the minister says, so regardless of what there is a competition or a public call, there will be the will of the minister or here again, the mayor who will decide who will help him evaluate and score cultural projects. That's not transparency. Not every public tender is also a guarantee that there will be no exclusively political distribution of public budget funds. If we want transparency, then we need to say in advance what are the criteria by which someone is chosen, what are the criteria by which some assets are later shared. But it is for the Croatian political scene of science fiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117581	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, final. Excuse me, uh, before I give you my word, a colleague of Shimičević has committed an injury to the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117582	I thank the chairman of HS. He's been injured. 238. Here's a quote my colleague said a lot more politics than the law. This is actually pure paranoia, the law has not yet entered into force, and the colleague is actually accusing the minister of having sinned about the law and these are actually about the typical words of opposition psychics.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117583	Okay, that was a replica, that's what you know, so you get a warning. This, note 2, this, and as I started to say, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, will finally speak to the respected representative Željko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117584	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. My colleague, I think colleague, I think there's been a little misunderstanding, I think a colleague wanted to say a lot more politics, and not much culture, probably, I guess. But good. It doesn't matter. Here, let me just draw one more attention to what I've turned on before. Let us not forget our painful points in our country. bribery, corruption, nepotism, that's why our young people are leaving the country, that's why they're not coming back to the country again, and this is another law where we've missed the opportunity for the part that's controversial and that we've warned, to correct it, to change it, and to actually prevent opportunities for such things to happen. This includes, in particular, the part related to the management of real estate and the lease of real estate by direct contract between the executive authority and the institution to which the property is leased. We have warned this, I hope that, over a shorter period, we will have amendments and additions to that law, that we will change that part and that we will all be happy and satisfied afterwards. In addition, let us not forget that it is also the executive part of the power to appoint board members and appoint a director, which is also not good, it would be better to do so in another way, to do so on the representative body. Unfortunately, we also have another one, which is not, that example is a little different. In fact, when the council is founded in, in units of local self-government up to 10 or 10,000 inhabitants, these councils are actually founded on a representative body, which is good. The question, however, is which proposals will pass. This is what all of us who were in the city councils, who were in the congregations, who were in the municipal councils, know what problems are and if there is no understanding between the majority and the opposition, we have a big problem because in fact, most of us are always pushing people who are not often able to do certain jobs. And then there's the problem. After that, there is really this politics and then there is this sentence more, too much politics, and too little culture. I think most of the law was a good effort. What's accepted is that I think it's accepted by will and that we are, we must be satisfied with that. We would be happy if all our demands were accepted. I see a few amendments have come and we will vote before the law is passed on these amendments. I hope that some more may even be accepted before that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117585	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Minister Nina Obulen Koržinek will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117586	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, at the end of this debate today, I would like to begin by thanking you for all the suggestions that we have both heard in the first and second readings. What we could do between the first and second readings we respected, and the same thing was with a public debate as with this law, as with other laws. A broad public debate has been held, and most of the remarks we have been able to appreciate have been respected. Maybe this is the moment to say if I don't know more than a dozen people organized to send the same comment to a public debate you can only adopt this once you can't take a dozen more times so it might seem like some cacophony, but our ministry is very serious about the public debate and we always respect everything we can. One of the topics that was repeatedly highlighted here was the issue of adopting a strategy and because of those MPs and MPs who talked about it, but even more for the cultural public, I would like to repeat that the dynamics of work on both the strategy and the new laws were conditioned by Covid, and I have clearly communicated through all that time that I did not think that the moment of such a threat is the moment in which you can, when it is completely uncertain when cultural life will be restarted and under what conditions would be unserious and impossible to bring strategy at that moment. And that's the only reason. That's what I've talked about many times. The strategy is now under way and therefore a broad public debate will be held on it again, and I hope that we will draw up a document that will also be useful to the government, the ministry, but also to all units of local and regional self-government. This law, which is not of course no mega law, I will point out that there are 53 articles that I think are well governed by our cultural system. He corrects, the law corrects some of the indeterminations and doubts that existed in the implementation of the laws so far. Nice funding, management and decision-making systems are coordinated and a relatively simple legal framework is actually created which will then allow for better management and making decisions in a clearer and more transparent manner. What I would like to highlight as very important is the reflection in the nomenclature, in the definitions set out in the law of the need and development of culture and art. I would certainly point out the funding issues in the part of setting deadlines. I would certainly once again point out the need to move towards years of funding, which precisely regulates and has been the demands of cultural workers in recent years. As for the Institute of Real Estates, we consider it one of the most important segments of this law. When the article is carefully read, it is very clear that the Government will adopt a regulation on criteria and will be very precise when and under what conditions real estate can be allocated. Such decisions will be made by local authorities, however, a situation in which any commercially interesting public space is almost impossible to put on, in the function of culture, we believe that it is not acceptable. When I talk about criteria, I regret that several times in the debates, something that is not in any way related to reality is highlighted, and that is that there are no criteria for making financing decisions, quite the opposite. The criteria exist, the criteria are set by cultural councils, they exist and now, they will exist in the future and are redefined every year, starting with the effects of last year's funding. We place a special emphasis on the stability of funding in this law. As I said on the board and here in the debate, unfortunately, there are very many situations where decisions are made irregularly, intransparently, and that I will repeat the question of both responsibilities and political cultures that we are constantly raising the scale. We do it as a ministry, let's hope that's how the units of local and regional self-government will behave. Finally, what I would like to point out is that the ministry and I, personally, each time in each debate and in a public debate that precedes and in discussions in this high house, are considering all the concrete proposals that we receive. It is difficult if someone is referred to the law, not to make any concrete suggestion or to talk about certain situations that simply do not come out of the legal text, then it is difficult to react to it, but we accept that it is a rhetoric that is sometimes heard in this high home and that we must all be prepared to do so even though I would personally like to talk more about what is really proposed in the law, not what we think is written here, without writing there. Personally as a minister and as a member of the government, I am sure that the adoption of this law will achieve the basic objectives that we have set for ourselves, therefore more transparent cultural financing, clearer procedures, raising a scale when we talk about the criteria for those who decide and manage, and in that sense I certainly hope that in voting this law, this draft final draft law will receive broad support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117587	Thank you, we have three replicas, the first respected representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117588	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, through the debate and in the first reading and in the second reading, the thought of the strategy has been pulled all along and you have also referred to the strategy in your final speech and explained that the subject of the crown, the covid, everything else, the work plan and the rest. I'm not going to ask you when the strategy will be adopted, because it depends on a number of other things, but I'm asking you because you didn't refer to that, when you plan on sending the strategy to a public debate. It's something I assume in your plan and the Ministry's programme there is, it's something you can answer without making you answer something incorrect or wrong because then depending on the remark, depending on what you get in the public debate, I guess it'll take some time for the strategy to see the light of day, so my question is very specific, when you plan to refer the strategy to a public debate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117589	Dear Minister Koržinek Obuljen.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117590	The adoption of the strategy is related to the national plan, related to the national development of the strategy. We've started and we've appointed a task force and publicly published names, she's done two meetings so far. Preparation, I think, by the end of this week, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow will be the first time targets and basic measures will be announced, it will be the first round of public debate, after which, at the 9th month, when we gather all these comments, we will make another round of the same public debate, and I expect that by the end of this year we will have a national plan adopted. This is the answer, and an analysis of the state or national report on culture as I have said has been completed, has been done by more than 30 authors, has 500-th of the card, unfortunately finished just before the covid, but we have decided to publish it as it is, he is in a fracture and I believe he will be an integral part of this process and he will be thinking until summer, our summer break published.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117591	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117592	Dear Ministers, as you have seen from our presentations almost the price of the opposition, there have been no major objections, the remarks have come from the ranks of representatives who know the situation in culture, who know this situation in cultural institutions, probably rightly, we do not know it as representatives, we have looked at what is not good in the law and we have tried to distract it. What you have to admit is that the law is legible and that we know what's waiting for us, it's certainly because it's not written there that we're going to have 15 regulations passed by the minister, we have two regulations that apply to patterns that are actually irrelevant, it's about reporting, so we know that everything that's written in the law is going to be implemented. What you still resent is that you have given too much authority to the executive authority in JLS and I really think that if we want to have a transparent, transparent culture, if we have a transparent decision-making in the field of culture in JLS and if we really want it to be a culture in the service of the people it needs to change a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117593	Thank you. Dear Minister Oblisen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117594	Thank you. As you have noticed from the first to the second reading, we have indeed adopted a large number of remarks from the parliamentary debate. We'll see, we've got some amendments to consider, that's what you can do in the second reading. After careful consideration, long talks with numerous and mayors of positions and opposition and city councils by analysing what is happening at the local level with full, with full conviction and conscience we have proposed this solution in which it is in the hands of the executive authority. I will repeat, at local levels because of the great lack of interest in culture result is usually such a change in the municipal library business, we give you one in the administrative council theater, you give us someone on the local road, it's not right, it's not good and it's weak culture and I'm convinced this will give you more courage to criteria and expertise.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117595	Thank you. Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117596	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers here you mentioned several times the procedure of granting property owned by the state and regional local self-government to legal and physical persons who are cultural employees. You've said it three times or how much it's gonna work out. To me, it's not clear to me that people can now ask you a question that you're going to invite me to coffee at Ban Jelačić Square and say which you like the space, here you go without, without any procedure, so I simply can't believe it's a serious question and that it's referred in such a way to you as a criticism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117597	Dear Minister Oblisen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117598	Thank you. So the criteria are clearly defined. It is an obligation to adopt a regulation. It is clear that only in public proceedings can real estate be awarded. The reason why the possibility of direct assignment was put is simply you can have in a city, I don't know someone mentioned KUD Unity, you don't have in Split dozens of CUDs that have 100 years of tradition, you have one. And if you decide to give such a kud a place to work then it's no bargaining but to worry about your tradition. So, it'll be quite clear, it's been happening so far, but it wasn't clearly arranged. We're going to clear this up now, and I think it's going to be for the benefit of culture and art.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117599	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We will vote on it when the conditions are met. As announced, the next item will begin at 3 o'clock, so I'm giving up until 3 o'clock. Party at 14.32 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117645	Dear colleagues and colleagues continue to work, I apologize a little late because the president of the government had a press conference, but here we are almost in this academic district, so we can move on. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.16 HOURS]] First: - Proposal to launch a trust issue with William Berosu, Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is proposed by 32 MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 116. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 125 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The government has delivered a statement, so I would like to ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation. An additional explanation will be given by a respected colleague, Ivana Kekin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117646	Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117647	And sorry, break, you just needed a little while ago, here's a colleague of Reiner's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117648	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament I must say, I must first request a natural break of 10 minutes on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. [[Intruder: Go back to your seat.]] Some things in this assembly are already getting a little bit I'd say bizarre, some might say comical even though they're not very comical, although the word comedian doesn't match the dignity of this assembly. This is the third time, for the third time in two years, the opposition has asked, or raised, the question of trust. William Berosu, Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, knows that this and that requirement will go the same way as they did the previous two countries. It won't work. And I want to make it very clear that it will not succeed because the ruling majority, the very word implies the majority, but because this proposal is so superficial, so pointless, so weakly justified that as the previous two, it simply becomes immaterial. And I'm surprised that such proposals are even made, and I don't know what it wants to achieve down there that people actually see that the obvious opposition doesn't have the strength to even argue their proposals for a question of trust to a minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117649	The apartment is approved. Second request from my colleague Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117650	Thank you. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club, and to actually remind myself once again that we've come to this moment and another request for the recall of Minister Beros. Now that you've mentioned that it's cataract to ask for the third time a minister's resignation, you haven't asked yourself, so how did Willy Beros deserve his opposition three times, his impeachment or his mistrust? How did we get to that moment? Is it possible that Croatia is in the top 10 countries by the death of millions of people in Corona? Is it perhaps because Minister Beros failed to obtain the agreement of any stakeholders on the reform he proposes? Is it possible that because Mr. Willy Beros himself as minister allowed further outsours and the payment of huge amounts, hundreds of millions of money to Medikol for the use of equipment that would be far cheaper for us to buy it ourselves? Or maybe we came to this point because he was having an affair with Cuspis? We may have come to this moment and the third recall, and because Willy Beroš as minister was unable to ensure the implementation of a law guaranteeing the right to access a safe abortion in health institutions in the Republic of Croatia. We may have come to this point and because our health care is constantly generating the same problems, and they are being applied to the same solutions. We're also talking about debt hospitals. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117651	Thank you very much. The break is approved. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117652	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I am looking for this pause not because we need to agree on something but because we need to ask whether Mr. Reiner, as a doctor, has noticed his condition in the Croatian health system. Did he notice what the waiting lists were? Did he notice that there are patients who are scheduled for medical examinations in a year or two or who do not pass it or who do not notice it? Dear colleagues and colleagues, if Mr. Berosh had done his job properly, no one would have asked for his recall. Not all members of the government came to this club, not all members of the government had to go through this kind of questioning as Mr. Beros will go through. And the reason why his impeachment is sought, or the reasons why his impeachment is sought, is numerous. From spectacular public procurement in his sector where a device is paid 2 and a half times more than when it is obtained by privates, so the state pays 5-6 million kuna more for the same apparatus to the fact that something almost unremembered happened for his term, which is that Croatian hospitals are being stopped from delivering medicines, are indicators of why Mr. Beroš must leave, and I am sure that there is a second round of elections in Split, so as Mr. Filipovic as a loser has been arrested as a minister, so Mr. Djogaš will just come this week, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117653	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117654	Thank you, well-respected President HS, for asking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the GLAS Club and the Centre. In life from shine to despair, sometimes it takes you a second to get somewhere you have to work very hard, but to fall it takes you very little. Let's remember the subject of the crown and then in these areas and in the public space there was a man who everyone called Super Villa and this Super Willy was shown as Superman and who solves everything, and then we really quickly saw with our own eyes that it was just like in a comic book or in a child's fairy tale a imaginary character who doesn't really exist, and that reality when it comes to health is significantly different. And as things were going on and through this appeal for impeachment, a bunch of things are said why this minister should go and, as in that joke, you know when a husband asks a woman, you believe more with your own eyes or with my words. You expect us to believe your words, not to believe our eyes and not to trust our common sense and not to see what's going on and not to see what the problems are. I'll remind you of that brave woman who came out and showed us how far our health came or how low she fell. I'll remind you just of this last case and the organ transplant on the Rebr, instead of everyone covering their ears and apologizing and saying no explanation from which little child would see that things don't stand that way. The key question today is the question of the day why Minister Maric is leaving, he was one of those who made it clear what he thought of Minister Beros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117655	The apartment is approved. Now it's my friend Bice's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117656	On behalf of the Fokus Club and independent MPs, we're looking for a 10-minute break, the Honorable President of the Assembly, the Prime Minister and of course the Minister. ... It's simple, we want to see if the HDZ Club, it's right, Mr. Rainer, the less we're looking for ministers' recall, the faster they go, so maybe tactics should just be the opposite, but since we now have a agenda point, then I'd say that the four reasons we need to question are whether or not we're going to trust the current minister. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, it is a pandemic issue, the prime minister said before the pandemic began that the minister was there to fight the crown of the virus. We know that in the 5 waves that were in turn in Croatia de facto 16 thousand people died of the crown, the 8th we are in a world of mortality and now the question is who is to blame, whether citizenship, whether health care or pandemic management. We also have before us the adoption of a new health reform, it is only in hints, we have no exact figures, but quite certainly what we know that health associations are now against this reform, those who should be working in the new health status of the Republic of Croatia, and the prime minister said a year and a half ago as far as I'm concerned, if they come ready from Mr. Beros will be at the government meeting next week, that next week obviously hasn't come yet. When we talk about health debts they grow with half a billion kuna a year, that's the figures that are so that this pandemic I would say has affected them, but also the management of the system or the avoidance of this reform and in the end I'll just mention one fact that when we talk about funding then we need to look up to European funds and us approved funds, 1.9 million kunas are withdrawn from billions of kunas and that's what we have to... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117657	Thank you very much, dear colleague Bice. The apartment is approved. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117658	Thank you. So I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the RF for 10 minutes to warn those who live in the knight's age of my colleague Reiner that it may have been normal at that time to take out the guilty ovaries, that the poor are being taken out of the kidneys to give them to the rich, that the pregnant women who want to carry out the legal abortion refuse to do so, but in the 21st century, that's really not the case. We are here for the third time because health care is one of the fundamental human rights and because people in Croatia today feel literally on their skin the rule of HDZ, from the privatisation of health care to the commercialization of health, you took people's right to health care, that's the bottom of the bottom. If for no other reason we should seek the Minister's impeachment for what he writes in this response about the recall where the health system in the Republic of Croatia says public and private makes a whole that is of exceptional importance to the population of the Republic of Croatia. My colleagues and colleagues, this is the answer to the fact that a billion kuna is given to a private company, Medikol, instead of buying a device that is diagnosed for cancer patients with serious illness. So it is totally unacceptable for you to fully understand, so from these answers it is quite clear that you realize that it is perfectly correct to outsort Croatian health care, commercialize health services, and ultimately send a message to people that those who have will be treated, those who do not have a chance to cope.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117659	The apartment is approved. Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117660	President-in-Office of the HS, the Honorable Prime Minister of Croatia, the Honorable Minister. The Croatian health system is a difficult patient. As we speak here at this moment, Croatian health is creating millions of losses. Every day these losses amount to several million kunas, each month is measured in several tens and hundreds of millions of kunas, and that's how the year goes. Huge debts to large-scale drugs, huge debts to energy suppliers and always the question of when the hospital will run out of heat, no water, no garbage. Unfortunately, health reform simply doesn't exist. The fact is that we are still at the time of the covid pandemic, but it is also a fact that health has thousands of other problems that you esteemed ministers have failed to solve. This way, I must address my colleague, Reiner, who finds our opposition initiatives ridiculous, excruciating, etc. but the task of the opposition is to criticise, the task of the opposition is to make proposals. Whatever amendment opposition is given in order, almost everyone refuses, so it would be best if the opposition were withdrawn from the assembly and returned to the period of unanimity, and it was your party in the 1990s who fought that one-minded party, so don't bring us back to those dark times.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117661	We have another request for a break from counterpart Raspadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117662	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, I request a 10-minute break to further discuss the context in which this debate will take place and the request for the replacement of Minister Beros. I was quite surprised when I entered this assembly because we were on a very important point about the Law on Cultural Councils and funding programs in culture, on this side I saw only a few representatives. So I was wondering what happened in the meantime, did I fall asleep and wake up on Friday for a vote, why are you all here today? And then I felt moved because I realized that you needed to show uniqueness, that you're all here, that you're tough today because what's going on is happening. I have to admit that this is a completely different situation for us now, and that's why we need a break to discuss how to proceed. Our MPs are, I'm grateful if I've made it possible for you to relax a little bit and smile, it's always good to do good. Namely, our clubmates have prepared a very pedantic exhibition in which we will hear why Minister Beros should leave. It was enough to repeat seven taxful sins of Minister Beros that we talked about more than a year ago with some others who have accumulated, all that happened around the crown of the crisis, the purchase of millions of doses of vaccines that are now failing or will be paid for care, but I don't know how much it makes sense today to talk about Minister Beros when I see you all gathered together, so it burns under your feet. Why do you prove to us that you are so unique? That's why you're telling me that you're going to Krakow if you're really going to Krakow, here's what I'm asking you to do to give us a break of 10 minutes to even consider this situation and this need to demonstrate unity and whether it makes sense to discuss Minister Berosch or if we agree nicely on the date of the election and to return to trust the citizens after all you've done.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117663	We're going to the ninth request, colleague Bartulica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117664	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club. Dear Minister, I will remind you of the session I would already say the famous session of the Health Committee, which was attended by the minister at the departure of Maric, who said that every free kuna he manages to save inflows to health care. You're asking me about the reforms that are lagging behind, which we've actually been waiting for for years you've admitted that the health system hasn't been reformed for the last 20 years and we're paying a high price for it, high price. You must be aware of that. Many of our best doctors are leaving because this system is not motivated. There are many reasons why you have not earned confidence, surely the biggest is not the availability of abortions in hospitals, but it could be said that you have not protected enough doctors who are calling for a conscience and are now exposed to terrible pressures. However, the way the future system is imagined and how you look at reform is missing a lot of things. I'll remind you, we can't bring expenses, we can't rationalise expenditure without introducing market mechanisms into the system, that's impossible. So we're going round and round. It is not by chance that it generates a system of debts every month because so far there is no principle, any mechanism that could prevent it. I will once again warn that the purchase of vaccines on behalf of all of us at EU level is very non-transparent, we do not know at what prices, at what conditions and ultimately we will have large excess vaccines that no one needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117665	The apartment is approved. And here's our 10th request, Comrade Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117666	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the 10-minute IDS club not because I'm confused as Mr. Raspoudic, I understand why most of us came in this number today and I'm not going to repeat some of the topics that my opposition colleagues have said. In fact, two things are bothering us, one more after a colleague, and it's about discrimination against the citizens of Vijština, or Northwest Istria, as we now call it, and Isolli Hospital, but I don't want that much about it. The second is what concerns me a little bit, as a representative of one decentralisation policy is the announcement of the centralisation of the health system and I do not know the other part of Croatia, the health care in the other part of Croatia cannot speak, what I fear is for Istria that something wrong with the General Hospital in Pula after it finally came to life and with the help of this government, should be fair in the right way, correct, but not to go those announcements in some wrong direction, especially because we have a medium-term goal of becoming actually with the Faculty of Medicine in Pula, one day and a clinical hospital center, a clinical hospital center. Please take a break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117667	Okay. Is there another request? If he doesn't, we'll continue at 3:00 and 55 minutes. [[It's 3:38 p.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.57 HOURS]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work, and I would now like to invite my esteemed colleague, Ivan Kekin, to provide an introduction to the proposal to launch a trust issue with Minister Beros, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117669	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Minister Beroš, in an awkward situation to defend himself against an expert but also a party colleague who pressured him with his dissatisfaction and the future agreed outcome of the competition for the post of Director of the KBC Sister of Mercy, said the already famous sentence "the party has chosen the way". It is not, of course, what you will see today from many exhibitions was the most unpleasant situation in the ministerial career of Dr. Berosha, but it was also not the only situation in which decisions were made in a more defined way, although precisely because we are in a country that is almost 30 years old. "the party chooses a path" we have neglected, abandoned, dysfunctional and corrupt health system that does not provide health care to its citizens, especially citizens. Perhaps it would be time for someone to finally take responsibility for what and how the party chooses and how much this country's citizens cost especially in this portfolio where the price is paid not only in euro but in color and in human lives. Let's start from the moment the party chose Willy Berosh and appointed him Minister of Health of the Republic of Croatia. This happened, of course, not because Prime Minister Plenkovic saw that the past minister did not achieve his goals, which he did after all, or because he saw a visionary ready in Willia Beros to deal with the difficult legacy of former ministers. We've always been really lucky in health care, let's remember Hebrang, Ljubic, Milinović, etc. Not the party or Andrej as the family calls it, the HDZ doctor from the beginning of the story, they chose a new minister because the old minister was burdened with a series of real estate affairs, and the overpouring of the affair is the most common reason for choosing a new path. The newly brought-in minister Beroš was presented by the prime minister himself as a person who will stick to the job in order to make our health system more accessible and quality for patients, then as if it would be a person who will touch key topics, which is financing the entire health system that the prime minister says unfortunately generates certain losses, and also as a person who will deal with the international health crisis due to the coronary virus. This was said in January 2020, and now we can see what has been achieved. If we start from the last one, so the pandemic of the coronaryvirus shows that the "party has chosen a path" that ended with more than 16 thousand deaths, so 4 thousand deaths per million inhabitants, which puts us at 8th place, tragically 8th place. This is the result of a good part of the vaccination subsection, in Croatia only 55% of the citizens received both doses of the vaccine, which by the number of vaccinated citizens places us at the very bottom of the EU, although among the first very new finance minister to remember. It is also a summary of the results of dealing with the international health crisis due to the coronary virus. How do we stand with the quality and availability of health care to be promoted by Minister Beros? The life expectancy of the Republic of Croatia is expected to be around 3rd year. Shorter than the EU average, we are in the 20th place of the European countries' rankings. I find that a little depressing. The most common causes of death in the Republic of Croatia are cardiovascular diseases, the most significant cause and the most important risk factor is diabetes, and other major cause of mortality are malignant diseases. So if we want to extend our lives to Croatian citizens, the conclusion is that we should work on these very causes, so let's see how we do it. Malignant diseases, so the second most common cause, but the first in younger than 65 years. In Croatia, therefore, about 14,000 people are killed annually, in Europe we are in women 7 by mortality, and in men even 2. Although modern medicine is making great efforts to improve the treatment of disease prognosis in the case of extended cancer is still mostly very bad. So when we talk about improving healing or extending life, it would be crucial to discover early cancer. This is done by means of preventive programs aimed at submitting that population at risk to some simple diagnostic method to detect an individual tumor early. Therefore, the preventive screening programmes in all developed societies are among the most important tasks of the public health system because their primary goal is to extend the lives of citizens. How are we doing with preventive programs? We're spending three after colon cancer to prevent breast cancer and prevent uterine cancer. We talked about cancer prevention and screening programs for so-called colon cancer in the assembly recently, and we presented worrying data on the miserable response of our population to a review that tests the existence of blood in the chair, which is mostly the first sign of colon cancer, and if you discover it in the early stage, the survival rate is 90%, and it is a pity that in Croatia we discover only 11% of colon cancers in the early stages, in Slovenia half an hour across the border more than 50%. Maybe the key is how we do the screening. In Croatia, first you get a letter, in a letter they ask if you are interested in screening, then you go to the post office and say yes, then they send you a new letter with a test, then you do a test, then you return it by mail and then in 6 months you repeat it all and then in all these departures to the post office and back 21% of our response, in Slovenia more than 65%. Let's do a little HPV, so the uterus's carcinoma is the only cancer that can be prevented by timely vaccination against HPV. This unique opportunity for women’s fifth-fifth-of-frequency cancer to prevent young people from being vaccinated before entering the developed country’s sexual relations has well taken advantage of the population over 65%, and their uterus neck cancer is no longer a public health problem. We're not that lucky with us is the rate of child segregation in 8 classes below 10%. We can conclude that preventive programmes exist on paper but, according to mortality which is significantly higher than in the EU, it is obvious that the minister did not choose the path of evaluation, implementation and efficiency that are at low levels. So these are malignant diseases. The first cause of mortality is cardiovascular. The most significant risk factors of diabetes, the same thing we talked about in the assembly recently, in some late hours we declared the day of diabetes. It's mostly only when there's talk of health care in this assembly in the Republic of Croatia. Type II diabetes, which suffers from about 10% of the general population, is directly caused by thickness and motion. It's a huge public health problem that can be prevented. A total of 10% of all the costs of treating all diseases in Croatia wastes on the treatment of diabetes and complications of diabetes such as heart attacks and strokes, kidney failure, blindness, limb amputation, etc. Although in the treatment of type II diabetes once there was a development of the battle was in some way lost. Preventing the development of Type II diabetes should be one of the basic public health goals, only by reducing the price we pay both in health and in money. How are we doing? The national health programme for people with diabetes from 2015 to 2020 was adopted by the government in June 2015. In an analysis previously performed as system weaknesses, the unequal availability of care, the lack of education of family medicine doctors and the fact that the focus of care for diabetics is on secondary and tertiary levels, therefore in hospitals. Now that we look at the report on the implementation of that same national programme, we see that nothing has been done to eliminate these weaknesses. Instead, we continue to treat diabetics within the hospital system, which is completely unsustainable, leads to a significant increase in the cost of treatment and is less effective. We won't talk about inequality because not every diabetic near the hospital lives. From the above examples, and finally and from the experience of developed countries, it is clear that there is no effective prevention or treatment of the epidemiologically most significant diseases without solid and strong primary health care. So well-educated, well equipped family doctor represents the most efficient and cheapest solution to cope with the challenges of the health system. So countries that care for their citizens and their health have long ago realized that the key to empowering doctors is primary health care, but here we are following systematic dissuasion and destruction, literally by destroying the primary health care system. So let's start with a third of all 2300 teams with us having more than 1800 patients in their care. Let's start with that there is no specialization in more than half of the doctors working in primary healthcare in Croatia. It's a standard in developed countries. You can't be a doctor of family medicine without specialization, but you are with us. You know why? Because they are not educated, but we are withdrawing students who have recently completed their studies and we are putting them to play a little family medicine while waiting for the spectacle. So, those people who should be the most educated, most motivated, highly gratified we give this job to students, so when you come to a doctor of a bunch of our citizens every time someone else comes along instead of a doctor who should know him best, so both health and psychologically and socially and businessly, etc. Thus, such a system, apart from leading to significantly worse and significantly more expensive treatment outcomes, leads to a stifling of the hospital system that becomes completely inaccessible to those who really need it. So, if you have a doctor of family medicine who has no experience and who has no education all your studies show you this doctor will send you his patients for unnecessary tests, will give you unnecessary treatments, will send him to subspecial and specialist examinations. The problem isn't new, Minister Berosch just kept it going. You look back at statistics for 10 years and 40% have increased the number of hospital doctors, but the primary health care is nothing. They don't discuss specializations, and even when they do, you've reduced their status so low that no one wants to contact because primary health care doctors here every doctor in this room knows that they receive significantly less money than hospital doctors, they can't advance and you've brought them down to administrators, literally to administrators. When I got into college that was in 2002, the dean was Professor Labar, it was the best dean she'd ever had, and they told us on the first class of the first year exactly remember family doctors were gays, they were protectors, they're filters, they're guarding a hospital system, without them if you don't like it, everything will fall apart. That's what they told us. But the party chose the way, and you turned the geydkipers into the most common guides. And not only have you turned them into detours but you move on, here's what you've brought, or should we still vote them for the amendments and additions of the Road Safety Act, where other than being guides and administrators, family medicine doctors, there should be cops, they should do their driving for their patients with one mouse move, etc. So you're making it even more difficult for them to do the hard work they're doing anyway. In addition, we hear that the new reform suggests that we should fill holes in united emergency hospital receptions, which, of course, refuse for reasons that they no longer want to appear at work meetings with a resolution minister. And we've also heard that many of them are making fires. So what do we do? However, there is no sign of strategic thinking, strengthening, investment, revitalisation of how this will happen with primary health care. But good. So, after we fail because of all this that we've listed poorly implemented preventive programs, ruined primary health care to prevent diseases from being treated. So, let's say sugar disease, maybe we don't have prevention, maybe we push everything into hospitals, but yet our colleagues from countries like England and Denmark wonder when they see our list of HZZO-funded medicines. Namely, Croatia is at the very bottom of the European countries by using the so-called human biosimilar, meaning generic insulins that are no less effective, but are more expensive than the insulin analogues that dominate us. Or, for example, the price of medicines from the SGLT2 inhibitor group that have recently been on the market is HZZO, 30% higher price for our patients than in the Czech Republic or Slovenia. So, countries that care about the health of their citizens work on primary health care prevention, and we put out the fire in the most expensive way, the weak diabetic subspecies, give him a bunch of unnecessary tests, and get him over with overpriced insulin. Well, it's no wonder we're unsustainable. Let's see the treatment of cancer. According to the National Cancer Plan, a strategic document developed by experts, oncological surgery is often conducted by surgeons who are not closely specialised in the treatment of tumours. And that's directly related to the worse outcomes of treatment. So we can conclude that when it comes to the measures required by organisation and structure, I think that should be done by the minister, so such as control, implementation of preventive programmes, defining the conditions for the implementation of oncological treatment, system failures have been recorded and continued for years and we pay them both in health and in money. So if you look at how we treat cancer patients, mostly pharmacologically, and how much do we pay? That's the question that Minister Maric asked, former Minister Maric, who's sorry, who said, so how the hell are we growing the price of drugs and even the time of lockdown? What's the catch? So maybe if we look at 2014 to 2020, the cost of treating malignant medicines has increased 3 times. The cure didn't grow three times, that's where we agree. Perhaps you should look at the report of the Croatian Medical Assembly that tells us how much money has been received by the professional company from the farm industry in 2020. The first three societies on that list, so those who got the most money from a farm, to be quite clear, are oncological society, an interstitious oncology society and a diabetes society. So those who, therefore, are dealing all these expensive drugs. And that's just the part of the money that goes through the Croatian Medical Assembly, have the part that goes past HLZ. It is also interesting that until 5 years ago HZO insisted on the conclusion of so-called "HZO". an ethical contract that would oblige all farm companies registered in Croatia to report on how much individual doctors receive money and for what education. But then in 2017, Mr. Lucijan Vukelić came to the post of HZZO chief and then the ethical contract was no longer needed, so that, specifically now, HZZO does not have a slight relationship on the potential conflicts of the interests of its doctors at positions of power, mostly those of HDZ, it is clear. From that perspective, it is clear why no one is interested in prevention or primary health care. Well, there's no money. I mean, you could say that prevention reduces drug consumption, which is awkward according to these reports. Finally, she would refer to the announcements of the new Health Protection Act, which, unfortunately, does not offer much reformer. In fact, in the advisory group, Minister Beros put exactly those people who have been ruling Croatian health for the past 20 years, who have led him to this point and who should now reform it newly. The sweet detail lies that the minister advises the mahogany of men, and in his medical system over 80% of women, 3 out of 20 are your wives in the advisory group. The key change in the announced reform lies in the withdrawal of institutions to local self-government and putting part of the institutions under the auspices of the state, which from everything I have listed did not show that it has the capacity to run sound, efficient health policies. The debts of state hospitals are no less than debts generated by hospitals owned by local self-government. And of course it is because the whole system is set up in a way that necessarily generates debts because the party has chosen the path of abandoning and destroying primary health care, so the one that should carry the prevention, the one that should keep the hospital system from frequent subspecies and specialist examinations, from expensive and often unnecessary searches and from prescribing and prescribing expensive and no more effective medicines. So the party chose an expensive and unsustainable path. The way to worry about positions of power, the way to worry about staffing, the way to worry about the profits of individuals, the way to worry about the profits of the farm company. And who's paying for that trip? Our citizens. I repeat in the money and in the lives we have heard, somewhat shorter than in the rest of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117670	Let's go now with the replicas. First of all, it's my colleague Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117671	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Government, Your Honor... Honorable MPs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Health is the most valuable by definition of WHO, which is health, we well know that it is not the absence of disease but social, psychological, physical well-being. Health is invaluable, and the treatment of the disease is expensive. When you talk about health care as a constitutional category, about the availability of health care, whether you've thought about the taste of the problem, and the problem is not Minister Beros. You know that well. You mention the indirect waiting lists. You know that for the treatment of these severe diseases there are priority lists, it's not all as black as you're saying. You mention the pandemic, among other things, Minister Beros led and ran the system at the time of the pandemic and health problems in the system of larger countries and richer are huge Also, you've been informed. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117672	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117673	Thank you. Thank you for your comment. I'm not sure what the question is. This, yes, I think I certainly believe that the minister at the head of the resistor is responsible for the essential health problems I have listed. I agree that these essential problems have been generated by this party for 30 years, so not only Minister Beros chose that path, but he continued to boldly set foot in that way, and his task was to reform this system. So I'll tell you one more time. Minister Maric, today, re-spinning television, asked all these same questions when funding comes in, so how is it possible that we are not improving our survival while three times more paying for medicines, as it is possible that we are the only ones in Europe to pay for so many expensive insulin analogues, as is possible, who makes those decisions, and at the same time look at who gets money from these same pharma companies that put these medicines on HZZO lists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117674	Here you go, Comrade Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117675	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues Kekin, I think that both you and I and my colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives are very well aware of the failure of this action, which will eventually result in a vote, but I believe that we are also aware of another one of your failures, which is much worse for the citizens and citizens of the City of Zagreb, in particular the City Office for Social Protection, Health, Defence and Persons with Disabilities for more than a year, has no head over the years, more than a year of power cannot find from all its quality policies, people and ideas a person who would deal with this and unfortunately the danger of such policy and damage to all citizens is already giving its results, it is visible and yesterday by decision of a high administrative court regarding the measure of parenting.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117676	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117677	Well, thank you, Comrade Mazhar, or I've been waiting for someone first to say congratulations to my colleague Kirina who's resisted. So, I have decided today to count your replicas concerning Zagreb, not health care, just because that number is bigger shows greater weakness and impotence of your arguments, and if we're going to comment on the verdicts, I think a more important verdict has come today that we should comment on. In fact, yesterday's ruling by the High Administrative Court said that the authority you held the ladder gave priority to a number of citizens we can change, and today's verdict said that because your party and its president took the privilege of Croatian citizens must pay two billion kunas from their own pockets. We'd rather comment on that verdict a little bit, something fresher than yesterday... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117678	My fellow Mažar, please choose the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117679	A colleague of Kekin's hurt her ankle. 238. The Rules of Procedure of HS, except that it has failed to answer the specific question of the MPs who were concerned that for the third time you would have failed to try to change the Minister of Health without success, also without success for a year, you do not have a headmaster for the office in the City of Zagreb who should take care of the health care that you are saying, so you cannot do the basis of the thing for a year, and you cannot even give an answer to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117680	Comrade Mazhar, this was a replica, so you're getting a warning. Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117681	Thank you very much. Agent Kekin, you didn't say anything about this proposal, but I caught the part where you say the party chooses the way, the responsibility, and how much it costs the citizens. You set this as a criterion for replacing the Minister of Health at your request. Now I'm asking you if you're ready to apply that criterion to the mayor of Zagreb, here's to Cleanliness, for example, the purity of that same criterion, so you said you'd restructure Holding, cancel anything, then in a public tender you chose a man from Osijek by accident with an SDP card with fees various that a man can do his job to determine that he's not able to empty the bucket, means a simple operation, you see a bucket, in a truck, empty on Jakushevac, doesn't go, so unfortunately the City of Zagreb is more like a city that has more garbage than ever been and now I'm asking you, is it worth the criterion for Mr. Tomasevic, or do you have some kind of kat as you say it shouldn't be worth it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117682	Before we answer, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117683	Thank you, Mr. President. He's been injured. In 238, in a way that the representative spoke about a subject that was not the subject of debate. I don't want to go into content, I don't want to go into content, but I want to go to you. I apologize, Mr. President, I would like to ask you a question, will you continue to lead the session this way, because in this we risk talking about all topics, not just what is proposed on the agenda today. [[/Intruder: Let's turn around.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117684	Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, please sit down. Let's go, let's go through matter, so these are replicas, colleagues are calling for analogy, so if you have certain principles at national level, then you probably have them at local level, especially if you're in power. Since it doesn't matter and how it would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so it's an elemental logic, you know it very well, so you've gotten a little bit caught up in helping your coalition partners in the City of Zagreb because it's probably this gentleman who has the SDP card, so now this one, and then you're calling it no harm to the Rules of Procedure, of course it's not, you get a warning. Comrade Marko Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117685	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague of the coat of arms has been injured by an officer. In 238, when such interventions must save their coalition junior partner, they obviously put the wrong person to open that didn't even bring out all the things that we're going to answer on this side very easily and drop all the charges...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117686	Comrade Kekin, be still, calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117687	...when you've reacted tactically already, then don't help your coalition partner like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117688	Comrade Pavić, you are being warned, this was also a replica, and I call on colleagues and colleagues not to use the breach of the Rules of Procedure as a replica, please, this is a rule that should be followed. Col. Boric's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117689	Art. In 238, a colleague named Grbin said that I had not held up the debate, I specifically cited what my colleague Kekin said, the party is choosing the way, the responsibility and how much it costs the citizens. If Mr. Grbin applied that criterion to himself, he would have already resigned two months ago on that famous fee.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117690	Also, the breach of the Rules of Procedure because this was a replica, you get a warning of course. Let's move on, now it's time for fellow Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117691	And I should answer Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117692	You're right, I'm sorry, here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117693	There will be an opportunity for you to mention Zagreb's counterpart, Habian. So, my colleague, Boric, has two replicas on the subject of Zagreb, as I said, I am adding them together. I would have mentioned, that later occurred to me to my colleagues before you that you chose as long as the head of SAFU, the third time you failed, the first one ended up in prison, but I mean clearly, and I didn't say at any point that the party chose the path of responsibility. You've heard it really wrong or you haven't listened. If you were at least, I think I can give you the text, so at least the party chose the path of responsibility that would be good. Otherwise, our party has indeed chosen the path of responsibility. So, you might see in this period how much it is that our Minister Beroš is dealing with the situation and that he's in the process, but we're glad you're following it. We're glad you're following.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117694	Comrade Habib, please, it's you now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117695	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, Kekin, I think that every submission, every proposal requesting the vote of no confidence of a minister should be based on facts. What is even more important, these facts should be supported by evidence. You've been here for 20 minutes and you've had an escort lecture where you've analyzed the health system, but nothing concrete, nothing constructive we've heard, absolutely nothing in these 20 minutes. And what you mentioned is that the mention of the City of Zagreb that you manage shows our weakness does not show, shows your weakness and your impotence in lack of arguments to point to any and all other fact that holds water that would justify the minister's shift. It would be better if you had spent that time, as has already been said several times, to find the heads of the City of Zagreb, not to frame yourself in the halls of holding and to devote yourself to management and then to prove that you know there, and not to document here what the health system should look like in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117696	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117697	What you would say in my profession, it verbalizes a lot and without content. So, I'll just say when we're talking about concrete. So, 20 in Europe by how long we've lived, 8 in the world by how many people have died of the coronary virus, 3 at the bottom of the EU by segregation, only 21% of people who respond to screening, below 10% of those who have been vaccinated against HPV, the worst survival of malignancies in the EU, I guess three times the price of drugs for these same malignancies six years ago. In doing so, the most money is obtained by doctors who, these are all from, I have given you references, I am a scientist to you, so I write to you exactly what I am, from where I am from, these are summer records, registers, national plans, reports of national plans, reports of HZZO, prices listed in HZZO, so you haven't really talked about everything since I've been in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117698	My fellow coat of arms, here you go. Again, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, let's not constantly injure the Rules of Procedure, there's a debate going on, because I mean, here's your colleague, Habib, but I'm calling you all, there are replicas and you change your mind, and we leave it to the Rules of Procedure for a second chance. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117699	Thank you, Mr. President. Let's talk about what really is the subject of today's debate and why we are gathered here in this issue, which is the Croatian health system and the person who is at the head of it. You were talking about certain data showing the health of the health system, and I'm going to read you one, which is the mortality of diseases that could have been avoided. At EU level, the average is 110 per 100,000, in Croatia over 140 per 100,000, plastic. In Croatia annually, more than 1,000 people die from diseases that could have been avoided, more than the European average, 1,000 people who should not have died, who we could have helped because the gentleman sitting there next to Andrej Plenkovic is not doing his job. We should keep quiet about it, too, or we should point to that. Tell me what you think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117700	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117701	Thank you for, for that comment, so your data is also very specific. It's in favor of everything we've mentioned here. So, specifically if you have poor primary health care, then you bury the hospital system, then if the people who should get to the doctor can't get to it, if you don't work to prevent disease or detect it in time, then unfortunately, your citizens will die of diseases that could have been prevented. They're going to die of malignant diseases, cardiovascular diseases because they're going to develop diabetes because we don't have preventive programs because we don't do them, so they're going to develop a colon cancer that we're going to discover in stage three or four because they didn't go to the post office six times to do the screening, and nobody's doing anything to fix it. And I think that this system is so detached that it really couldn't have been fixed in 2.5 years, but the problem is that in 2.5 years it hasn't even started that way. This is the problem, so not all doctors of family medicine could be educated, but it could be headed in that direction, and it did not move.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117702	Thank you. Comrade Deur, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117703	Thank you, Your Honor. I can see that you are counting but you must understand that what you are doing as an organization We can pay a little more attention in the City of Zagreb to my Councils, how many families you wanted to leave with the parent measure on social grounds, how many children you didn't get into kindergarten in Sesvets, water supply, how much garbage you put on the fourth largest in the City of Zagreb, not the waste of garbage, how you treat the City of Zagreb, do you advise your group of mayors, believe what you are doing, and now you would like the Prime Minister, to present something you don't yourself, so it's certainly hard to be in charge of the City of Zagreb and run the country is very difficult to manage. with such activists who understand nothing but [[Intruder: Thank you.]] toss the asphalt and insult [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Deur.]] Citizens of the City of Zagreb. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117704	Comrade Deur, please, eight seconds you've been through this, don't do this. Injury of my colleague Bauk's Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117705	Mr. President, I suggest we stop the debate and move to the City Hall to continue the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117706	Comrade Bauk, if I hadn't witnessed your many performances from you from the SDP through all other parties and smaller parties from the opposition who continuously use this pay phone to talk about local issues, every time. Now, when the debate opens and you don't feel comfortable talking about local issues, then you'd be interrupting the debate, limiting the right to speak for those who are representatives of the majority here, that's not how it works. You get a warning, nothing else. Have a seat!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117707	I can, I can do one more.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117708	And you'll get another one. You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117709	.../Intruder Bauk: Mr. President, I have just affirmed that local topics are being discussed and I have suggested that we go to the local parliament and talk about the local topic. So, exactly what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117710	Comrade Bauk, you suggest that when your people are talking about local issues, then they'd be credible, and not now that your political rivals are using those arguments, then it's bothering you now. I'll call you next time one of your guys says locally to send him to Bratch. Sure, but I need to give you another warning right now. Let's move on. I'm a colleague of Deur's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117711	Thank you, Your Honor. The 239th insult of Parliamentarians has been injured. Well, I'd like to say that the representative of Peja Grbin, including Arsen Bauk. I believed that Mr. Pedja had already applied to the DORH because what he did, this kind of immoral attitude, and what he was doing in the opposition and in the situation he was in, it's terrifying. And believe that we will always vote to remain president of the SDP because we believe that it will forever be where it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117712	Comrade Deur, this is a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're getting a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117713	So, horrified colleague Deur is...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117714	Wait a minute, I didn't give you my word because my colleague Bulj is still reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117715	Thank you very much. The President-in-Office, you violated Article 238 because you demeaned the representative. This wasn't an injury to the Rules of Procedure, this was Mr. Deur's love to Mr. Grbino.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117716	I don't know what kind of love? I don't know how you recognized that love. Okay. [[Intruding Bull: That always with love and longing will support him.]] Comrade Bull, this is a warning to you too. You've got two. So just to say you know, here's what's in front of me, my colleague Ban-Vlahek has two, Raukar-Gamulin two, Shimičević two, Bulj two, Bauk two. Just so you know, the third one is out of your right to speak. Now my colleague Kekin will answer, right on the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117717	So, I'd like to say that we support every form of love, and then respond to the appalled Mr. Deura. So he's the fifth if I count well which Zagreb mentions in the defence argument of Minister Beroša, and he also mentions how you said that you wanted to take away what, social rights to children in Sesvedi. I would remind you that you were also part of this ruling majority who voted against the proposals of your fellow sovereigns club that this beautiful measure the High Administrative Court declared to be a privilege yesterday, a privilege given by the former government, so you. So, not with the right but with the privilege of introducing it at the level of the entire state. I don't know how you have a heart just for the world's children, not for the whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117718	Okay. Let's move on. Don't throw it away! Comrade Cellic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117719	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, we need to talk about Zagreb. We are parliamentary representatives from Zagreb. The town of Zagreb has 19 health institutions owned by the city of Zagreb. They say that you are politically responsible for the health resort in the city of Zagreb and that you are humanizing. I'd say it's politically blinded that in the time of the global pandemic of covid, you end the city's Health Office and attach it to a megalomantic office that still doesn't have a headmaster, or headmaster. This is where I'm going to mention the question of the children's hospital "Silvebrnjak". You also failed in more than a year to select the director, i.e. the director of the health institution. More than 432 million kunas provided by the state from EU funds have simply led you to the fact that the contractor has withdrawn because the city administration was unable to do what was expected of it, so I ask you whether you are going through Podemos in Madrid and Pablo Iglesias or you may be looking for In this health reform, health care institutions will move on to state property. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117720	Thank you, fellow Cellic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117721	So the sixth. So, first of all, I don't know who whispered to you that I'm taking shots around the city of Zagreb. I don't really do that. For us, the administrative councils choose, not a party path, but an "exheli" administrative council of hospitals. Can you extend my time? I'd like you to give me back some time. Thank you. So I know it's funny to you because it's unimaginable to you, but it really is. So, as far as the Silver Man is concerned, you're not ashamed. For two years, you've held a ladder to those who've prevented the project from going away at all. When we came here, we had to ask for an extension, because two years didn't do anything. And now, after the performer canceled, I ask you, here's the prime minister. So, is there one project for which the contract was signed before 2022 that did not increase the cost of implementation by 50 to 100%? And the problem is with you. So, yours should, your Regional Development Minister should have agreed with the European Commission on how to finance the deficits. Well, you failed to rebuild the Parliament for that case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117722	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Col. Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117723	Article 238 has been injured. You guys talk to a shrink, you know. Don't insult me! In less than a year less than three percent of the performance, the man who performed the work said so. You're telling me you're ashamed. You've been sitting around for over a year, running the city. You may be ashamed that the contractor left the Srebrenica. Leave the late Bandic, take responsibility and do your job. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117724	Comrade Cell, you are being warned. It was a replica. I'll have my colleague Buric replicate it now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117725	Thank you, Your Honor, Your Honor, the Prime Minister, the Honorable Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mrs. Kekin. I'm really not impressed by this crowd of yours. I don't really know why you keep asking questions of trust. This is probably because you have nothing better to do, so instead of building kindergartens around Zagreb, instead of being sensitive and constructive towards parents of educators, their children, all parents and their children. Instead of being tolerated and inclusive to everyone, not really to some. Here's what you're all about: Ideology, poor staffing of failed personnel that even got rid of Mr. Obersnel, and here's my suggestion to you, get a megaphone to go to the City Hall and ask for a question of trust. Mr. Tomasevic. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117726	Thank you very much. Please, just fellow Buric, what a bunch of chatter is a little too strong an expression, so don't do it. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117727	I think this was an impressive expression, but still something to say with a lack of content, no. If we're going to talk, then it was now the eighth replica concerning Zagreb, so that's the first one. As far as parenting and caring for their children are concerned, therefore, because of your privilege to a small group very privileged in that case, Zagreb children do not all have the right to kindergarten today. On your question, that we are already building kindergartens, if you follow the presses on Tuesdays then you could also see it and accordingly, so precisely because we are in power and we think of all the children we will make sure that all the Zagreb children have the right to kindergartens that they did not have with your authority because in 5 years you invested 15 times more money in a small group of 5,000 people without thinking about all the Zagreb children.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117728	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Col. Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117729	I appeal to Article 238, Mrs Kekin said that her party chose the path of responsibility and I am interested in what responsibility it is since after more than a year in the Croatian metropolis you did not build a single kindergarten. It's devastating and it's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117730	My colleague Buric, this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this is a replica so you get a warning. And I'm asking you not to laugh so loudly because this one has the right to say especially if it's a matter of fact. Let's move on, colleague Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117731	My colleagues and colleagues, we are discussing a wrong member of the government, instead of Beros, we should discuss the prime minister. I watched your press on Minister Maric, when I saw you smile at the moment when your best, most successful minister, was worried about your health, and then I read the comment of a journalist who found that he was leaving a minister who was more prominent than the prime minister who even showed his own political ambition when he showed that he was ready to take over the government at the time of the destruction of Tihomir Oreskovic. The journalist says it left Plenkovic without political competition in the Banski Dvori, surrounded by listeners, political gnomes and ministers from the third echelon. Such third echelon ministers include Minister Beros. It is said that you have remained in the cold drive until the end of the term of office, and in the cold drive we will obviously remain in health care because without serious reform we will not be able to cover our debts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117732	Thank you, colleague Oreshkovic. I don't know if you know the rules, you're replicating your colleague Kekin right now, the prime minister can't parley with you, so here's my colleague, Kekin, please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117733	My colleague Kekin will know to answer the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117734	Here, have a seat, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117735	Well, I guess I'll tell you, colleague Oreshkovic was a lot closer to the subject and this impeachment by Minister Beros than any of your MPs on this side of the assembly have ever been. In any case, colleague Oreskovic, thank you for your observation. The only thing I would disagree with is that health care will be in the cold. I'm afraid there's no room for cold drive anymore. So, I'm afraid we came to the point that as we know last year, just when Minister Maric commented that he was loading and saving the supply of drugs in a way that deepens the deficit. And so how much further the deficit can be deepened in a situation of this global crisis, inflation and recession, we'll see about that. But I'm afraid it's not the cold drive that's following us, but it's literally one ghastly deodoration of the already ruined health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117736	Comrade Simičević, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117737	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, here I am not going to talk about Zagreb, but I have to say if there are two children from one family and one child was received, and the other was not in any way able to get to you in a nice way, so here I am using the Assembly speaker to say it. And the second I'll only limit myself to Covid, you didn't mention here in a single word the people who spoke of Covid as a cavities and that it was a common common cold, not a disease that took 16,000 lives. You didn't say at any point that we first got hospital staff equipment, you didn't say that we got enough vaccines for those who wanted to, and you accused the minister that he was guilty of not being vaccinated. It's those anti-vaxers who spoke against, who are sitting here in the assembly. Or on the hill by the side, next to us. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Please, nice. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117738	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117739	She would ask her colleague Raukar Gamulin to help me count because it is already too difficult for me to follow this for the tenth time to mention Zagreb, so even though you did not mention it, she did. I'll tell you what, I'll keep your kids in kindergarten so it might have worked out during your power in Zagreb. The reason they couldn't sign up because I repeat, you haven't invested in a single bit in the last five years. We're building and making up for it now, but we can't make it as fast as you left it. As for the people who say Covid is irrelevant and that, think of those who sat on the government council until the moment the prime minister was compared to Tito. Do you think of these people? Because these people, for example, who sat in scientific advice and occasionally came forward just those who confused our people, because as a man, he sits in scientific advice and speaks against vaccines on Facebook, etc. And it asked the prime minister a million times and Minister Beros why these people are sitting in scientific advice. It came out the moment the prime minister was compared to Tito, there.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117740	Let's move on. Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117741	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Assembly, respected Prime Minister and Minister Kekin, where exactly are you to open that your colleague, Peja Grbin, should defend you, when we return to the scale and Minister Berosa, see how well the system is run by Minister Beros. Of course, then you're asking how well you run the system, so the nemeta asks how well you run the system, so you can't even name a resorient head, you failed during your year's translation medicine project Srebrnjak. If I remember the President of the Board of Directors appointed the best man as his principal, but there he was not long heard, you do not know how to write a decision about parents of educators, etc. Of course we're asking that question. When we look at Minister Berosch from the EU funds' point of view. The man fought for two and a half billion kunas in the National Recovery Programme. 70% of the population was vaccinated. The prime minister fought for 25 billion euros in the first dose. The prime minister fought for 25 billion euros and 700,000 jobs were saved without having curfews. It's a success.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117742	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117743	So I'll do it again. I don't need to be defended by my colleague Pavic. It's kind of strange for me that you're the kind of patriarchal forms that you're propagating here that someone needs to defend someone. And secondly, I don't know what data you're reading or simply lying it wouldn't be weird either, and then everyone else is being questioned isn't 70 percent of Croatian citizens or the first dose. So 57% of the first dose, 55 times two doses. I was looking at the data yesterday, so please don't do that. You're the eleventh to mention Zagreb, and on the other hand you're criticizing someone who used state cards to buy nice rains at airports I don't think I'm taking it to heart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117744	You'd better buy it for Tesla than perfume.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117745	.../Intruder Kekin: On the state card./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117746	Well, no, by adding to the pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117747	.../Intruder Kekin: You distinguish public and private money or not?...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117748	Yes, it is. I see you're buying private cars by adding pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117749	.../Intruder Kekin: A colleague came in with the same car when he was employed./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117750	Okay. So you admit it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117751	.../Intruder Kekin: No!/...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117752	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117753	/Applause./ [[Intruder Kekin: So no!]] [[/Intruder Kekin: Are you allowed to do this as president of the Parliament, so this is how we do it? So the colleague is...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117754	My colleague Kekin, you're throwing all the time, polymizing...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117755	.../Intruder Kekin: I replicate by Croatian Parliament./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117756	No, no, no. You're throwing...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117757	.../Intruder Kekin: So you obviously showed that like most HDZ you do not distinguish the consumption of public and private money./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117758	My colleague Kekin...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117759	.../Intruder Kekin: You can buy Tesla with private money, and you must not buy rain./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117760	No, no. But when you buy private money from the grant you get from the state, or the city, it's not your private money. This is the money that came from the budget of the city of Zagreb or from Holding.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117761	.../Intruder Kekin: Yes./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117762	It is. Yeah, yeah, and now you're paying him the car loan war. Well, that's genius!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117763	If you can finish that dialogue of yours, we have more serious matters!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117764	Let's go, okay. Stop, let's move on. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is the first order of the colleague Pavić and the colleague of Glasovac, and the colleague of Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117765	Thank you very much. The Honorable President was vaccinated over 70% of the adult population at the first dose. Therefore, the information is correct, and my fellow minister has just confirmed it to me. And fellow Members of the City Assembly says the President of the Governing Council of the Srebrenica appoints his best man, we pay Tesla for public money, the system you can't manage, and now you're opening an attack on a successful minister and a successful government that shows they know how to run a system, and that's what the best citizens see how much you fall in the survey of numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117766	You get a second warning if I'm not wrong. That's right, yeah. We now have a colleague of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117767	Mr. President, Article 235, 236, 237, and Part 238, were injured by you, because you have, in some way, abused your role as chairman, which gives word to MPs and MPs when they will replicate or consider that the Rules of Procedure has been injured and you are giving an assessment of whether the Rules of Procedure is injured or not. And you have abused your position to engage in an argument and replicate your colleague Kekin. So I ask you to speak to yourselves, give a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117768	I'll agree with you in part. But then I ask you all if you want me to stick to the line 100 percent, and then everybody else is 100% in line, so don't throw it away. Look, you're not holding on to the line right now, and you're dreaming. So here you see, here you go, so let's hold on then, everybody. I'll really stop commenting then, but please don't throw away and don't enter into other colleagues' and colleagues' discussions during the response or replica. Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117769	Thank you. Also, as a colleague before me, I believe that Article 238 of the third indent is injured, which says that you are all a representative, and you are all the chairman of a representative, among other things, cannot interfere with the speaker. Here I am not going to ask you to stick to the law as a drunk float, but please at least not to speak as chairman to the applicant of this proposal, that is to say, that you do not interfere with colleagues of Kekin in her presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117770	No, I didn't interfere with my colleague Kekin in her presentation, but I interrupted her on her issue as a colleague of Pavic's. That's exactly what happened. But I won't bother you anymore, and then don't disturb others when you're not right to what you, what they said, would be what you would like to hear. We've got more. Comrade Shashin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117771	Your Honor, Mr. President. Article 238 has been injured. Mrs. Kekin here, this play of hers, we all know that this is an ordinary show for the public, this jumping around here for a pay phone, and for reasons you simply don't have any concrete, quality suggestions. You're just doing shows here. The first thing you did at the local level, at the level of the city of Zagreb, you abolished free holiday for the children of the Vojvodina Croats. That really doesn't work for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117772	Thanks, buddy. Comrade Shashin, this was a replica, you could have said it in the replica, not in the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. Comrade Matul, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117773	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Kekin, first of all, you were absolutely right when you said we didn't have to worry that there was no one argument that would rule in favor and we saw it. 14 replicas that go to question Zagreb, no argument in favour of Minister Beros. This is what you immediately said as well as that there is not a single association of professional doctors who can say anything good about the minister and look at the media all the inscriptions, all the headlines that speak exclusively about doctors having no confidence. And now I want to ask you, tell me which of the horrors that doctors and sisters experienced all in the two pandemics in which he led, when it was the time that after a creepy debacle he used the term "debacle" to resign and save the dignity of the profession and to come some quality minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117774	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117775	How can I tell you, it's never too late. I think that Minister Beros should follow a bright example of Minister Maric or the British government, where the health minister also resigned, still arrives today. Otherwise, I'll take this opportunity because I don't have that injury to the Rules of Procedure to say no, I didn't throw away my colleague Pavic but I answered in a replica that I have the right to do by the Rules of Procedure, and then you later after my colleague Pavić had raised an injury to the Rules of Procedure who was actually a replica decided to give him a warning and to give his opinion that you even held that it was a little bit and funny, and I have to tell you that unfortunately it wasn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117776	My colleague Kekin, perhaps at the moment you mentioned it was like that, but you were constantly when your HDZ colleagues rephrased you all the time, as soon as you didn't like what they said there, you were yelling at your colleague Raukar to count how many Zagrebs, you did it at least 5-6 times, I didn't warn you, I could have, so look at this video and you'll see. So, let's not grab the details now, I invite you all to normally continue to work properly. Now it's my colleague Bulj's turn, he certainly won't talk about Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117777	Here you would support colleague Kekin in the criticism of health care, but he would ask one question, how much damage she has done to both health care and the whole crisis inflation of the price of covid measures headed by Beros and the Prime Minister that have been harmful, we see that now the virus is between us, we have no masks, we have nothing but that we have damage both to the health and to the sick who have been waiting, you mentioned tumors and diabetes and diabetics and everything, how much damage are you really right when you supported and hardliners who have violated human fundamental rights in the area of the Republic, and thank God I am not mayor, yesterday I was in court, would like your mayor of Zagreb to behave in Vukovar, Drnish, however, how much harm have been done and how much of the current and means of inflation and the increase that you have supported you?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117778	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117779	Thank you for that question, so I'm not sorry, I mean how can I tell you, so the covid measures were introduced to save people's lives. The way we held them, the way they were introduced, how double criteria were used, how hands were kissed while others had to sit at home is the second pair of sleeves, but it's quite clear that the covid measures in the first part of the pandemic crisis, and in the second one, the fragmentation in the countries that did so saved millions of lives. Here in Lancette that very people from your club loved, although rather strangely invited, was recently a two week ago article that showed that the estimate that 20 million lives were saved by vaccination, 20 million lives. Now, fortunately, we're sitting here without a mask and no measures, because here we are already at the end of '20-21. The third year since we've had the pandemic, soybeans that are fortunately mild, most of us have been immunized by vaccination or disease, and we can all hope for a quieter period together.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117780	Comrade Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117781	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. Dear colleague Kekin, here you are counting, I am counting, this will be the 15th line related to the City of Zagreb, of course you have to get used to it because not only will we count, count you and the citizens, count you and the number of years of your failure, and why it is important, because you cheated and deceived citizens a year ago, promise them miracles because you theoretically know, I agree, a lot of things to show and convince, but here are the facts and data in these years and some days tell them otherwise. I will continue on the project of Srebrnjak, you have not already started and the contracted project could be successfully completed and completed, but we also know that the City of Zagreb cannot report on, with no project on, the planned funds from European funds, I don't know because you think you're completing additional projects or because of the government or because you don't have a strategy for the development of the City of Zagreb?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117782	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117783	So, which, 16. I'd say. So both of us and you will, of course, be Mrs. Murganic judge citizens for our successes or failures, so we can leave it to them. I'll do it again, 2. You supported the man who prevented the project from happening at all on Srebrenica. The moment we came, there were a few more months until the end of that project, he wasn't started, that's what those who were supposed to be leading him tell you. We've extended your SAFU to which you can't find the director I repeat because your old man ended up in prison has also approved as well as your Ministry of Science that extension. And the fact that the construction was cancelled, I repeat, so it was cancelled here in the assembly, so the problem is that your Ministry of Regional Development did not work out with the European Commission how we will co-finance, finance these shortcomings, so it cannot be a project that weighs half a billion deficits created by such inflation to pay from local self-government that does not have the possibility of deepening the deficits that Prime Minister Plenkovic has whenever he needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117784	Thank you very much, thank you, colleague Kekin. Now it's time for a colleague of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117785	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Kekin, every job has its own legality. One of the jobs if you're dealing with politics like we do is what the piarists tell you if you get an awkward question or if you don't have an answer to that question then switch the subject and we're watching it live. So, colleagues from HDZ are well educated, they have learned, they have received every question where the topic is being shifted, don't accidentally touch Minister Berosa's topics if we don't have that answer, move everything to Zagreb and let's deal with Zagreb and watch it neatly and everyone, all the replicas will be in that context by the end. You are closely following the debate, and I am following, are you, the question will be very, very simple, have you heard one single sentence, one, one small sentence of a few words where any of the HDZ colleagues in their replica defended Minister Beros? ... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117786	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117787	Thank you for this question, colleague Mrak-Taritash, so I haven't really heard from you, and I have to tell you something else, so they've been prepared and they've been ordered to prepare to shoot Zagreb, but they're terribly unimaginative. Everyone says the same thing all the time. I'm getting bored. It's all I'm thinking about how many more HDZ replicas are going to be, because every time it's the same. I've heard this fellow Pavic and that godfather and that godfather before, I think 60 times. And I really don't know what to answer anymore, so it would be good to try at least one part of the replica to concentrate on the defence of Minister Beros, half or half. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117788	Okay. Let's move on. Now it's my colleague Krstulović Opera's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117789	Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary and the Honorable Dr. Kekin. I am defending Mr. Beros, and as a man who, in times of crisis, together with his fellow doctors, has made it possible, despite the fact that the system has been overloaded, that no patient with a covid will be denied a respirator or appropriate treatment. In your presentation, you listed a number of very worrying statistics from various sources and all these difficulties that have been accumulated for decades in our low health culture, let's face it, let's face it, you attributed it all to the guilt of Minister Beros. Wrong and wrong. I'll tell you what. In my town, I built a hospice and centre “Four Palms” for children, for parents of children treated in Split hospital Your government hasn't done anything in a year to put that center in motion. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117790	Thank you. Comrade Oprah Krstulović! My colleague, please. [[Opera Krstulović: So you don't know how to do your job.]] Comrade Opper, hold on to your time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117791	I didn't realize now. You did it in your town? And our authority in your city didn't put that in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117792	Comrade Oprah, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117793	Yeah, okay. So this, when you say, that I agree that in 2020 it was very brave to take over that resort, it absolutely stands in such uncertain circumstances. But I don't agree with what you've said, not every patient has received adequate care. You know how I know? Because they were treated by us psychiatrists. So, would you like to have a covid, a difficult form, being in a hospital, to be treated by a psychiatrist. I mean, what can I tell you? I personally wouldn't. I'd like it to be at least an intern, if not a pulmologist, and that was a situation that happened regularly, it happened regularly. And about how many others couldn't get to the doctor, that's another pair of sleeves. One part is that the waves were only beating on us like that, and they were flogging because the measures weren't adequate, because you didn't achieve the cleavage. That's what this is about. So Minister Berosh He didn't drive the covid well. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] No, that's why we're eight in the world for mortality.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117794	Comrade Kekin, thank you very much. Comrade Totgergeli, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117795	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Kekin, when you read your proposal to initiate trust with Minister Berosch in detail, then you can see that he is a good minister and that you should remain Minister of Health, because you have tried to prove that the health system does not allow women to be freed from pregnancy, and in fact, when it is read in detail, you have proved that the ministry and the health system respect the law, respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court and allow women to freely decide in the right to terminate pregnancy. You call him because a certain number of gynecologists have a conscience call. Well, it's in accordance with the law again, and his ministry allows gynecologists the freedom to decide again. When you talk about the pandemic, you forget to write that the Republic of Croatia, so the ministry, the government, the Prime Minister and the minister have provided enough doses for vaccination and in time And you're saying that we're a country that didn't do it right. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] 'Cause again [[Intruder President: Thank you fellow Totgergeli.]] The minister should oppose the free will of the people... [[Intruder President: Comrade Totgergeli Thank you very much.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117796	I ask you colleagues and colleagues to respect when I warn you not to go out of time like you've done now, because they all apply the same rules. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117797	Thank you. I mean, you certainly have the right to your subjective impression of what we wrote when we asked for recall. When there's an appeal to conscience here's a little bit I'm going to face you with statistics as well. We, when it comes to the number of abortions, have one of the lowest rates in the EU, the smallest women in Croatia officially abortions,... We also have one of the lowest rates of birth control, and we also wouldn't believe demographic failure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, that's the statistical impossible situation that only has two possible solutions. One thing is that we may collectively arrest all together, and the other is that abortions take place past Croatia, or outside Croatia. So what do you bet on? What exactly do you think the answer to that question is?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117798	Well, there's a third solution, but I can't do it right now. I'll tell you later. Comrade Reiner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117799	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Minister, dear colleague Kekin. I was a little confused when I listened to you saying very nicely that none of what you were saying was written in your written explanation, and you actually exposed the arguments under the quotes for the replacement of Minister Beros. None of that stands in your written submission that you want to achieve. There's a whole other thing, I'll talk about them a little later. The only thing that matters is the covid. Now, you were talking about mortality. This would all be the case if the mortality rankings were made in different countries by the same methodology but not. Aviation is also important, so the number of deaths to the number of people who are lower than the number of countries, and on average is the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117800	This is my colleague Reiner, please, 10 seconds. But fellow Oreshkovic, you're being rude, very rude, and I ask you to refrain from such a loud, accentuated laugh. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117801	Thanks for asking. So I decided to dynamics of my today's debate for which I expect it to be long and fruitful in a way that, in the name of the promoter, I will first give one such a broad picture, and then I will devote myself to being carefree of each of those individuals. So there's going to be a chance we can talk a lot. And we reason and replicate each other. I look forward to a new round of stories about a parent educator, etc. As far as I'm concerned, I mean, as far as I'm concerned, the data is very clear. So, people who were infected with covid on 100,000 inhabitants, we had the highest growth, we had a very high rate of patients. A terriblely low rate of vaccinations, and unfortunately due to the derelict system in which the psychiatrists treated each other, we had a really high rate of deaths. That's what our colleagues were talking about. So, they said I'd remind you of the rivers of sick and dying old men. That was months ago, people. We're talking. After all, 50,000 people die annually in Croatia. Last year 66,000 people died. So does anyone have to apologize to this people for that? 66,000. [[Intruder President: Comrade Kekin.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117802	My colleague Kekin, when one second goes by, you start looking at me right now when one of the MPs is talking wrong. Now you're gone. Come on, please stick to all the rules. I know it's taken you, but stick to the line. Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117803	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and you as a doctor and I know that in medicine it is very necessary teamwork. So in our daily work, let alone in running such a large system as the health system. And of course the minister can't go alone and it's not easy for him and we certainly won't go to Minister Beros. However, we ask a few questions. To even implement the improvement of the health system that the government itself acknowledges, it is necessary to take a few steps. First of all, does Minister Beros have his hands completely open by the prime minister? Even if he has some kind of vision and wants to change something. The second in the ministry itself is here and here are several individuals who are very friendly, individually wanting to help, but as a system, it's terribly slow and trom. Thirdly, we want to implement reforms need to mean and support the profession, working groups but the opinion is not respected. And eventually communication. First it goes to the media. I think it bothers me personally. Why don't you talk to the presidents first, not the media first? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117804	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117805	Thank you, colleague Maric. You're always very benevolent and constructive. I think every minister you set up your replicas is always relieved to see you because you're really constructive. And this time I agree. I also have the impression that there is no consensus among the ruling that reform is at all necessary and that we should do it at all because, as I said reform as it really is necessary to stop piling up these certain losses as the prime minister called them, it would severely damage some of the people and powerful individuals in Croatian health. And it certainly is for many members of this party who have chosen a path such as is not in the interest and that is the case. So, again, we're coming up with that private and public chase and what can be done with public money. That's a really good view of health care. For example, Medikol is one of the best examples of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117806	Thank you. Comrade Klaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117807	Dear colleagues, you've thrown out a bunch of statistics here that's mostly nothing to do with Minister Beros. They've been going through for decades. You talk too much and fast, so it reminds me of a folk proverb of a lot of speeches is no use. And I think that saying in Zagreb is very famous and that all citizens have recognized it. You talk so much, and you say so little, I doubt anyone understands or remembers more what you said at the beginning of your speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117808	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117809	I mean, here's what I'd like to tell you. I think this was indeed of all, I mean, you had serious competition the most uncontained replica, and you accused me of incompetence. What's standing there is really fast. I'm saying it's true. That's the way I've always been, and besides, I've had a lot to say because health care is really on our knees. And I gave you very specific information. I can see you couldn't follow me, but I'd be happy to give you a pass and write it down so you can read it again in peace so I don't talk so fast or so much. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117810	And the last replica of my colleague Grumo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117811	Thank you. Dear colleague Kekin, I think you have also contributed to the debate going towards some local problems in Zagreb instead of focusing on what Minister Beros did not do, and he has done very little. So, debts in our health care are growing, citizens are waiting too long for checks, and I was hoping when my colleague Bulj asked you a question about whether you would continue to support these strict measures and the sharpers who called for those measures, you said you would do the same again. This concerns me, because a good part of our citizens could not have gotten regular checks just because we had both in our health care and in our society. I'd like to ask everyone here to focus on what's wrong with our health system, and if anyone needs an education on how to make a kindergarten in a year, let Miri Bulju hear from you after the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117812	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117813	There's the Zucker who owns it, right? So, my colleague Grumoja, I think I've been counting for 20 minutes what all my colleagues Berosch didn't do as you heard, even too quickly, and I've been talking too much. As for your favorite theme of covid crisis, I'm sorry I'm going to have to disappoint you, I've also criticised the way this crisis was handled. But criticizing Minister Beros doesn't mean that the way people lie and deceive them doesn't mean that it costs them their lives. And also, if I don't like this one, it doesn't mean that I automatically support the HDZ government, which I really didn't support at any point in time. But I've always stood by and I'll stand by science, with scientific data, with what the scientific community and the profession agree on, and there the consensus was pretty clear. I agree with you that we should concentrate on Minister Berosha, that is our next task.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117814	Thank you very much. My colleague Cappelly is looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you can be colleagues of Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117815	Injury of Rules of Procedure 238. Manipulation pure. The time of the crown is mentioned that nothing was done. It is, 2020. 50% nights, tourist arrivals, e-pass. The only country safe and only with the best results in the economy and tourism I think that's enough thanks to these very people sitting there for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117816	This was a replica, of course, and you're getting a warning from a colleague named Cappelly. And now I'm going to call on the government's representatives to manifest themselves. They've got 10 minutes. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and Health Minister Willy Beros will speak. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117817	Good afternoon, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. Allow a few words about this initiative to 30 opposition MPs regarding the launch of the question of trust to the Minister of Health, William Beros. This is like we well calculated the third non-confidential initiative of the Minister plus one health impellation, plus a series of reports relating to the half-year reporting of the Public Protection Act against Infectious Diseases, dealing with Covid 19. All these initiatives have ended in the same way so far, and this initiative will end in the same way. He noticed one of the MPs, I think the vice president of the Croatian Parliament, Academyman Reiner, that Agent Kekin didn't mention anything at all from this written initiative. Accordingly, I will only say that we remain in the government's demonstration where we removed and rejected all these opposition proposals all over the points and that is the government's position, with of course strong support from Minister Beros. Several points that I think are important, and in fact this last debate in the last line was most important to me because it shows the full compliance of Mrs Kekin's position, which spoke on behalf of the opposition of the Covid 19 and of what Minister Beros represents all the time and what the entire government represents. So we trust in science, we trust in medicine, we trust in doctors. We believe that a pandemic of these proportions in the last hundred years can only be mastered in a way that gives as many of our fellow citizens the trust of professions, sciences, what we consider to be right and what has been used as a tool after epidemiological measures throughout the world. And that's why 70% of the vaccinated adults' data, 60% of the total population isn't enough. They're not enough. I'm very unhappy with that. I think it is one indicator that is not something that we would like ourselves to be in 2022 as a member of the EU. I am personally very dissatisfied with this, and I think it is one of the only relevant surveys on the state of the Croatian society, on the degree of information, on education. Ultimately, but most importantly, subjection to manipulations, untrues and misleading people. And the fact that a slower and smaller vaccine of humans than was to be vaccinated must have led to a greater number of deaths. I think we agree here, I don't think that's good at all. This covid situation is indicative. Unfortunately, a few years ago, we had a situation with some minor regional outbreaks, and then we realized how strong the anti-vaccination movement is. It is, of course, acceptable to democracy all together, but I'm not that it is medically beneficial. And it was very disappointing, so I expect that, first of all, with the joint efforts of the Minister of Health and all of you who act in public responsibilities, and especially the doctor in politics, we act even more enlighteningly and try to bring our people closer to the benefits of modern medicine. Because it doesn't mean that tomorrow some new epidemic won't surprise us again especially don't give God for a disease that we also don't have a developed vaccine for. As far as other topics are concerned, we've invested a lot of resources on health care, we've done a lot for healthcare professionals. Doctors' salaries increased 40% in our term of office. It's right here, let's say dr. Ostojić, he can confirm for himself what his salary was before our term of office, what it is today, what we have done for other healthcare professionals as well as for all employees of public and state services. How much we have done for the resolution of healthcare debts on several occasions, especially according to large-scale drugs, how much we have invested in the mandate of Minister Beros over nine billion kunas in health institutions. A huge amount of funds that are fully available from the National Recovery and Resistance Programme for healthcare, hospital capital projects. It is nice to be the Prime Minister of the parliamentary majority led by the HDZ and proud of the hospitals in Rijeka and Pula. There is also a lot of talk about Zagreb, but Rijeka and Pula are areas where the government behaves other political options, and the legacy in our mandate, one excellent collaboration with local and regional self-government units shows that we are building and strengthening health infrastructure throughout Croatia regardless of who is in power. We'll keep doing it. As far as the Health Protection Act is concerned, I think the minister will say more about reform priorities, strengthening prevention as a key element in strengthening primary health care, greater restructuring in the healthcare system, better organisation, the steps made by uniting procurement are extremely important, better patient care, reducing waiting lists in all possible variants and better health services in terms of quality availability, and prices are our policy frameworks for better healthcare in Croatia. Minister Beroš has not been relieved of his hands, but has the task of implementing the Government programme and working on the availability of healthcare, better and better quality management of the healthcare system, ensuring together with the entire Government financial stability of healthcare, continuing to raise the quality of the doctor's work conditions and ultimately improve the emergency medical care system. In that sense, he has my support and I believe he will have the support of the parliamentary majority during the debate and Friday at the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117818	I thank the Prime Minister. We're about to speak to Health Minister Willy Beros, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117819	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs. And I've prepared myself to respond to the thesis of your proposal to vote on my trust, and I'm glad you didn't repeat them because it can really be understood as a certain replication of what has been said in recent months, and I'm glad I don't have to answer, although you have announced the possibility of talking about it further and I would really like it because there are no certain grounds and it's more than clear. You state at least in the motion to vote on my impeachment you specify a series of elements that represent structures, which represent insinuations, which represent half-truths and some are even complete lies. I prefer that you have talked about the bad things in the Croatian health system that I have been talking about since the start of my term, which is two years, and I must say that I am sorry that I have not sent you before a reform proposal which is now in place after an inter-resorial agreement in the Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia which provides an answer to most of your questions, but indeed to most of the questions asked. And I have to tell you that during the epidemic of this year and a half, we are last with an epidemic and answers to the same, and we should remember those times when we were ready for his entry into the Republic of Croatia. Remember, remember our readiness when we were at the airport when the first concise Vuhan patient arrived, so the health care system was ready. And I'm glad someone mentioned that there was no need for an extra bed and a respirator at any point. And this fellow Kekin if other specialists had been involved in the treatment is a notorious fact because who would treat these patients. Not infectologists who have 150 in the Republic of Croatia or epidemiologists who are 140, so they all gave their pain including psychiatrists for which I thank them from the heart. But these are the results you can't abstract. But let's get back to reform. So, after a year and a half each week of meetings, we had a situation that we observed these dysfunctionalities, like some of you said and asked for a solution. Finally, according to the form, working groups have been established that have put forward a proposal for a reform that is comprehensive and I will now, as far as possible after a year and a half, sum up the same in four basic elements, which is exactly strengthening prevention, strengthening work diagnostics, because so far we have been in recent decades, not my two years, but in recent decades, but in full curative, means prevention, early detection, preventive systematic checks that we are going to propose to our citizens is something that is essential, then strengthening primary health care. Listen, not now my speech, but what I've been saying for the past two years, I'm aware that primary health care is a pillar of health care and that doctors have to do their job, and now they're rarely in a situation where they're over-administering what's recognized, then reorganizing a hospital system that's absolutely inadequate is essential and not a way to shut down hospitals, but to reorganize them, categorize them, credentials, etc. But in these few minutes, I couldn't say everything I needed to say. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117820	I thank the Ministers, you will have opportunities through replicas, and through later you will be able to engage in the debate. Now, I'd like to ask the Prime Minister to come back for the pay phone because he's got replicas, he's 13, he's first in line, he's a colleague of Bencic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117821	Thank you. Your Honor, Prime Minister. Well, first of all, let me tell you, given that the obvious agreement was to speak exclusively in replicas by the HDZ on Zagreb, I'm going to tell you that the first ten worst counties per development index are exactly where it has been in HDZ for 20 years. These are also those counties where health care may be located on the lowest branches. But now one question for you about health care reform. So Minister Beros said he would reorganise the hospital system, among other things, intend to do so by changing the founders or by taking away units of the regional self-government of the hospital and putting them under the influence of the state. I do not know how you intend to justify this and do so since in 2012, the Constitutional Court made a decision where it made clear that the right to co-determination in the establishment and abolition of health institutions has units of local or regional self-government as owners and founders of these hospitals. That's why I'm interested. Have you checked in advance with the Constitutional Court? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Will he stay at his practice? [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleagues Bencic.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117822	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117823	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, as far as health reform is concerned, as regards the hospital system of those who own the state, those who own the county as founders above all, I think we've seen one topic over the past few years. I don't know if you follow up on time every six months or so, the government makes one decision to transfer additional funds to health care costs. Are you following those decisions? Take a look at that decision, look at the amount of funds. So, in the end, it all ends up on the state budget of the government minister, and I think it's very important that we improve the quality of control and management of these hospitals because this is how someone else decides on the staff, and eventually pays someone with two government decisions all of what they miss out on. Co-operation, yeah, control anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117824	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117825	Thank you. Prime Minister, where are the measures now? Each tested in Croatia has a covid. Where are the measures when this policy was good? Where are the masks? Where's the gap? Each tested in the Republic of Croatia is tested mostly has a covid. Are you aware that damage has been done to human rights violations, above all, that damage to the health system has been done to the economy? I don't have a problem with that, I didn't violate human rights, although I'm in court all the time. But it doesn't matter, you've changed the law. But where are the measures now when you were right or there will be measures when someone comes to mind? Every man who is tested on covid in the Republic of Croatia has a covid, he's among us so we need to know how to live with it. How much money is lost, how much does it affect the price today? How much does this affect the social status of our citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117826	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117827	Are you going to reintroduce measures or not needed?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117828	Thanks, buddy Bull. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117829	If you want, we'll only bring them into Sinj. You're causing measures...? .../Speakers speak at the same time./... My dear Representative Bulj, I think we should consider things realistically, it's one thing to fight the covids at a time when you don't have a vaccine, the other to fight the known epidemiological measures until the vaccine has been made after that. So that's one thing. You've heard 70% of the vaccinated adults, 60% of the total, the whole series of people who have been vaccinated. You and your team were ringleaders of no vaccination, ringleader, to ringleader. That's where you went to the acting, what they're called, meetings about so-called. Freedom. We have nothing to do with the country with almost the mildest measures we could have, then you go to the people to convince that someone is oppressing someone and protecting them. It's not easy. I like that you did it. It's because I like you, but otherwise it's not too smart. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117830	Thank you very much. Col. Bull's injury, I warn you, you've got two already.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117831	What do I do now? Here I would only say for a moment that the officer was injured. The 238th Prime Minister has been injured. [[No, no, I don't know now we'll hear.]] My dear Prime Minister, your favorite prime minister is so much your love for me that you've changed the law and you're aware of what you've done, you've changed the law on infectious diseases, I've got one 50 inspection reports, you've ordered it. But what you just said, you said countless lies because we fought for human rights. You have stolen the referendum, and when it comes to you by heart, when you are ordered by your superior, you will again introduce these measures of headquarters which have caused damage. immeasurable, immeasurable [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] damages to Croatian people [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Croatian citizens, Croatian health care, Croatian economy. .../Speaker disabled./... [[Bulj fellow President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117832	Comrade Bulj, please, please, colleague Bulj. You get only a few colleagues and colleagues, don't do this, you get a third warning and you lose the right word until the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117833	What'd you turn my microphone on now? You just turned it off? .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117834	I turn it off.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117835	This and the measure you measure when the tribune measures not the tribune, when you simply.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117836	No, no, I can't rule out your end.../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117837	You don't give the right to freedom of choice. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117838	Come on, buddy Bull, don't let us move on now so I have to kick you out, please. Turn off the microphone. Let's move on, now it's my colleague's turn, not now it's my colleague's turn, not Mazhar's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117839	Thank you very much, President HS. My colleague Bulj was injured by an officer. 238, so it's not only disdaining all of us here, it's cheating. We're all aware that the start of the pandemic two years ago and now it's something else entirely. Except that people have split as well as the virus has mutated and thus weakened and is no longer so deadly. And besides human rights, the government of the Republic of Croatia took care of human lives, of the economy, of the tourist season. That's why we have a VAT increase, which is why we have the number of employees and tourist season.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117840	Comrade Mazhar, of course this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Wait a minute, on your side. [[Intruding Bull: So a burning crown.]] Comrade Bulj, please don't put me in a position now that I have to shut you all out of the debate. [[Intruder Bull: When you say.]] So, Comrade Mazhar, you've been warned. A fellow Grmoe is reporting the same for a breach of his rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117841	He's been injured. In 238, you are not talking about inflation, you are not talking about price hikes, you are not talking about how much money has been being printed in the European Central Bank in the Fed because of this crazy acute policy, lockdowns and closures. We're just about to feel war in Ukraine, and what's going on right now is the result of these policies followed by this exorcist listener that you're following.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117842	You get a warning from your colleague, and don't turn the debate into an insult now, but let's go, we could have had a nice controversy when she was a colleague of Kekin, it was attractive, interesting, but we weren't offended. Don't do this. Let's move on, now it's time for your colleague, Dark Tarritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117843	Thank you very much. Honorable Prime Minister. It is known that, in the former term of office, many ministers have left. Something went on its own request, which was very rare, a lot of them left after the debate or their trust was held in this assembly, and then they left behind, left at the very beginning of one who was the known ease when you told the secretary to prepare a decision that you would sign. And I'm wondering if there's a new custom in the government right now or if there's any new rules? On April 20th, at the current morning, I asked you a question about the call of conscience, you were quite surprised by that question, or the topic was abortion and appeal to the conscience of the doctor and you turned to Minister Beros and told him to answer, that was April 20th. There's no answer after three months. The fact that Minister Berosh Ignoring my inquiry as parliamentary representatives [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] It's okay, but I'm afraid he's ignoring you, too. [[Break President: Comrades Dark Taritash Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117844	I'm asking you to stick to time all together. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117845	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, Dark Taritash. As far as Minister Barroso's reply is concerned, I'm sure he'll answer you, if he hasn't, no matter what, I think that I spoke very clearly at the government meeting the other day about which you obviously knew more about when you asked me than anyone else. I didn't know, I didn't know, but it became very soon clear to me why you asked the question, how you quickly organized yourself, mobilized, put together and tried this horror of your rating, which is probably 0.2% on the ideological issue of the split Croatian societies a little bit up. Here you are like these absolutes I would say liars and inconsistencies, this shrub that Capula threw out of political life dares to talk now about some consequences of covid, about printing money, about the Brussels servants, so one orange that leads to the delusion of people, and.../Thank you very much/...they're a little better than you are, which is a tragedy the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117846	Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117847	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, this document I hold in my hand is a presentation called the "Proposed Health Reform". I got it through some other channels, and I didn't get it as a member of the Health Committee or at least none of us opposition agents. Something about it I received on two pages of a written parliamentary issue, and also on the current one Minister Beroš told me that the first one of this Health Protection Act will go to public consultation by 30.6., so we are not late yet. The time frame for these reforms is written in this document by 2030, which is why you, as prime minister, are thinking of calming our healthcare professionals and citizens that this health care system that you already label as unsustainable will survive, so half of your healthcare professionals will leave Croatia. What the patients say is, by 2030, you plan to change, and what you plotted by 30.6. didn't come true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117848	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117849	I don't know exactly what you've held, it's a little far for me to see, and as far as health reform is concerned, and as far as the Health Protection Act is concerned, I think you've had the opportunity to hear the ministers who are the main directions in which the entire health reforms will be contained from strengthening prevention, strengthening primary health care, reorganisation, more preventive systems, better public procurement, reorganisation of the entire hospital system, given the number of people and the number of health institutions, and what's most important is finding a solution for the financial, financial stability of the health system. As far as healthcare professionals are concerned, it is true that some of the healthcare professionals go outside, they go to better salaries, but that is also a question that is significant in many other professions, and not just in health care. If someone has done something to raise wages and it is enormous in Croatian health care whether you are a doctor or another kind of healthcare worker, we are and I do not believe that that is why everyone should escape.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117850	Thank you. Comrade Blažević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117851	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, you have spoken of what has been done in the health sector so far and you have said that it will continue to invest in that system, therefore it is certainly due to the NPOO which the team on your upper left often degrades. I ask your comment on some of the NPOO funds that are intended for healthcare and is about 2.5 billion euros, and in fact the plan does not in itself mean that this money will come unfounded but exactly the opposite, based on certain reform steps. We had prepared documents, we had a National Development Strategy, so ultimately the government's own programme to secure those funds. All this means, in fact, that significant resources will be in the healthcare system to also obtain medical equipment and strengthen human resources, which is extremely important, ensure greater availability of healthcare, modernise systems, etc. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117852	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117853	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Blažević, it is also true within the framework of the NPOO, which is complemented by what we will invest from national funds and from the usual framework, which is a 7-year budget, I think that the priorities that the Ministry of Health has been running for projects that are being implemented here are really good from KBC Split, KB Mercury, KBC Dubrav, Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute, a series of other hospitals, including the Infectious clinic Dr. Fran Mihaljevic, KBC Zagreb, General Hospital Varazdin. I think that shows the maturity and high degree of preparedness of investment projects. So in general, this NPOO aims to leave permanent traces of development infrastructure in health, but also in the educational scientific and school system, and in the judiciary, you will see in a few years when these projects are realized how much better everything will be than it is today, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117854	Thank you very much. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117855	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Plenkovic, in one thing I will give you right, it is your right to choose your associates, as long as the ruling majority of you support your right to keep these people by your side, but just as it is your right to keep them with you, it is our right to question them and it is our right to speak here about what we do not consider satisfactory and therefore I will ask you a simple question. Given the public procurement that was conducted under Mr. Beros, given how much our people are waiting for health care, but also given that every month the health system generates 400 to 500 million kunas of additional debt, are you satisfied with that and is that something you are prepared to tolerate and what you want to tolerate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117856	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117857	Thank you very much. As for the choice of co-workers, members and members of the government, it is such a system if one day you happen to choose your colossal successes for a separate life, you may be in a position to manage something called a government, and you will also choose your associates, and then someone else may question you whether they are good or not. As regards the public procurement system, they are available for control of all institutions that need to do so, to all interested entities, anyone may complain and seek a legal remedy unless they are satisfied. As for the waiting system, the list, the minister also has activities that have already been taken and the whole plan to make it as little as possible and to make things go faster, and as far as my satisfaction or dissatisfaction with Minister Beros, Minister Beros was in the elections, and in fact, a brilliant result of his trust, and someone here said he was great... Willy, that's where Willy's staying, and you can say whatever you want. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117858	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedures of fellow coat of arms please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117859	He's been injured. 238, Mr. Plenkovic, and I'll tell you, and we'll say it because everything you've listed in Mr. Berosh's quasi defense doesn't hold water. Ask people who get a mid-2023 or late that year if they are satisfied, ask now how happy he is when he has to provide additional billions in the budget every few months because the health system is not working. Your right [[Agreement: A fellow coat of arms...]] to hold them as your associates. [[Intruder: A fellow coat of arms, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117860	A fellow coat of arms, you get, you get a warning, you get a warning, and you're still out of time and don't do this, this is a pure replica. Let's move on, now it's my colleague Oreskovic's turn, and I'm sorry I didn't see my colleague Jelkovac hurt his Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117861	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A fellow coat of arms has been injured by Article 238. Rules of Procedure. You're the champion of breaking logic today. First, you praised Minister Marić today, and you also asked for his recall, so I ask if you will praise a colleague, Beros, for whom you are seeking recall today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117862	My colleague Yekovac, this was a replica, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. A colleague of Oreshkovic's is on his way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117863	The prime minister is the fact that health problems are mahogany inherited from earlier times, none of us are slow to do so. However, your government was six years old to resolve them. After the shift of controversial Kujundzic, Willi Beroš should have answered three questions. How health debt will be reduced, especially according to large-scale drugs. How to deal with the problem of lack of a doctor. And thirdly how we're going to relieve doctors of general practice from excessive administration because it leaves them with less and less time for patients. And now Berosh says that health reform is going towards prevention, diagnostics, early detection, reviewing and strengthening primary health care, that's what you said today. However, I ask, and where are our people respected ministers and respected prime minister? Already 300 family medicine doctors are missing, leaving more than 500,000 insurance workers without a basic doctor, and at the same time 650 doctors are over 60 years old, which means that in the next 5 years and more half a million kunas remain without primary health care. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117864	Thank you, dear colleague Oreshkovic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117865	Thank you very much, Minister Beros will be sure that during the afternoon much more detailed than the 3 minutes he was allocated to clarify the direction of reform of the health system, and as far as the doctor is concerned, there are exactly not as many as they should be because they are also using what the MOSTs brought to us thanks to EU membership, and then they go to freedom of movement where their salaries are higher, and the knowledge they have as doctors who are educated in Croatian medical schools are very well used in other countries. But these are facts and it is a liberalised labour market and freedom of movement. As far as reform is concerned, one way to motivate people to stay here is to pay. I think we've increased the wages to doctors on average almost 40%, that fact is not small and all other healthcare professionals, there are few sectors that have received so many pay increases, and that's motive that They stay and work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117866	Now it's Comrade Bauk's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117867	Thank you. Mr. President, Mrs. Chawide's case and this US verdict have again updated the question of women's rights to decide freely on the birth of children in at least Croatia. Commenting on that at the government's meeting, you've called today, you've made several factual legal formulations and evaluations and one political assessment that I can and I don't have to agree with. You have stated that supplementing the Constitution with women's right to free decision on the birth of children would be unnecessary. The word unnecessary has multiple, at least double connotations, but I would ask you to consider whether this supplement would also be harmful because if it were unnecessary then just don't do anything to get it in, and if it were harmful then you would actively object to entering the Constitution, so I would like to hear your opinion on whether it is harmful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117868	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117869	I'm glad to see that you're listening very carefully to what I've been saying to the government about the Supreme Court's ruling in the matter of a letter and it seems to me that you've been pleased. Now you're asking something I didn't say. Is that true? That's it. I'll ask you now. You tell me when you were in power, you boasted terriblely with the great majority, then the Constitutional Court had not yet shown itself on this subject at all. Why didn't you change everything then? Why didn't you give the law? Why didn't you change the Constitution? What you have caught now is us and our majority to impose on us topics, to condition a very thoughtful intelligent intelligence with a broad support for the amendments to the Constitution, constitutional law, the referendum law that will even regulate that matter in a much more appropriate way that facilitates the referendum, but precises its themes. As Istanbul Convention, you didn't have the courage, you wait for the moment when you're in opposition to get up a little ideologically. from the bottom of 10%. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I understand, but it's not easy for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117870	Thank you very much. Comrade Kekin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117871	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, you're telling the Prime Minister that you're going to take the hospitals to local self-government to control the debts of the new reform as proposed. So since we know how debts are made, here's an example, so the debts are created in a way that the ministry makes contracts with private polyclinic couples who in 14 years pay a billion kuna for PETCT search, and four appliances that we need can be bought for 60 million kuna. In doing so, I would point out that if not only did men defend women here, I would point out at the expense of the SDP that the only apparatus that was purchased was for the SDP government for public health and then in those 4 years, while the SDP was in power, you can look at the reports of the Medikol being significantly reduced by the inflow, and when you come to power, it is again growing inflows. During Dr. Berosha 170 million kunas, 60 million kunas are appliances Is this your way of reforming the system? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Or is it about setting [[Thank you very much.]] Is there another Chorusic somewhere, and is he... [[Intruder: Thank you, beautiful colleague Kekin.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117872	Comrade Kekin, thank you very much, please, for 3-4 seconds, but don't go any further. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117873	I must admit that the esteemed representative Kekin didn't catch that quote of yours, that I said we'd take the hospitals. Who said that,.../The Intruder doesn't understand. And it wasn't me. And you said that I said so, so not but if you did, but you have to have proof that the public and colleagues and colleagues explain to you what the quote is that I said we'll take someone's hospital. If you find such a formulation here I'll apologize immediately and I'll say I've told the government coming and hijacking all the hospitals because the JLS, their role in the health system. Did we write that? It must have been in our pre-election program, it's in the government's programme, it's in the draft health reform of Minister Berosa's health essentially that's his light motive, it says on every page we come and take hospitals. Dear Representative Kekin, as you said today about what you did in writing a month ago, I don't know, so now You're making up a theme. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117874	Thank you very much. Comrade Kekin, please, I thought you were throwing yourself out of the bench again, but I'm sure you weren't throwing it away. Let's move on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go,
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117875	Thank you. Honorable Prime Minister. Since I moved to Croatia, I have made sure that the level of treatment in our country is very high, we have very good doctors, nurses, it has proved that they can do very well under the difficult circumstances of the pandemic. However, I come from a medical family and what I'm saying critics at the expense of our health care concerns the model management of how money is spent. I don't know if you're aware that in Croatia there are over a thousand private health institutions, over a thousand, and besides them are waiting lists of very long, very long, and people are rightly unhappy long waiting, the service is not at the right level. At the same time, there is a large amount of money, and I argue that we cannot achieve a rationalisation of expenditure without introducing a market mechanism into the system. We're kind of spinning in a vicious circle. So I'm wondering if this one's supposed to be reform includes such measures? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117876	Thank you very much, dear colleague Bartulica. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117877	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bartulica, and I'm glad that you have been so commendable about the Croatian health system, that's good, that's right. Well, isn't that the most important thing? Well, I think that the level of treatment is quite important and it's very good to say it to someone who comes originally from the United States, it was for a while if I followed your path well and in Italy say so, so you were in systems where there are, or two countries where there are huge large health systems and I would say with maybe a little more isolation for health care than it is for us and per capital, and in general, not to talk, but it's good to praise our doctors. As far as private health institutions are concerned, they're here and decisions have been made long before our government and it's hard for us to get into a situation to say we won't be any more private health institutions. I think you're like someone who comes from a system where capitalism stands, developed. You'd hardly agree to that. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117878	Injury to my colleague Bartulic's rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117879	Here, I'll risk the warning. I just want to make it clear. So I have nothing against private health institutions but next to them still the public system is under collapse. So, the way you manage it and how money is up to 30 billion kunas spent on us, no one can be satisfied with it. That's what this is about. So it's not the doctors or nurses that are to blame, it's the people who run the system, and all the time I'm appealing to maybe introduce a practice to the managers. They run the system, not the specialists. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117880	Thank you very much. Of course you'll have to get a warning because this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, now it's Comrade Matula's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117881	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Honorable Prime Minister. You were able to say earlier that colleague Kekin was making up a topic, so this whole thing that you said was already the third initiative you really think it was all made up for the third time? Is it possible that you did not notice that all three initiatives were made at times when doctors, their associations, sisters also their associations, health workers together with patients, with all people, patient associations it was once when there was an epidemic, each time there was but an important and great reason, and it always focused on the minister who was here, it seems that so far you didn't have a single word of arguments possible that now will follow arguments [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] who each got written. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117882	Here you go. Comrade Matula, please don't accuse you in this way of colleagues from the majority because they're going to start telling you that you're writing the same thing, it's humiliating, don't do it. Every MP elected here has the right to ask him how he wills, not just you, but some other insinuate continuously that one of the MPs doesn't have his own brains, but to have someone write something to him, and I'm following it, and that's incorrect, that's incorrect. Here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117883	... I think it's just that I didn't say it, I just figured it out. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Intruder President: Get involved.]] The first time you could hear me, there's no way I'm saying it, you sure as hell didn't hear me. I've only found here that so far there has been no argument in favour of the minister because they've been prepared for later, I hope.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117884	But you see now, I don't think I'm going to pollemize now, not true, colleague Maric, colleague Pavić spoke, colleague Andro Krstulovic spoke. What I asked you to do isn't important, it's important that we don't be correct about our colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, colleagues from the ruling majority represent one policy and, accordingly, they ask their questions. You're from the opposition and you're asking your questions. So how about every time you ask a question I tell you someone wrote it to you you can't figure it out yourself? It's just not fair. Let's not argue now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117885	238, I must say, I've never said that before in two years. Check every video, personally never.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117886	My colleague Matula, I didn't... Come on, have a seat. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, I didn't say that you do it all the time, but that's what your colleagues and colleagues do, and I asked you not to do it, I didn't even give you a warning, I just invited you not to do it, not saying you've done it before. All right, let's move on. You have the Prime Minister's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117887	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Matula, I listened very carefully to what you asked me, and you didn't ask me anything. Is it true? Well, you're a great actor, you're such a great actor that you told me at first that I said this wasn't a topic. I said very precisely, Mrs. Kekin said that I said that we would take hospitals that weren't state-owned, and I didn't say that. Then you wanted to expand it a little bit like this so it turns out that we're saying something that isn't true, but we're listening to what you're saying. Maybe it looks like we're not listening. And you've been like a great actor to me, and I've watched you a lot as a kid and you've been great to me, because you're retired, you've got a good saying. But what you're saying as a politician em isn't true, it's even rude, it doesn't even make any sense, give me a line without asking, stingy, nothing, zero points like you didn't say anything in the paper discussion. a spell that was totally missed. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117888	Thank you very much. And last replica, you still have a cabinet president, still a colleague of Peovic's. Here you go. [[Intruding Plenkovic: Good.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117889	Thank you. It kind of seems to me like you're getting a little tickled by this initiative of returning abortions to the constitution. You said there was a way why it wasn't someone who solved the SDP before you and you called out why you threw it at us, so what you didn't solve before. I'll remind you so your people have thrown it out of the constitution, we're just returning it to the constitution. But then you said it was one ideological topic on which someone wants to profit, and now you've confused me a little bit, I have to admit, yes, because I don't know if you're aware of it, but the two-thirds majority of your voters agree that the woman has the right to choose. And it's perfectly legitimate to ask that question what do you think about it? Why is this initiative of yours launched by the Workers' Front so problematic from your perspective? And answer it between yourself and your own voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117890	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117891	Dear MPs Peovic, as far as we're concerned, we were neither found nor disturbed. I'm just asking you about whose trust in institutions and legal doctrines do we believe or don't believe here? Who don't you trust? Do you not trust us from the parliamentary majority that we have a very clear policy, which is that we advocate the protection of life because we believe that life begins with conception, but we also respect women's right to choice and health. So then you heard the President of the Constitutional Court, you saw the Constitutional Court's decision, you heard his position. Who don't you trust? Who don't you trust? We're here as a right hand, and we have this attitude. Then who do you not trust? To yourself? We've been very clear. There's something tickling you, and it tickles you just to get [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] a little ideological mobilization, nothing... [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117892	Thank you, Prime Minister. And now they're going to be a replica for Mr. Berosch's health minister. We have a breach of our rules of procedure. Here you go, colleague Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117893	238, the Rules of Procedure in Art. 238. 238, the prime minister suggests I said we didn't trust anyone. No, I didn't say that. We already have the right to abortion, and it didn't happen, although it would have been nice for a colleague Bartulica in his amanet to have it going either from Markićka, but it happened precisely because of the privatisation of health care and the commercialisation of health care you've been introducing for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117894	Thank you very much. You get a warning, this was also a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Greetings to the Prime Minister. Let's go, Minister. You have 22 replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117895	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, we've had a bad introduction here Mrs Kekin knew nothing about practically or talked about this watch, and the city of Zagreb is neither talking about purity nor kindergartens, nor about parent-teacher measure, about Holding, nothing, but she signed the first point of the 4th USKOK investigation into business with CUSPIS or Kuspis as to how it is read I don't know, d.o.o. He says this way, they've been confirmed to launch reconnaissances, namely the State Audit has discovered suspicious payments there's no evidence that the job was done on such a scale. Those are their allegations and they're signing. Now that we apply it to them and their criteria, and they say it's a cache, we have investigations and reconnaissances in the city of Zagreb. We don't know what the revision is going to write for this last '21, and I'm not sure there's or there's no evidence that all the jobs are done on such a scale, at least when we see Purity, when we see Purity and those scraps and all that. Then explain to them [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Which is the point where we don't talk about it anymore today. [[Intruder President: Comrade Boric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117896	Comrade Boric, please. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117897	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, it's a topic that was really in this proposal, and it's supposed to be elaborated because it repeats itself from time to time depending on the political need. So please check and thank you for encouraging the institutions to verify this public procurement, namely it is completely transparent and in accordance with the law. This was confirmed by the State Attorney's Office, which was confirmed by the DUR because it gave an unconditional opinion on financial operations, this was confirmed by the Personal Data Protection Agency and finally by the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. And why do you repeat this untruth continuously? So, please once again, you have an electronic public procurement notice to check all the data, so guesses at the ministry according to no information firm was available. All transactions were obtained in a legitimate manner and carried out in accordance with the conditions of procurement, paid also in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117898	Thank you very much. A colleague of the Dark Tarrits in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117899	... HS. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] I refer to the article. In 238, Minister Beros did not answer the question asked by the distinguished representative Boris, he referred to the state of cleanliness in the City of Zagreb, to the waste in the City of Zagreb, to the state of the crusher and everything else, and Minister Beros did not answer that, but rather something else entirely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117900	My colleagues, Mr. Taritash, you know what's coming, you get a warning. Now they're going to talk to counterpart Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117901	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Assembly, the Honorable Minister, who is this, for the third time we defend you, and for the third time we will successfully defend you. Let's remember the beginning of the Covid crisis when many more developed countries like Italy doctors had to choose who would have to survive who would not, who would go to the respirators. Then the prime minister and you reacted, called the Prime Minister of China, and we had enough respirator, mask and equipment. Let's think of 2,000 new doctors in the system for the last four years. So much investment 2.5 billion from the National Recovery Programme. We have a billion and a half kuna from VFO, 500 million kuna from the National Recovery Program. So, exactly what you're doing, the reform you announced... And as for human rights, there are no colleagues from the MOST to explain to those who have not been vaccinated, they have listened to them, and today they are not with us how they protected their human rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117902	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117903	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, yeah, I'm listening to these stories, some of them are really grounded, but most of them aren't. And I wonder who the rain is? Whether it's a shower to me as a minister or it's a shower to all those health care professionals who've brought an epidemic to their backs, who you're knocking on the door today in medical need, who continued during the epidemic on and closing with the usual activities of implementing, say, national programs, and even more so, colleague Kekin forgot to tell us that we've introduced a new national programme, which is an early detection program of lung cancer for those who have been burdened with a history. That's what she missed to say, but I don't blame her. It's something that was made during the epidemic. So, with dealing with infectious problems, we've found ways to step up. I also announced the introduction of another additional programme of national discovery of melanoma. And I thank the dermatologists for that idea that we have Of course recognized and supported. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117904	Thank you, thank you. Comrade Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117905	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, here in this part of which the opposition calls and calls you, it is also accused that health care is directly or indirectly responsible for the great mortality of our citizens. The same ones who, on the one hand, are saying that the introduction of measures that were balanced and that they went in terms of maintaining health on the one hand and on the other hand preserving jobs as well as the introduction of vaccines have done great damage. These days, we read how the renowned London Institute conducted, published a study based on the 185-state data showing that more than 20 million people were preserved from death precisely because they were vaccinated, the vaccine had been administered, and that the number would be significantly smaller, significantly higher, that all countries were holding the same amount of vaccine. And... [[Intruder: Time.]] but also vaccines. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117906	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117907	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's what I'm going to tell you, so I'm glad that my colleague Kekin is back and I'm really going to say that I appreciate that she's a scientist, but she's not an epidemiologist, so as a neurosurgeon, it's easy for me to do science in my field, but epidemiology doesn't exactly. When we comment on mortality, then we don't have to compare pears and apples. Namely, there are several ways of determining the world's mortality. It's a rough rate of mortality that we used, that's how many people died, and that's an excess of mortality. Some countries like Germany are now in a situation where they have far fewer deaths by a rough estimate, but now they have an excess of mortality that they cannot explain. So it needs to be evaluated. Furthermore, it should be said that of the 12 countries with the highest mortality except Peru, which is the first place we have 12 Central European countries, which is very likely in relation to the health condition and age of patients. The average age of our dead is 76.6 years which also speaks for itself. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117908	The next replica honours Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117909	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers of State, from the last of your steps these days, it seems to me that we have finally put the patient at the heart of your events. It was a finding. And second, I'd like to comment on the Immunology. We are all very well aware of what we have been doing for a long time in the health care system, which once meant the Immunological Institute to us, as well as to the health system, and for the economy. I think it's an excellent decision of your initiative, and the government's decision to revitalize the Immunological. Can you tell me what's going on right now?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117910	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117911	I thank you for the question, Madam Parliamentarian. And each other are extremely important questions. So, we're really getting the patient back into focus, and he got lost somewhere along the way. However, the fact is that apart from the natural rights the patient has must have certain obligations. Therefore, in the new bill, we will go in this direction without reducing any rights, adding minimum obligations to visit people on their own health care. Immunologically, it is a very important topic, after decades of inaction by this government, the ministry itself as a minister has taken a number of steps, the government's plan and programme for the revitalisation of the Immunological Institute that has been adopted, but because of certain problems that we could not influence, and the relation to the legal problem on the land in Bezje, we had to reorient. But very soon within a few weeks we found a new country in Rugvica and I can get out of this place and promise to relive the first phase within a year, which is the production of the snake's antitoxin so much needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117912	The next replica is the respected Andro Krstulovic Oprah.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117913	It was very clear, Mr. Minister, during the pandemic crisis that you, as a member of headquarters, were making decisions that were balanced between the health of the nation and the sustainability of the economy. I'll remind you, 50 million nights in 2020. which is 50% of the nights achieved compared to the previous 19th, it clearly says that you as a doctor, as well as all of your colleagues are quite well-trained for this economic segment. If you are considering introducing the necessary education, economic education for healthcare managers, or directors, who, with their top skills, would be given these skills that are shown to our headquarters as visible and absolutely necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117914	Thank you, Mr. Parliamentarian. Yes, it was necessary to find this balance that enabled in some way the co-existence of economic activities and the existence of the virus around us, we sought long these measures that would thus be balanced, hopefully we succeeded. Of course, if you look at the whole thing, you see things one way, if you look at isolated segments and elements you can look at them another way, and there's all the headquarters and all the countries exposed in some way to possible criticism. However, we have indeed tried to look for this balance in Croatia, and you remember the moments when we have combined which all countries have banned from moving to trade, and in Croatia most of the activities could be carried out normally, then we have to be satisfied. When it comes to this, I am sorry that my fellow Bartulice is not here right now, that the new bill will also include the fact that directors will have to have further education in economic sciences in order to be able to manage the medical functioning of the hospital other than the medical section.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117915	Next replica, the esteemed Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117916	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, the biggest critics in Croatia, you personally, governments and headquarters are those who opposed vaccination in Croatia, are the top critics and who accuse you of a relatively high mortality rate, which claimed that measures are restrictive, that they are too harsh and that there is no need to introduce any measures at all. You mentioned earlier and that is true, Croatia is 8th in the world by the number of deaths, but it is very interesting that in the first 12-11 states of the Central European Civilian Circle, so the states that are in our, our environment. What does this mortality rate say about us being among countries that are practically neighbouring countries that have about the same measures, is this about the age of the people, is this about certain diseases that have not been treated enough, and is this perhaps about the percentage of separation for the medical, supplemental or supplemental means in the healthcare system in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117917	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117918	Thank you, Mr. Parliamentary Representative. Therefore, there is no question of the relationship between the number of people vaccinated and the number of deceased. Vaccination, as we claim from the outset, has just prevented serious forms of disease and the fatalities especially in elderly and immunocompromised patients. This is a fact that is irrefutable, so we were really trying to improve the vaccination process. However, there is a certain mistrust of citizens in terms of lack of health literacy which in some ways caused vaccination to be the case in the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to the cause of mortality, the absolute age of the population is one of the basic factors, I have already said that the average age of the deceased in Croatia is 76.6 years, therefore extremely high, which is in relation to their condition, chronic diseases, diabetes, predominant hypertension and in terms of lack of prevention have not been adequately treated in our country over the last 10 years. It is these legal proposals and changes that we seek to make improvements on this plan as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117919	The next replica, the esteemed Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117920	Dear Minister, unfortunately, they say that in life nothing is forgotten more slowly than an insult, and that nothing is forgotten faster than charity. Unfortunately, our individual opposition representatives forget very quickly what all medical professionals have done for the benefit of our health in the covid crisis. They also forget very quickly what the government has done to preserve the tourist season, preserve jobs and preserve the economy. How do you comment on the dementia of our individual parliamentary representatives and unfortunately politicians? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117921	So I will generally answer you and tell you that the task of the opposition is to question, to criticise, that in some way it encourages those who are in power to do better, but unfortunately in these cases that you mentioned, I think it was an obstruction, that it was about repeating the subject, that it was about non-compliance in the given circumstances, because you know some have claimed that it was a disease that would not spread and that would not cause more changes, but we saw ourselves not only in Croatia but in the whole world what it has received. And yes, some things are being forgotten too quickly, and so I said at the beginning of my exposure that it was important to remember that in Croatia we were ready for the arrival of the virus and before it came and were on land-based either way so Dubrava Hospital in a few days was transformed into a covid hospital with over 40 beds of intensive treatment because we saw what was happening in the neighborhood, specifically in Italy and we wanted to improve the health system that we did.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117922	Next replica, the esteemed Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117923	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I'm going to ask you a question about health reform and the position of mental health in health reform. So I'm interested in what stage health reform is in, and I'm sure I'll be active during the adoption of the new law. I think that we need to develop psychology in the community, we must finally come up with a strategic framework for the development of mental health and national strategy for the prevention of addiction because it is a serious public health problem, and in this context, the state should also organise programmes for improving especially for children and adolescents, but also people of older age who are particularly vulnerabilities and sometimes we do not pay that much attention to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117924	Thank you, Mr. Parliamentary Representative. As we brought the National Strategic Framework against Cancer, against Oncological Diseases that stood for years, we hurried it out, and I can promise you from this place that the National Strategy for Development of Mental Health and the National Anti-Addiction Strategy will soon be referred to public consultation and then to HS. Therefore, mental health and addiction also need to be cared for. But you asked me an even more important question, which is the status of implementing the health reform. As I have already said, she passed the stage when working groups, expert working groups that included a number of stakeholders from unions, chambers, employers' associations, various other stakeholders said theirs, followed a round of inter-resorship cooperation and cross-resor comments, and at the moment the reform in the prime minister's office after which the green light would be sent to public consultation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117925	Next replica, the esteemed Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117926	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister. Here at the beginning of the debate we heard from the opposition promoter that we have no questions for you today or that we are not talking about facts, and the fact is that now that any of you here directly can turn from opposition to A or B or question to nothing, only Mrs. Raukar, as I have seen a question from the entire opposition, so smart enough. Let's face it, the facts are that despite the pandemic that has hit the whole world and we have fought back globally both as state and concrete measures and vaccine and everything that we have done as a government of the Republic of Croatia and as part of the government to preserve jobs, and this has been used by 700,000 workers, 120,000 private workers. Thanks to this today, not that we have preserved jobs, but if we look at comparisons with the beginning of the mandate in October 2016. We have 408,000 jobs and 408,000 more employees of Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117927	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117928	So here's after your question I can't really decide that I'm happy or unhappy with the fact that we've gone over these already seen issues recycled from the attached proposal for my recall, but I also have to say that I'm happy to talk about reform and I think a lot. Reform is something you need, reform is something that has already been made up in principle, reform is something where I urge you to perceive after you see it. Some of you already have it, they could at least comment on it, it's not ideal, but it's the best at this moment that this administration can offer. And someone mentioned my advisory body, yes, I took these people not to generate problems the way they've done so far but to hear their experience about the proposed measures. So, they did not participate in the proposal of the measures themselves to change new elements, but I needed their experience, and these are academics, dean of medical colleges, these are economists who deal with the financing of health systems it was very important to hear their experience. And you will be invited, and I look forward to the moment. when we discuss most of the things you mentioned in the debate. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117929	The next replica honours Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117930	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Minister Beroš, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I believe that the Croatian health system is efficient, successful and resilient and that it should only continue to be upgraded and built on and improved. What I want to especially praise is the withdrawing funds from the NPOO for the health segment, so here is the current call for direct grant of 160 million kuna for KBC Split, for the Merkur and Dubrava Hospital Centre, and there are calls from 754 million kuna for other hospitals. What I particularly commend is building a new KBC of Rijeka, which is the biggest investment in Croatian health care ever and will be. for the benefit and benefit of benefit [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Nearly 600,000 citizens who are gravitating the Primorian-Gorski County. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117931	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117932	Thank you very much. Therefore, it should be said that it is a real blessing that we are members of the EU who, once before, are not seen with a crisis assistance instrument, which is a programme for recovery and future resistance to such crisis situations that represent chronic non-infectious diseases and other conditions. So the possibility of withdrawing grants and investing in our health system is incredibly important, so 2.7 billion will be an amazing contribution to the future state of the Croatian health system. And when you ask me about it, I will tell you that we have found the best among others both in Varazdin and in Split and in KB Dubrava and in KBC Zagreb and in HZJZ. And when it comes to Pula, then a billion and a river of pardons, a billion and hundreds of millions of kunas of new investments in the beautiful KBC building of Rijeka, I think it's the real thing, mainly for the population that is gravitating that hospital. I think it's even three counties, of course with those coming there, so it's amazing. Step for the region and generally for the entire Croatian system. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117933	Next replica respected Nadica Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117934	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Minister. Availability, quality and efficiency of healthcare are at the heart of the development of Croatian health care, e.g. The availability of health care in islands, in rural areas, the approximation of the system to citizens, etc., so my question to you respected ministers, which makes the ministry look at the situation and check availability in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117935	Thank you very much. Therefore, availability and quality of healthcare are essential and not only in urban areas such as Zagreb, it is mainly important for rural areas. Therefore, the Ministry shall, on a daily basis, check the state of the waiting lists through HZZO and directly to hospitals, on the basis of the instructions of the county health authorities, as it is most important to ensure this availability. In response to the potential and present difficulties of new amendments to the law, and yet, while relying on the NPO, we also envisaged the introduction of mobile pharmacies or mobile ambulances that would be available to these people in these rural, passive environments. So that's the answer to one of the answers in the way we're going to increase the availability of healthcare. Yeah, it was there and there was a lack, and I think Dr. Kekin said the same thing, a lack of personnel. We have a certain solution, a transitional solution, with hundreds of specializations being paid from the European funds, so I'll tell you another time. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117936	The next replica of Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117937	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Honorable Minister's opposition calls you among other things for debts in health care, due to debts to large-scale drugs. Do you know what your sin is that at this time, in this pandemic time, time and economic crisis, you may not have additionally burdened our citizens because we know very well that we are at the very bottom of the scale in Europe by how much we stand out for health insurance? Have you perhaps committed a sin by increasing your personal income to health care workers by 40%? Is it possible that it is a sin to reduce your debt to suppliers in just a year's time by 30%, and thus to prevent the wholesalers from stopping us from delivering certain drugs? What is your sin, and how could you reduce these debts at this very pandemic time and time of economic crisis?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117938	Only with exceptional effort and cooperation with my colleague, Maric, and I am just glad that you gave me the opportunity in some way to disprove the allegations that we were in conflict and that we were not working well together. In fact, we've cooperated well, and that's why for the past six months, we haven't seen the wholesalers knocking on our door again because we've sort of agreed on a payment plan and reached an agreement with them on how to control the costs. I'm going to tell you that this crisis has really put on a lot of challenges and that it has increased the total cost of health care, the cost of vaccination, the cost of medicines and the cost of sick leave over several billion kunas, and that's an unforeseeable new cost, but the fact is that at this point we have 3.2 billion dues, that these debts are up to 60 days, and that debts over a year are worth more than one, listen to me 0.01%. So we have achieved a certain step, but far from not having to control further health costs, that we don't need colleagues Kekin to measure the outcomes of treatment, we have to and we'll do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117939	Next replica of the esteemed Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117940	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, all these allegations in the motion not to show confidence to you, I think they're absolutely incorrect, that they're unfounded, etc. And why is that? Because for all this time, you've been facing major problems in the health system since the pandemics, earthquakes, etc. Not to list, preserve one quality, one quality and available care for all of us. For all of us on equal terms. Because if that weren't the case, I'm sure that many colleagues who signed this proposal wouldn't, and they will if it were necessary to ask for help in that particular health system of ours because they trust him. So they don't trust themselves when they sign this, and it would be good for some of them to look at how it's on just one step down in the City of Zagreb where neither teachers' mothers nor persons are respected. with disability, where one mayor at the beginning of the term of office comes into conflict with everyone. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117941	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117942	Thank you, Madam Parliamentarian. Indeed, concern about the availability of healthcare during the pandemic was almost a priority. There were times when she was really for justifiable reasons not only in Croatia but in all of Europe and the world difficultly available, but while we learned to live with the virus in some way this availability was improved. I must also mention what has also been forgotten that by adapting Dubrava to Covid Hospital we have established an oncological cool centre at the Ministry of Health which in a few weeks has solved tens of thousands of orders precisely in terms of ensuring availability of healthcare in other hospitals that have in some way increased their capacities and provided those patients. So the availability of healthcare is essential and we also look at the entire epidemic, especially profuturo. There were speeches about it, and someone mentioned I think again Dr. Kekin and rural areas and islands, etc. And indeed We have been thinking and on finding a solution in these regions as well. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117943	The next replica, the esteemed Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117944	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, I would first and foremost like to congratulate you and give full support for all this time you do and as a minister, and first and foremost as a man you've been going through safely from our colleagues, two groups of MOSTs, and now we can, in our own way, in one impatience, ignorance, politics, activists in all sorts of ways to call it, but everything you've done and in the pandemic you said health care has a lot of problems, but above all those problems that are being solved you want constructive suggestions to hear, but unfortunately we won't experience it because we can have an opportunity in the City of Zagreb to do a lot of things constructive besides riots, conflicts, interesting and financial losses they don't know anything else. So here's really full support for what you're doing and I want this health reconstruction to really be be quality in opportunities at this moment which.../Speakers speak at the same time not understood. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117945	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117946	Yes, thank you for that, but I would just like to mention how flexible our health system was and how much, how much the Health Ministry's crisis headquarters had to coordinate actions every day in terms of people's shifts and material technical equipment to meet all needs. It was those times, and I think we responded well to them. However, I would also like to mention that during the pandemic we did other things. Here I can list a few steps that our doctors made during the pandemic and, KBC Rebro transplant both lung tissues, also an uninvasive way of treating chronic back pain, also in Split a laparoscopic gynaecological surgery, in Rijeka an uninvasive procedure to resolve the fractures of the heart barrier, so during the pandemic we were dealing with medicine, we developed it, we introduced a new national programme, the transplant program in Croatia did not stop and now that in this way the Croatian health system is being criticised and his answer indeed. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117947	The next replica of the esteemed mistress Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117948	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, one of the reasons for starting trust is the case of Cavida. The case has caused heated controversy, which in health circles, I can rightly say even divisions in society. With regard to my question to you, was it, if yes, how many interruptions of pregnancy over 22 weeks were in the Republic of Croatia back a few years and how were they conducted?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117949	Yes, when it comes to medically indicated pregnancy interruptions above 22 weeks, there were 17 such terminations from 2019 to this year. In case of pregnancy interruptions up to 22 weeks, 2,242 pregnancy discontinuations were observed. They shall be carried out in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the opinion of the profession either by induced birth or by induced abortion up to 22 weeks. It is a procedure that is common, however which Mrs. Cavida refused and made it possible to choose and HZZO financed the completion of pregnancy in the way it was accepted. Otherwise, I would like to say that in this case, in addition to the minor loss in the procedure one day when the Holy Spirit is contrary to procedure, I referred to the second-degree committee for the opinion of its documentation and the next day it was corrected, the major disputes or the shorts of the right were not corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117950	Next, the next replica honours Nikola Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117951	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Dear Ministers, a health reform has already been mentioned, we know that it has already begun, and that it is divided into an organisational and financial area, as well as the human resources area. You recently said in the media that in health reform we are returning to the press and that focus is on preventive checks. So my question is at what stage is health reform now, and what are the basics?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117952	Well, thank you very much. Partly the question has already been answered. At the moment, it is located in the prime minister's office before the public consultation approval will take 30 days. During public consultation all citizens, all those who think they can say something please tell them to advance the health system. We, you can be sure, will evaluate all proposals very carefully because our goal is to improve the health system for our patient. So, like we said, we're bringing the patients back to focus with a return to prevention, or you've told the press line well, so we're lost somewhere in the administration in highly sophisticated medicine, and we're not dealing with the patient as much as we should. The idea in the Ministry of Health has therefore arisen on the need for very specific, targeted, systematic examinations for citizens for whom the age and age structure profession and sexual structure will organise a set of searches to be carried out in family medicine. Someone asked how we'd do it, if there'd be enough capacity, we'd make sure they would.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117953	The next replica, the esteemed Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117954	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Minister with the Secretary. The opposition, the opposition has often called you on the organisation of the system's functioning in the pandemic. As far as the pandemic is concerned, did the ministry, under your leadership, react on time and adequately? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117955	Well, thank you for that. I don't know how much you remember these beginnings of the pandemic when we said every few days that we were in phase two, so we first expected the virus, so he came, so he started spreading under controlled conditions, and we started spreading uncontrollably, and we had the answer to those challenges. As you know, we quickly established the primary respiratory intensive centre in Dubrava, which was designed to treat the most difficult patients with respiratoryly dependent and then we calculated the Italian script, and Maya helped, that we would need about 400 to 450 respirators, and we had them ready at the same time because we didn't want the virus to enter all the institutions at the same time because the introduction of the virus at that stage of a very invasive and infectious in the health care facility meant possible spread to other departments and endangerment and closure of hospitals as we had the case in China and Italy. So we've adapted to one specific method of defense over the coming challenges... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117956	Next replica, respected Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117957	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Minister, here I agree that the opposition has the right to criticise and have the right to express its views, but I think the bottom line is either to say that I've been asked a question. I'm a man in the seventh decade, I guess I can ask some question whether it's good or not is less important, and so from everything I've heard, it's pretty, pretty stupid. But what I want to ask you is that you got all the necessary equipment when the covid showed up, you did get the vaccines, you got the respirators, and you actually came from the hero of the nation to someone who's looking for a recall just because those antivaxers were performing that way and they wanted to degrade everything you're doing and covid declared by ordinary caries that we actually realized it wasn't, because that cavities had been taken. 16000 lives. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117958	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117959	Thank you. A respected colleague has no bad questions but bad answers so it's legitimate to ask everything. Yeah, at that point, we were really trying to get protective equipment and it looked like science fiction, but we finally realized it. If you remember our prime minister was in direct contact with the Chinese Prime Minister and we secured very quickly and functionally the moment when great countries including America at European airports fought for planes and protective equipment, we obtained sufficient amounts of protective equipment, means masks, hats, gloves, protective suits for all our mainly healthcare professionals, but also masks for use. This was of extreme importance, since if we had not responded well there could have been a Chinese scenario where health care professionals were exposed to extreme risk due to lack of protective equipment and died in large numbers. When it comes to the acquisition of vaccines, but not only vaccines but also different medicines, this government has also taken care of with the help of joint procurement. The European Commission has certainly come up with the necessary amount of vaccine. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117960	Next replica, dear Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117961	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. I've already said that this opposition proposal against you is contradictory and a little hypocritical. However, under point 6 it is said that it is your fault that not enough people have been vaccinated in the Republic of Croatia. So now I'm wondering if you as Minister have managed to ensure that during 2021 every citizen of the Republic of Croatia who wanted to do so could have been vaccinated? Or is there also a citizen in the Republic of Croatia in 2021 who wanted to be vaccinated, which he was denied. Or even if there are citizens from Bosnia and Herzegovina who came to the Republic of Croatia and wanted to be vaccinated that they were denied it. We can even spread it to some countries in an environment or some countries in Europe. It is hypocritical because, in one place, the right to freedom of choice of citizens will be vaccinated or will not be given to you, and on the other hand, again, you are burdened with the right to freedom to gynecologist decide whether or not he has a conscience call. It's your fault again if he decides he does. [[Invader Sanader: Time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117962	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117963	Yes, the question is the response to vaccination is very complex and includes different sociological elements. However, what has to be said after the initial problems that lasted for an extremely short period of time with the acquisition of Astrezanzece, the Government found a response with the help of the European Commission and in the Republic of Croatia there are and there have been enough vaccines at any time for all those who wish to be vaccinated. That's unquestionable. However, the question is at one point health literacy because simply, and we have apostrophe from the Staff at the moment when vaccination was current. It is not clear to me that people go to a doctor for each of their health problems with confidence and trust him with his health, and when it comes to vaccinations, then all sorts of anti-vaxers managed to throw away their crazy ideas about the installation of chips or some of the other elements of the vaccine will. And that's why we've really had far more mortality than we'd normally have. But let's learn something from it because we have a fall ahead of us, a question of what kind. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Vaccination saves lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117964	Replica, dear Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117965	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister Beroš. It is legitimate to talk here about healthcare itself as a complex system that requires a large number of reforms that you are working on, but to seek responsibility for you as a minister especially in the part of your responsibility for managing the covid crisis I think it is definitely deplaced and I congratulate you on all the activities and on the general mobilization of the health sector, but also all the timely purchases during the exact same covid crisis not only when the whole world stopped and we no longer functioned, but we also invested in the health system. I would like you to mention several projects specifically related to KBC Split precisely at the time of the covid crisis of digital diagnostics, of robotic surgery, of a united emergency reception of 80 million kuna, of building a clinic for pulmonary diseases and a series of projects that were only made at the KBC of Split at the time of the crisis. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117966	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117967	Thanks for asking. You forgot to point out more and count the transfusion center that's being built down there. Yes, 20 days ago we opened a new OHBP perfectly decorated, perfectly equipped that will greatly increase the quality and availability of healthcare not only for local residents, but also for tourists located in Split-Dalmatia County. It's the definition of this government, so health development, investment in health care, the development of human capacities in health care. Here's nothing to say. So, we're our one transitional solution to filling the deficits in primary health care. Just because there's not enough specialization, you really can't blame me. This is a process that should have been considered 10 or 15 years ago, and I often point out that we have demoted primary health care from human resources. However, Dr. Kekin's investments are just in place, please, if you can listen. So, during the last financial perspective, it was invested in 212 specializations in family medicine. Now the NPO is investing in 467 specialization. of the following VFO 250 [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Is it gonna be enough I don't know, but we also have a spare. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117968	The next replica honours Ursha Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117969	Thank you. Honorable ministers in the Rijeka KBC have been mobilising the cardio surgeon for years. Boris Zrnić, who has been disabled in his operations, has been isolated by petitions against him that have been conducted by the administration. Everything is presented in the media. Two completed court trials have confirmed that Dr. Zrnić is being mobilized because he is not allowed an adequate number of operations. The Council of the Municipal Court in Rijeka accepted quite a presidential proposal for the prosecution of Professor Medvedo, i.e. directly superior doctor Dr. Zrnić for the crime of mobbing. The hearing will take place in October 2022. And these are the cases that cause us to have such a large cast of doctors from Croatia. Dr. Crescent. Zrnić repeatedly spoke to the ministry and to you personally to direct the surveillance, I can personally show you these e-mails that were sent to you, you have not responded, you have done nothing. Well, I ask you, why did you leave him for mercy and mercy? mobbing and why you have further strengthened those doctors who are not lonely because of such situations [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Rijeka leaves Croatia? [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117970	Okay, so this is really not how I got that email, and I can't read it. What I don't support, I don't support mobbing. What did you say his colleague's name was Zrnić? ... I'm going to ask for a statement from the director of that facility and, depending on the location, I'm going to refer a medical inspection. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't know what it's about, but if there's an individual case of mobbing, it doesn't mean, okay, but an individual case doesn't mean that the entire health system is involved in something similar. So, but I absolutely agree with you, every single case needs to be considered, and I'll do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117971	The next replica, the esteemed Joseph Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117972	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister. Introducing, any support from your work so far and your team. We heard today and he said for the third time by an opposition colleague quite unfounded respect for you and our overall health system. If we take into account that one of the fundamental objectives of the public health system is quality and available health care, the health care of citizens, I am interested in the past two specific crisis years, is this health care, has our health system met this original requirement, has it been available to everyone at all times? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117973	Well, look, it's something to worry about. I can't tell from this place right now to confirm that she was available to everyone at all times. We have to be objective, it's probably not like that, but that's what we have to strive for. We must strive for her greater availability, but also her quality. But you said that some stories were repeated, and they really hurt me. You know, in this house, I've been called by parliamentary representatives to a criminal minister because of certain affairs that have been fabricated, which have never been elaborated in this sense, that some kind of guilt has been proven by the structure of the ministry and me. And I'll tell you next, I'll let myself end up being called back to the media that I've invited a certain representative of an IT firm and I have. I invited him to talk since he's holding up a ordering system to find a way to improve the order for cancer patients. My imperative that within a month all Oncology patients should be taken care of. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] And allow me just a second, and if a tender is called and can't be made out of the funds intended to maintain the system, of course, it will be called a public open tender via e-procurement advertisers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117974	Next replica, respected Luka Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117975	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister. Well, surely this many times mentioning the covid crisis has shown that the health system is mostly to be thanked for its efficiency to the medical staff, whom I hereby express my gratitude. I witnessed directly with the KBC, and with those people who are being gravitated by more than half a million patients, and indeed also thanks to you for always coming to the field in difficult and difficult times, you haven't managed the situation in office, and despite everything, we can say that the health system is still stable and we can see a contribution to this by one large and your surroundings. It has already been pointed out here that it is investing in specializations, that it will continue to invest in specializations especially with NGOs, so here I am interested in this context which you intend to do and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117976	Here I would like to thank you again because I am talking about Split and all the employees of KBC Split at one point were extremely burdened with covid to patients precisely for reasons of low fissure and I must say that as a ministry we were constantly available. The special problem was with sisters, mostly the intensive sisters, so at one point we took action and from the area of Continental Croatia came help to help you care for these patients. Therefore, it is more than clear that only together could we overcome the challenges of the day. And that's exactly what I'm saying is that when it comes to deficiting personnel, and it's not just doctors, but also sisters that we've had constructive talks with the Chamber of Nurses and Technicalians of Croatia where we've already called for an interview of the Ministry of Education and discussed the enrollment quotas for that mid-room because it's quite clear that we're missing them at this point. And how do you fix that? Only by negotiating higher quotas for the education of these employees. And from this place I thank my colleague and colleague very much. from the Croatian Chamber of Nurses and Technicians at the port and at joint activities. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117977	The next replica of the esteemed Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117978	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, we are certainly in the best interest of a quality and accessible health system for our fellow citizens and it is certainly hard to achieve this without quality personnel. It is certain that in this covid crisis that has been the last two years, the health system has borne the greatest burden and the people in it. We are witnessing that in the term of office of this government she paid everyone up, so she went to the health care workers as well. Please tell us how much did that pay up as a percentage? Surely that may not be enough yet, but given the crisis time we live in, it is certain that we have made the possible maximum possible, and we will probably follow that in the future. But it's also a fact that the price of health care is cheap, so I'm asking you to say something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117979	Thank you. I would agree that it is of paramount importance that the health system is primarily made up of people, a smaller part of technology because technology is used by people, and we all need to be at the disposition of Croatian patients. So, since 2017, the salary has grown about 40% on account of the increase in base on two occasions, something on account of also collective bargaining and elements from it. We have also addressed to you during our term of office the issue of overtime which has been a significant burden for the financing of the health system, and it is a pro-future for future changes in certain elements of the collective agreement to correct these things, and also what has been saddened by the encounter of Minister Marić, who was more than aware of health problems, we have solved this problem too. So I don't think there was a disagreement between us, but we worked well together, and I can only thank him in front of Croatian citizens and Croatian health systems for all these donations and donations. Croatian health system. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117980	Thank you Minister, this is what your replicas have ended with. We are now opening a debate, the first registered Club of Representatives is HDZ and the Honored Vice President of the Academy, Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117981	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I've been thinking about what to say because it seems to me that in the light of a government that is significantly more serious, more exhaustive than the proposal everything is said. And the evidence is also argued by a series of data which unfortunately the proposal is not. The proposal is superficial. As alleged arguments, the so-called so-called. cases of which not even some have anything to do with the possibility of the minister's influence. For example, events that occurred 13 years ago and so forth are mentioned. This proposal somehow seems to me like someone picked up the non-critical headlines of various portals and completely unlisted in the topic just trying to harm the minister and the government like bad children even though they know well that out of the fact they deny the minister's trust there will be nothing. We could all see today about the duality of the opposition when we heard about how the opposition suddenly praised Minister Maric, whom eight months ago asked for impeachment in this same hall, muddled him, criticised him. The crisis Croatia has recently faced and looked at Covid and seen aggression on Ukraine has further highlighted the need to strengthen the health system, but has also shown the key role of the state in preserving jobs, pensions, social benefits, in the fight against poverty, in order to establish a social security network that will ensure that no one remains on the sidelines to ensure the functioning of the health system in which this government has succeeded. Unlike my colleague Kekin, in my presentation, I will systematically comment on the suggestions made by the promoters. First of all, under number 1, the Mirel Cavid case, which is dedicated to as many as 3 pages of unfulfilled only 6 pages of the proposal. The tragic situation of a woman was so lightningly instrumentalized at a politically active level that it was incredible. We had a return of an ideological theme, a topic of abortion into public space, a topic that is not really related to this case at its very core. This case had nothing to do with the law, the law was respected. Enormous political public pressures have been made, and it is true that the patient has been granted the payment of the costs of procedures outside the Republic of Croatia since it decided on a different type of procedure not being conducted in Croatia. A completely incorrect allegation in the proposal to raise the question of trust that pregnant women, after 22 weeks of pregnancy, who meet the conditions of the competent law, are prevented from ending pregnancy after that 22 week. All citizens, and this is also referred to in this point, all citizens have the right to send state-run representations and complaints to the authorities, so Minister Beros stressed that the patient could address the ministry directly. What's in that dispute? It would be unacceptable if someone were denied that right. Under point 2, the alleged inaccessibility of termination of pregnancy at the request of a woman up to 10 weeks from conception. Proposers have repeatedly suggested that laws guaranteed rights should not be exercised in Croatia. It's an absolute lie. The service of termination of pregnancy up to 10 weeks is continuously available in Croatia according to the existing law whatever I think of it. The Ministry of Health cannot and must not affect the choice of institutions for the employment of staff of the institution, and it would be unimaginable discrimination to employ only those who do not have a conscience call. Under chapter 3 of "Medical" or "Medical" as named in this document. Public and private systems exist long in the Republic of Croatia. It is also common for HZZO to enter into contracts with private institutions in a lack of capacity in the public system and it has not started with Minister Berosa but long before. In fact, Minister Beros announced that he plans, for example, to improve the health care system in the area of treatment prevention and cancer diagnostics. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan for the period 2021 to 2026 provides for the purchase of equipment for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of cancers specifically linear accelerators and additional equipment amounting to 640 million kuna, and for the purchase of other sophisticated equipment including PETCT devices, etc. The investigation, under 4 USKOK investigations related to business with Cuspis d.o.o. The company has been active in health information since 2004, so long before the arrival of Minister Beros, each insinuation is absolutely unfounded. The procurement of services was carried out in a transparent manner in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, and the opinion of the competent state authorities confirmed that there was no illegality. The alleged case of Corusic. It is clear that the Ministry of Health and the minister are not in charge of reviewing the media allegations from the private life of Prof. Ćorušića, 2009 for which he has never been convicted by power or power, but I think it's a shame to even mention it in this document. Prof. Ćorušić has been knowingly and responsibly acting his duty at the head of KBC Zagreb and, in fact, he is the successful director of KBC, the first to build and restore KBC Zagreb more significantly in the last 10 years. As for his performances on television when he was talking about the 2014 patient case. There are bodies dealing with this, it will give its word and the opinion will be delivered to the minister. Rejuvenation of someone’s book and judgment without judgment are the traits of some other times, those who are obviously fond of the applicants of this proposal. The sixth point is pandemic. Since the opposition, of course, was unsuccessful and tried last year to challenge the confidence of Minister Beros, it is essential to repeat the Croatian government's contribution to the fight against the pandemic. Croatia has never, despite the seriousness of the situation, experienced a health system collapse such as in rich northern Italy when there were not enough respirators for all patients or, for example, in Slovakia when patients had to be transported to other countries for treatment. In time, the government provided enough vaccines for all Croatian citizens. The fact is that we have a smaller population split than most EU countries, but the government has never considered introducing mandatory vaccinations such as Austria has already allowed individuals to decide what they think is best for them. Sadly, far too many listened to anti-vaxers, including some MPs sitting in this assembly. Chapter seven on allegedly suspicious transplants to KBC Zagreb. All transplants shall be granted to recipients in a completely transparent manner from the national waiting lists via the Eurotransplant Allocation Information System. Due to the sensitivity of the procedure, any public entry, in particular with a lack of information or with incorrect information, is highly harmful to both the donor itself and the recipient, and in particular to the National Transplant Programme, which is one of the best in the world, according to the objective assessment of international institutions. I note, by the way, that the health inspection that carried out its reconnaissances did not at all suspect the sale of organs as it is sometimes stated. And finally eight, health reform, it seems to me there's no need to talk about it, there's been a lot of talk about it so far, so I don't need to talk about it. On the emphasis of reform, on prevention, on family medicine, there were also speeches, and it is clear that all the grounds have been prepared to start working on legislation already at the end of this year, and some of the smaller parts of me to say so have already been achieved because the reform and is not something that starts certain days and then takes place until a certain day, it is for anyone who knows the system or any system to be clear because the reform of any system is not implemented in such a way as to declare that this and that date that the reform has started and then promises that until that date and that the reform will end and that universal prosperity, honey and milk will prevail, whoever thinks it knows the organisation, not the health system, but no major system in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117982	Next is the debate on behalf of the promoter of the respected Peje Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117983	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here I have lived to this day in the belief that when you want to implement a certain reform, change or anything else, you define what you want to do, so what are your goals, but also what are the deadlines in which these goals will be achieved. Why? In order to be able to verify whether you're doing what you promised, but from a respected academic we've heard now that you're doing it another way, in a way that you don't know what your goals are, that you don't know when you want to spend them, who you're going to do them with, and ultimately what their results will be. Thank you for this, Mr. Reiner, for making a huge contribution to governance not only in Croatia, but back to the health system. Croatian doctors are excellent, this shows a number of their results, this shows amazing operations that they once perform under impossible conditions. The Croatian healthcare system is no longer such today, a health system that has been a model for years of success, by quality, by availability, is no longer available. One of the reasons he is sitting here in this hall, however it would be very irresponsible, and even rude to say that he is the only reason why not, numerous, not all, but many of his predecessors at the health minister's chair have proved completely unworthy and unable to behave this responsible duty. In this, Minister Beroš is a very worthy successor to Kujundzic, Hebrang, the unfortunate Nakic, who, by their actions, has ruined Croatian health and is therefore our legitimate obligation to speak about it. We tried as parliamentary deputies not to call off, we wanted the debate on Croatian health at the Health Committee, but you distinguished colleagues and colleagues of HDZ representatives refused to do so without a single word of argument as to why you did so. And the reasons why we're looking for Berosh's recall are well known and I'll only list some of them because in this short time I don't get everything, public procurement, an interoperable radiation device costs 4 billion kuna, a public health system of 9 billion kunas without VAT. The difference of nearly 6 billion kuna, with VAT between the price paid by private health care and the one paid by public health care. Cuspis, a flower girl just some of the affairs. Health losses, these aren't my words and my numbers. The amount of $400m to 500m was cited by the deputy prime minister, Finance Minister monthly. And you know what's worst of all, what we told you during this year's budget debate, that you lack that money in your budget. You took your hand off. In the rebalancing of the first and probably the rebalancing of the second, you'll have to cover the losses that arise. Sometimes I wonder if maybe that's why Mr. Maric had enough and why he made the decision yesterday to leave because he sees things that don't work don't work and they don't want to change. What is the reality of Croatian health care? Your predecessor Nekic abolished the pardon Nakic has abolished a series of preventive programs, 6.5 years have passed since then they are not introduced to them only talking, waiting lists are growing. In Croatia, it dies of diseases that are treatable, citizens do not have adequate health care. The case of Cavida is just one of many similar cases, six hospitals in Croatia do not provide a service of termination of pregnancy, does not provide. It's what the minister puts his hand on. On the other hand, suspicious public procurement, losses accumulate, as well as debts that the state needs to continuously settle. And how do you want to handle it? By nationalising hospitals and by announcing systematic examinations for all citizens, you have not explained until today who will conduct these systematic checks because the Croatian public health system simply has no capacity for this. And we're supposed to keep our mouths shut? No, gentlemen, we have to react to this and we need to talk about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117984	We have a few replicas. Sandra Bencic is the first to be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117985	Thank you. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms I have two questions concerning the real responsibility of the state both. If we are guaranteed the law of abortion,... Okay, here I'm asking you as a fellow lawyer, if we have a legal right to abortion and if every health care institution prescribed by law has to have an abortion service, if it does not provide it as well as those six hospitals, and there were times when nine of them are not provided, whether these patients have the right to compensation, given that the state has not provided for the implementation of its positive obligations because there is not only a negative obligation to ban abortion, but it is a positive obligation that what is prescribed by law is indeed achieved because I am interested in who is going to compensate all these women who go across the border into Slovenia for travel expenses. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And the cost of the price difference? [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117986	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117987	The right to appeal to the conscience that has been introduced and which exists in a number of international acts is the right of an individual, not the right of a state or the right of an institution. If we have a public health system and in this public health system, hospitals that are founded by public authorities, then they must ensure that the law is implemented. Where this is not the case, when the responsibility for the implementation of a single act of the State cannot be ensured, then for the adverse consequences of such conduct shall be ensured by the responsible State. I am also interested in whether disputes will begin, I expect this, will probably happen in which Croatia will lose and, as in many other situations, it must pay compensation for damages here for women whose health care is not provided for such damages.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117988	Next replica, the esteemed Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117989	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, I am pleased that you, as president of the SDP, are the way you formed it in your term of office, are trying to reach out to an excellent minister, an excellent government, replicate something you don't understand yourself and what it is in your time since you took over the SDP of this small version of disorder you do and not dignity. I'm sure it suits us to be the eternal president of the SDP because everyone thought that after Bernardic it couldn't be worse for the SDP, but by coming to you, it's terrible. Are you uncomfortable with what Ivica Racan the deceased fought for a true social democracy, for a quality SDP, for a good opposition to HDZ that today you can't be, but this group of you from We can and from you creates a group of adults, unsettled and you don't know what you want? Why don't you resign, and this isn't how you figure it out? [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117990	Mr. Deur, I apologize. You must give me your word. Thank you. Mr. Deur, you take care of your party, the verdicts it receives, the crime and corruption that is happening in it, and allow other political parties to run their own policy, which ultimately will be decided by the voters. However, when you talk about the health system then let's talk about the data, and the data for the quality of the health system would not believe there are and there is something called the Euro health consumer index, 2015. Croatian healthcare was 16th in Europe, e.g. In front of Spain, Ireland and Italy. In the latest pre-pandemic report, it fell to 24th place behind Spain, Ireland and Italy, but therefore to Macedonia and Montenegro. This is the reality that we have established in Croatia, but those in Europe who are dealing with it, and what will be the results after the pandemic, I am afraid to think.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117991	Next replica, and pardon the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117992	Article 238, Your Honor, I don't care, you're trying to lead on something that you're not really leading, but you're doing the truth and one with a lot of lies and a lie and a lie you're trying to figure out something that isn't true. That's very ugly. I'm just saying that I'm sorry that you're a good, quality party, which was a good opposition that Ivica Racan truly fought for that you're destroying, no matter what the HDZ does, because surely while you and Mirela are running the main word, that's certainly what's what it is. Gives strength [[Intruder: Time.]] others, and SDP destroys [[Intruder: Time.]] So you see what you have brought your club to, so you don't have to take me. [[Intruder: Time.]] if I'm to take care of you, your members are to take care of you... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117993	You use this as a replica, you get a warning. The next replica honours Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117994	Thank you. She would ask the chairman to remind his colleague Deura not to address the representatives with their first nameless name as he has now done with counterpart Ahmetovic. So we can't speak by the name of Mirela, he runs the party. What I wanted to ask you is, maybe we could have done it in some past periods, so I'd say a little bit better to solve the issue of abortion or the right to a conscience in 2003 when that right was introduced, maybe it could have been introduced along some fences by looking at what we still have on the ground today. But how we are actually talking about the return of abortions to the Constitution or how this will reflect on all the following cases because we often hear that the abortion of the Constitution is being introduced until the right to abortion is compromised. But in fact, on the ground, we have a threatened right to abortion by calling our conscience 70% of the gynecologists have a conscience call, so we have no right to do that. an abortion secured. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117995	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117996	In Croatia, one perfidan is in place, but I must use the word, a perfidious attempt unfortunately quite successful that what is nominally required by the laws and decisions of the Constitutional Court should be secured and killed safely under the table. And like many other things the HDZ in Croatia does and for this there is no courage to come to the assembly and present what it proposes, stand behind it and explain why it does it rather than do things under the table. Because when things happen that way under the table, then we have to react, we have to say a lot and ensure that certain rights that women in Croatia have continue to exercise. And what better act to protect human rights, to protect the rights of the women of this country than to imprison it, enter, secure through the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117997	Followed by the replica of the respected Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117998	Thank you very much. In fact, the correction, a colleague named Grbin said that a machine should pay nine billion kuna, that it cost four, and that the difference is five, there's no machine from a fellow coat of arms who's paid five billion kunas that no one can do that. All these Rafaels cost 1.1 billion euros or 8 billion kuna. It's like when my colleague Selak Rasdic said that a fall, an atomic bomb, was dropped, was not an atomic bomb. But you've super-explained the public legal status of hospitals that are obliged to hire personnel to create among other space operations. And it's very clear for 5 hospitals or 6 addictions to the source, Našice, Požega, Vinkovci, Virovitica, some say Knin, yes, no, and the sixth is the Holy Spirit. And this is me Eurohealth this factual state they've therefore retrograded for the last two years and it's really a shame that at 16 we fell to 24 places. Just about those billions that, you know, people know how much the machine costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u117999	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118000	I thank you, if I said a billion then it was, it was a lapus, so now I'm going to take the opportunity to say the exact numbers. So, the interoperable radiation device is a privateer who bought it in Croatia paid about 4 million kuna plus VAT. At the same time, it was paid by about 9 million kuna plus VAT, which makes a difference of around 5 million kuna. So the device that can be obtained on the market for 4 million kuna, the state, the ministry paid 5 million kuna more. Now, as Cvorovic would say, the operator can make a mistake once, but he can't make it 100 times.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118001	The next replica, respected Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118002	A respected colleague of the coat of arms would act politically if some of the MPs here were present, then I'd ask you a little bit if you were to talk to me about a legally convicted criminal organization and their members. If I were to behave inappropriately as here, some present representatives, such as my colleague Deur, of course I would have thought of him and just before, I would have found the number of my colleague Deura's phone and sent him at an inappropriate time of message, as he did to me. But I'll be reasoned. The public hospital sector is unsustainable. In 2021, public hospitals recorded 700 million kuna, a total obligation of 12 billion kuna, made commitments on 31.12.'21. 4 billion kuna, recovery from the state budget from 2017 to 2021 Nine billion kuna. In the first rebalancing, we shoot an additional 3.5 billion kuna of recovery, and there's still more to go. 3 billion kunas unproduced [[Intruder: Time.]] in the budget, reforms nowhere, and the minister [[Intruder: Answer.]] The maric who was angry... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118003	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118004	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yes, in 2015, we had a tendency to reduce the debt of public health care hospitals, which was the consequence of, among other things, careful treatment of funds that were available to public health and the process of recovery, which was initiated, however, in 2016. The HDZ government interrupts the process of recovery and unsanitary hospitals returns their founders to the counties. Today, the prime minister here, today Plenkovic is talking about how the county hospitals generate an additional debt, so of course when you have unnatural limits that don't match life at all and when you have unsanitary hospitals that you've returned to those founders, you've interrupted the recovery process and now you're surprised that the debts are growing again. , well, that's the logical consequence of HDZ's management of the health system. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118005	Next replica, the esteemed Krunoslav Katičić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118006	The Honorable Chairman and esteemed colleague of the Grbin, so here I listened carefully to your presentation, so I didn't get any new arguments, so it's kind of a little fascination that for the third time we're looking for the recall of the Minister of Health, Mr. Beros, and not based on some of these unargumented thesis, and even using one difficult case, I mean the difficult family case of the Cavida family, so for one let's say perhaps the populist activism as it certainly is in my opinion is. So my question, or the replica, is going in this direction, as my colleague Deur pointed out, that the party that you belong to is so unargumented and such arguments and unargumented proposals support and even defend them with these, and then I see no motivation for such a thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118007	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118008	Dear colleague, we tried to talk to the Health Committee, you refused. We will not allow such a difficult situation as today in Croatian health without hearing, talking and pointing to the problem in HS. This is where we should talk about it. And I find it interesting to say that the data I presented was unargumented. One of the data is a quote from the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, even though another day, Mr. Maric himself presented the information about 400 to 500 million kuna of losses generated monthly in the health system as you did last year, and you did nothing to reform the health system, but listening to what the reforms according to the Reiner Academy clearly mean that no reforms in Croatia can happen because all of what we thought were clearly not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118009	The last replica of the esteemed Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118010	Here, my dear colleague, you reminded me when you mentioned in your presentation of now former Minister Maric and he was always saying the same thing, it's enough in those videos from the Health Committee that we are always at the budget, the budget rebalance, so we always had the opinion of the commission, remember, for the fiscal policy that he was always talking about, here's a colleague from the ruling majority of colleagues Peric, so she always signed the findings that spoke when the more reforms in health would be eaten, until today's reforms we haven't seen. Here's how you just said health care is actually a black hole in which somehow constantly these budget rebalances we're putting billions and billions into the state budget, and in the end services to patients aren't better or I'd say nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118011	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118012	Thank you for that replica. This information that I've brought out of... is the best indicator of that. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In several years, there has been an increase in the isolation for healthcare, while at the same time the quality of the health system has dropped, there is no drop in the quality of individual doctors, no, never, nurses, technicians, no, to the quality of the health system, and the reason is organisational. What is yet to be determined is whether this lack is the consequence of the desire for the system not to be organised so that it could continue to hunt in a cloudy il is due to extreme incompetence or a combination of these two factors because the amount that is allocated annually is not increased by several billion kunas, and that debts are generated, and that the quality is falling, does not go either incompetence or desire to do damage or both, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118013	Next is a debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, respected MPs Miletic and Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118014	Dear Vice President HS Mr. Sanader, Mr. Minister, respected by the ruling and respected colleagues of the opposition. First, Minister Beroš, to be perfectly clear, what I as Marin Miletić want for you to happen to me, do I make myself clear? So I am a Christian, in politics I respect the liberal democracy that I believe and as a Christian in politics I fight for my ideals, I live and testify for them, and in the end we are in elections. I will criticise your actions, what you do and the way you do it. Secondly, please ask the prime minister, unfortunately he left you, but tell him your colleagues by ruling, I sent him a parliamentary question on May 31st, he did not answer me, the deadline passed, whether the Republic signed any protocol, contract or any other legal act with the World Health Organization that would in any way oblige the Republic, the prime minister did not respond, the Croatian people asked, and I asked him on behalf of the Croatian people, so I ask him to answer me. Minister Beros, we still have no record of how much we pay for the vaccine and other medical supplies. Why? If someone is in the truth and has nothing to hide, so what to fear, the public, so get everyone out, shake everyone out. The headquarters led to the spending of billions, so we throw in the garbage and the products of Pfizer and the rest of them. Minister Beroš imagine that someone is the head of the company and now he sees that some product is not going, and then he orders millions and millions of the same product. If I'm not mistaken for seven million by the end of the year. So the people sent you a clear message, and we see it's not going. So that's taxpayer money. Why didn't you get to know the public about the stockholders' pool? I'm sure you have these, these are official documents where their... Minister, their boss said they had information before they got over it, but people with immunity might not need vaccination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the man said it. Why doesn't the public know that? Why didn't you become more clear about protecting young people? We have about 800,000 young people up to 20 years old, and 12 young people died from covids towards HZJZ. So that's around, that's exactly 0.001%. That they were all exposed to the virus, and only half infected, and we know that this data is certainly greater mortality for young people up to 20 years is 0.003%. Let them pay for these and scream for scarecrows, but that's true. So the scarecrows and those anointed by the interest groups are very loud. Ministers, you must fight for our youngsters and keep them away from unnecessary vaccinations. Today the information came out that you may not have succeeded, because you've been here with us all day. Denmark has suspended the vaccination of children. It's today you freshly posted on Twitter. So, since most of the vaccinated children had multiple infections and Denmark said they should not have started the vaccination of young people. Who will take responsibility for a number of side effects? In this frenzy of the Minister of Rijeka last week, four days have not worked both oncology machines, four days have not worked. So, okay. They fixed them. But some patients are waiting, we know very well, these are the most difficult patients, and you are announcing some mandatory systematic examinations. What's that for? The left constantly states the high mortality of the covid. Mortality has more causes. We are an old nation and others, the most powerful nation in Europe. Why don't we invest more substantial resources and programs here, so in recreation, in sports, in preventive programs. They keep it quiet. Ministers, we also had a deadly wave in hospitals, let's admit it for a covid certificate because, well, the ministers were passing the human covid certificate, and the vaccinated were passing the virus. Please explain to us the same thing you'll have a chance to do. In Portugal until 15 days ago, mortality was 10 to 15 times higher than with us 15 days ago, and they vaccinated 95% of the people. It's official data. 65% with a booster. Well, how about with them like that and with us like this? It's an illusion that masks protect. The aggressive pawning of the vaccination of everything that walks, the Corona profiteers, hiding the data led to a complete decline of confidence in the whole story. I'll commend you too so you don't think we're just hitting the Mosts. Thank you for not succumbing to the scarecrows, introducing new closures and hiding in the basements, which was the part of the left in the Croatian Parliament in particular WE CAN. Today their "green" in the German parliament is the same ministers of the latest, be careful calling on the strict lockdown. Well, that's complete, so these geniuses have completely lost, so with common sense, everything. And in the end, I quote Dr. Mladen Smoljanović, a Split epidemiologist, former head of the Split Institute of Public Health, said yesterday: "No protective measures should be applied in Croatia. You should simply let the omicron virus fill what it initially announced. Natural during the epidemic process, self-regulatory will doze itself. It should stop counting and publish the number of infected," the epidemiologist said.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118015	Oh, my God, Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118016	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I will not waste my time on what is badly done because it has been said several times. I'll talk about what would give citizens better health care for years waiting and standing in a drawer. And at this point I can only ask when? When the citizens of Croatia will get a chance for better healthcare, because they have the right to do so. They pay from their wages to the Ministry of Health, from their work. They have the right to medication, to treatment. Let's remember a situation where the debts of wholesale drugs deprive the drugs. That wasn't so long ago. What exactly has changed since then? Nothing. Debts are growing again. Has the system of joint procurement improved? It's not. Has the payment system been established according to the outcomes of the treatment? It's not. Has the policy of determining the price of medicines and the conditions of payment changed? It's not. Has there been a rationalization of the business of the entire health system? It's not. That's why we can expect the same situation again and again the threats and the denial of drugs. Have the preventive programs been strengthened? How many lives could it save so far? How much cheaper is it to prevent it than to treat it? Is the emergency helicopter service in place? Soon we'll be the only country in Europe that doesn't have her. As much or as bad as it takes to realize it's necessary. Why is this all important? In addition to a number of other things, 50 and some of the reasons we've given instructions that you personally said everyone was standing and the moment you took office said you'd do it, and 95% wasn't done. Why does this matter? Because the current health system does not function much less than the citizens pay for it. Money leaks, every little bit no money for drugs, budget gaps increase, waiting lists for specialist reviews are still long. People still have to go for a private examination to begin treatment in time. Compared to the European Union, we are told about cancer mortality, diabetes, strokes, heart attacks and other metabolic diseases. Our life span is shorter than in the EU on average. Reforms and reforms are listed, a number of messages are being sent that this will all change. But we haven't heard anything from the proposal on how it's going to be done. And I honestly doubt the seriousness of my intention. I will only take one example of the Health Care Act adopted in 2019. Here is promised to change 41 regulations immediately. None of the 41 regulations has been amended since 2019. None, and they regulate how the Health Protection Act will be implemented. It's a basic document. The solutions we've seen, which have been offered, are that, hello, but very bad. Both to patients and to medical personnel. As far as patients are concerned, which is the story that doctors become cops for their patients, that they report to the police. Where did the doctor's secret, doctor's and patient's relationship go? As far as medical personnel are concerned, it is suggested that family medical doctors should cover emergency care. Okay. Who's gonna cover family medicine? Either second, or second proposal for hospital doctors to cover in primary health care. Great. Then who will cover the family, or hospitally? The centralisation of the system is proposed, the state of general hospitals, and the state as the owner produced the biggest debts. A ban on double work is proposed to the chiefs of the clinic. Great. Why not use digital tools that are available to measure how much who works? Or strike the punishment of all, and yet they do not work; it comes to you in the same way, even worse, those who do, they are crouched. And available digital tools to measure and separate workers from non-professional workers in hospitals. It doesn't matter who the minister is, it doesn't matter whether you raise Mr. Berosch's thumb up or down because as long as you name people like this with a missed one. With health policy, it doesn't matter who the minister is. [[Intruder: Time.]] The problem is with people Who remains all this while they deserve health because they pay him out of their pocket. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118017	Time. On behalf of the promoter, revered Katarina Peović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118018	Good afternoon. I'm going to defend a proposal that I didn't write, but I'm going to look back on what was said, you know what my colleague Reiner told us here, so just, I don't know if you listened well, he said, the abortion after 22 weeks of pregnancy isn't inaccessible, we offered Mirelli Chawidi another procedure. So if you don't have the procedure you need, we have another procedure. The abortion by week 10 is also not inaccessible, no, so he's performing, says Reiner, regardless of what I thought about it. 70% of gynecologists have so-called gynecologists. The appeal of conscience. In what way is it then, 75,... Yeah, I thought you said 75, that would be more convincing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 55, I don't know, so unfortunately that's the same question you might be able to answer. It's fascinating that we don't have that information. I was actually surprised when I read your statement in the media that you would now collect that data, now you say 55%, so journalists and journalists came up with the fact that it's somewhere between 60% and 70%, but we even put aside what the percentage is, but it's unacceptable that we don't have that information. We've got him now, but he should've gone through such a really dramatic case that he invited all the people into the street to get us information without which we can't. We can't say whether an abortion is available or not if we don't have the basics of how many gynecologists in the public health system refuse to make an abortion, right? I mean, we can't talk about availability, so let's make it 55%, as you say, and the press says it's 60, 70%, that's unacceptable. Then says counterpart Reiner, Medikol, it is to me, I must admit the most fascinating means, the story, and I think that we would, therefore, totally mean that we may have naively signed that intervention for the recall of Minister Beros, perhaps Minister Beros is not really a problem in itself, the problem is the system, etc., but only that we read this response from the Government. That's unacceptable. So here's where my colleague Reiner gave us the exact answer. So we have a situation where outsourced services in a way that in the last 14 years a billion kuna has been paid to a private company to do things that need to be done in the public health system, through a public health system we could then take for that money, buy a device that would do that diagnostic for cancer patients and now you have an answer, so, fellow Reiner says, and that's about what the government said, in lack of capacity. I don't have to go any further, do I? In the absence of capacity, public health and HZZO have the right to contract with private hospitals. He's got no right. He's got no right. These are the money we had to invest in public health to have devices for this diagnostic, no.../incomprehensible/... there is absolutely no rational explanation why you give private hospitals money, why? I mean, she doesn't have the capacity, but you've given a billion kunas over the last 14 years, so that's quite enough to buy that machine, a few of them. So it's purely argumentative, so logically it doesn't stand, and not to say that it can't be one way or another, so clearly health needs to perform its function, it can't be in lack of capacity. There's got to be capacity. I mean, it's a public health function. But it's so in all possible segments. So, watch what happens now. So now perhaps as a consequence of this dramatic case of Mirala Cavide, there may be some rules in these public hospitals that there must be some way to ensure public health services of abortion on demand. But it's completely unacceptable the way it's being suggested here that it's going to be done, and it's exorcising. So we'll be hiring in the public hospital system those doctors who have an objection to their conscience, and then we'll outsour them from private. Well, good for you. I mean, what makes us here and we've joined this initiative to warn that it's not an abortion, like some other things, they haven't become unreachable because of some ultraconservative revolution, under quotes, is that, without further ado, we've been following them since the 1990s here and I have to admit that another thing that my colleague Reiner says to me, it's kind of another time dark. Even though we had these dark times so women had the right to abortion at the time. But it's unacceptable, so what's happening is commercialization and privatisation of the system, and that's why we're coming to What's most important, throw in the constitution. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118019	The replica of Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118020	My colleague Peovic, and it may not be an accident that in the last 14 years, a billion kuna has been paid to Medikol, although for 60 million kuna, four such devices could be paid in the public health system. The last device was purchased during the SDP government when Minister Rajko Ostojic was. Just as it may not be by chance that such and so many waiting lists in the public system are deliberately generated in order to actually implement a crawling privatisation of health care where the public system does not have resources, and on the other hand, it is quite responsible for filling private pockets. Just as with abortion, we have a situation where we have one condition on paper, and on the other hand we have a crawling clerical revolution that actually makes it impossible in the secular state to provide legal services that women need because, among other things, they pay and insurance, and that service should be legally guaranteed and available to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118021	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118022	Thank you. So every year, public health signs with hospitals about 150 million kunas of contracts, and that justice with that one doesn't have enough capacity. At the same time, the RF is much more radical in its solutions, but we think that this is the only way to solve this problem, we have a double practice, so a double practice is that the doctor works both in public health and works in private health, which not only leads to those problems of corrupt practices that actually send patients into private practice but also patients from private practice are being extended to a public hospital in a public health institution. But the solutions to how to get rid of it, means what the minister is offering, which is also brave to understand, even what you suggested to the ministers, and not only to the directors of the clinics, but also to the head of the clinic, and that came across a lobby reaction, but even if that went away, it wouldn't solve the problem. Need [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Double Practice Cancelled [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118023	The next replica honours Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118024	Dear MPs, one of the reasons for this instigation of the issue of trust on Minister Beros is the poor conduct of the pandemic crisis. This is where Minister Beroš said, that I should just look at it written not to make a mistake, so I quote "thanks to the government at all times there were enough vaccines for everyone who wanted to be vaccinated", and Mr Reiner said "the government has provided enough vaccines in time for all patients". Well, I really don't understand why the Minister of Finance, in the perspective of Marko Primorac and his property, would then have been taking such an overage to be vaccinated, if it was just in time for enough vaccines to be provided? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118025	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118026	Well, of course not, we all remember that there was a shortage of vaccines, but what's really criminal is that somewhere here it suggests or simulates one type of struggle between those who are anti-vaxers and HDZ, means where there's actually no focus at all on the fact that in some indirect informal way, through the HDZ government in principle, there was a complete liberalisation in which people were not at all careful to protect themselves, and that's why we came to these figures. And we have to admit that I'm even a little surprised by the minister's interpretation of those figures, I'd like to explain it to us because it doesn't seem to be standing, we just have a non-nineth mortality or we're somewhere in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118027	The next replica of the esteemed Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118028	Dear colleagues, I see that you are prone to these methods of forced vaccination because you believe that even the HDZ government has been too liberal about the vaccination of citizens. I guess you'd have us inoculated, maybe you'd have us in front of the wall and then vaccinate us like in some dark times. But what I'm interested in is debts to large-scale drugs. The General Hospital of Dubrovnik therefore rebalances the budget of the county's 310 million kuna, six years ago when the forced administration and the hospital returned to the county was about 80 million kuna. So, how about that? Do you have any kind of solution? What does the RF say about how to settle these debts to large-scale drugs?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118029	And you're inclined because you started what I'm inclined to do, manipulation. In front of the wall and the hand thing, well, I mean, it's super real how you're prone. And the other thing is, I'm so glad you asked this question to a long hospital. You do not have a solution to this, you are populistly declaring solutions that are not solutions and you will again be in coalition with HDZ first chance compared to us. And we have solutions because the health debt can't actually be solved by constant perpetuation of the problem. Because look, it seems to us that our debt is growing, so we're buying drugs, the drugs have to be bought, and then we're generating debt. No, I don't. So the Immunology Institute has been producing drugs that have been cheaper several times, we can't reduce the debt this way, we need to stimulate the pharmaceutical industry domestically. That's what Maric said when the crown started, I thought he was enlightened, but unfortunately [[Santer Invader: Time.]] None of that after a few years. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118030	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Nicole Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118031	He's been injured. In 238, through the overall debate of the extreme left today, it is quite clear that you are in a coalition with HDZ and that you are their more extreme little partner who is demanding forced vaccination for everyone, strict measures that we, like those who advocate personal freedom, oppose.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118032	This was your replica. You're getting a warning. Next up is the club of IDS MPs, respected Katarina Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118033	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The IDS representative club supports the impeachment of Minister Beros for a number of reasons already mentioned, from the absence of effective health reform to a series of affairs in the sector, but also because of a specific specific problem which we from the IDS have warned on a number of occasions, we have appealed for its solution in many instances, as well as for this parliamentary speaker, but unfortunately all without results. It is a problem of great, in some cases and literally of vital importance for the residents of the good part of Istria, especially its northwestern part, etc. Bujština, an area covering 3 cities and 3 municipalities in the northwestern Istrian peninsula. It is an area, namely, physically, or traffically close to the general hospital in Slovenia's Isola than the General Hospital in Pula or KBC in Rijeka. In particular, the average time elapsed from the call of patients from the northwestern Istria to their care and arrival to Izola General Hospital is 70 minutes, while the transport and care to the KBC of Rijeka is on average looking for 120 minutes, and to the General Hospital in Pula 110 minutes. For this reason, a pilot project was launched in 2019 under the EU Interreg Slovenija-Croatia programme in which the main partners were the Institute of Emergency Medicine of the Istrian County and Isola General Hospital, and the project was then established, unfortunately only the temporary transport protocol and timely care of life-threatening patients from northwestern Istria to Izola General Hospital. The results of this project were measured in saved human lives and prevented disability, and this collaboration also meant significantly less personnel burden of the Istrian Emergency Medicine Institute and savings of about 600 thousand kuna per year due to short time, the absence of medical teams that take about 4 hours for intervention and journey to Rijeka and back, while intervention and travel to Isola are most often solved in time of about half an hour. The cost of treatment under the project was borne by the Istrian County, since unfortunately its request for the costs for Croatian citizens to be borne by the HZZO which the possibility simply refused. Understanding the important project was not unfortunately either by the competent ministry. I will remind cocoa by then Minister Kujundzic almost so literally prescribed protocols drawn up by doctors from Istria County and their colleagues from Izola and applied them to establish the cooperation between Metkovic and Mostar, while the costs of providing emergency patients from Istria in Izola through the EU remained in Istria County. However, the project was eventually brought to an end, and in order to prevent the residents of northwestern Istria from finding themselves in an unfavourable position again, so as not to burn on the time-consistent hospital care of life-threatening patients, with worse outcomes of treatment and unnecessary deaths, the Istrian County has launched an initiative to conclude a bilateral health cooperation agreement between the Republic of Slovenia to create a network of cross-border health care, and all with the aim of saving the lives of a number of Istrian citizens, as well as potentially, many tourists staying here for a significant part of the year. However, despite numerous efforts, despite meetings and talks by the representatives of the Istrian County and us, IDS MPs with Minister Beroša and the leaders of the HZZO, despite positive announcements and promises from the Ministry, and also from Prime Minister Plenkovic himself, the initiative unfortunately did not run into fertile soil, and government support, the Ministry of Health and HZZO unfortunately fell completely behind. The citizens of Istria and our numerous summer guests were left behind once again, and the lives of Istrians proved to be less valuable compared to other parts of Croatia. As a result, this time also planted Istria County, which eventually took over the costs of providing emergency medical services from northwestern Istria to a hospital in Izola. But the question, how long will the county have financial powers and resources for that? It is also indicative of one of the answers of Minister Beros to my parliamentary question on this subject, which, among other things, was said that the initiative to conclude a bilateral agreement on cross-border health cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia, I quote, relates to the border area of the northwestern part of Istria County, i.e. a small part of the border area of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore does not constitute a systematic approach to addressing patient care, end of the quote. I wonder what is the limit between a small part and a large part of Croatia when it comes to saving people's lives. How large this area must be for Minister Beros and his Ministry, but also for the government as a whole, and also for HZZO gentlemen to be able to support and help legitimately and in practice already present an initiative that saves people's lives. This relationship between the competent ministry and Minister Beros towards the people of Istria is considered discriminatory and inadmissible, so that the IDS Club's position is also autumn, Minister Beros must leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118034	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Maja Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118035	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, with the first part of those statistics, I agree, but with the second part, you are misinformed or you or want to deliberately inform other people wrongly. So Izola does not provide all services that are expected from a serious house to a care center. Such patients can't go just some from 7 to 3, as Isola can provide... You know that very well, and it's countless times consistent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can't. Take the children, I can't take the polytraum, so please misinformation. [[Intruder: Time.]] People. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118036	This was your replica. You're getting a warning. On behalf of the government, Honorable Minister Willy Beros, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118037	I didn't mean to report it, but the topic is extremely important, especially when it's said in the context of our concern for the people of Istria. It is a complete inaccuracy and I ask you to correct it, so you have well concluded that President Plenkovic has promised it. Personally, I did a few weeks ago on a regular... The meeting in Luxembourg spoke with the new State Secretary at the Ministry of Health of Slovenia as you know with them the ruling set was all agreed on ratification of the agreement our two insurance national houses agreed and the agreement was in order for the signing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The change in authority I personally asked her to meet the new minister with the problem, that this is equally important for our citizens and their tourists. She promised she'd do it. We can check together where it's all expensive. There he is, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118038	If you have a replica, please remain, dear Katarina Nemet, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118039	Here I thank the Ministers for your reply and can only express my hope that the real problem that has long existed in the area of Vijština will be solved because you know that the Istrian County has taken over all the costs right now and I think it is time for the ministry to do its part of the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118040	Well, I agree with you, but there are still those problems that Mrs. Parliamentarian stated, which is that Izola does not provide a complete service and is still very controversial precisely in the context of health care, which we say in a polytraumatic patient cannot assess whether it is a matter of... about the cerebral injury and the referral of such a patient, and the external signs do not have to point to that in Isola where there is no neurosurgery, so what's important is to define everything well, agree, but please, please, this government really takes care of the population of Istria and there is no problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118041	Next replica, the esteemed Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118042	And she was even more concerned about Milanovic's government because then the hospital began to be built in Pula, so all that Milanovic's government did for Istrian health is something that no one has ever done. But the same colleague Nemet must understand that Croatia has such a geographical location the hospital is built with a centre in the centre, therefore Izola, Knin, Slavonski Brod, provoke or now switch to Kujundzic and in some way the lack, lack of initiative for Zagvozd or for Metkovic simply does not stand. My colleague and citizens from Zagvozd and Imotski and Metkovic need a hospital like you do. You're a richer county, richer, you've got a hospital from the SDP government, the HDZ government has made in 100% as SDPs suffer a little more, and in the meantime you can do something for these INTERREG through Border Health projects while barbating this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118043	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118044	Article 238, I would only like to correct my colleague Ostojić, we are not, or the citizens of Istria received nothing but paid it and earned it with their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118045	Okay, you're getting a warning because this was your replica. Here's the Minister's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118046	I'm not going to add anything. I think that everything that's been said is really well founded, but I'll say the next one. In the context of strengthening primary health care and health care homes mainly in Makarska, I think it is necessary to return to stationary settings. They're not hospitals because building a new additional number of hospitals wouldn't be possible. In fact, the European Commissioner for Health when I told our population how many hospitals remained in wonder, so twice as much as necessary. However, we need to adapt to this and I think it is the return of the stationers but who will have personnel support in such areas that are far from larger centres and mainly in the context of the tourist season when population increases there, I think it is precisely in the new amendments to the law that is one of the directions for strengthening primary health care. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118047	Thank you, Minister. On behalf of the promoter, respectable Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118048	I thank the chairman. I would like to say first that the way HDZ defends Minister Beroša is really embarrassing and that I am in his place after this Votabautism and the fact that you did not know how to say any normal in his defence I would indeed take the example of Minister Maric in his place. And now I'm a little bit clearer as to why Maric left. However, the departure of Maric and the way you present your argument here today as your minister shows your prime minister's weakness. And your prime minister's weakness is most visible on a key health issue that we are discussing here today, and that is his inability to reach a consensus within the party that his voters have, which your voters have on abortion issues. So it's amazing how much in 2018 when he succeeded in obtaining a consensus for the Istanbul Convention until today 2022, Prime Minister Plenkovic weakened in his own party that he could not have a consensus on the issue that 2/3 of his voters have a consensus. And to point out that his voters will come to a referendum that we, as an opposition, will launch, for example, and round up what is the opposition initiative. That shows his weakness. So what's one of the so-called. The sins not only of Minister Beros but also of all HDZ ministers before is also a question of how funds are spent showing the Medikol case. So over the past 14 years, HZZO has paid more than a billion kuna by decision of the health ministry to the private clinic. The vast majority of that amount refers to five ct scans. Therefore, extremely important tests in the process of diagnostics and treatment. However, only 2010 and 2011 The medicine was paid 220 million kuna. Then comes the new power, the SDP gets one five ct scan device and of course amounts to the Medikol being reduced. They're shrinking so much that Madison's leaving for almost bankruptcy, so he was in front of bankruptcy. But here's lucky for Medical, there's a change in power, the HDZ comes back, and since then there's been huge payments to the Medical for that search. So in order to meet our needs, as counterpart Kekin said, we need 60 million kunas for the purchase, so this technique, 60 million kuna. And only in your time did the Ministers pay off the Medikol 160 million kuna, so almost three times more than the needs of the entire Croatia for five ct. And on that very issue, the matter of cost-effectiveness, you're building your reform. So the key thesis is hospitals create debts. But how do hospitals create debts? Well, first of all, they're creating them like that, and I was just watching a dissertation today that analyzed this cost-effectiveness of hospitals, which shows that the problem is that they're being paid... less than the search costs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then of course they're always in debt. And then comes the great state to resuscitate and save them. The argument to be taken away by the decree of a regional hospital owned by local self-government, which, regional self-government, is their founder. Because they're creating losses. So who are you going to give your state hospitals that are making bigger losses? We're gonna give them to someone on the outside? Shall we give them to the concession? What are we gonna do with them? So, you know very well that in 2011 at the 12th year, the Constitutional Court made it clear that the units of regional self-government are closest to citizens and have the right to co-decision in the establishment and abolition of, or merger of, health institutions in their area. How will you please implement that part of the reform against what the Constitutional Court has said is the constitutional right of local, regional self-government? Or maybe you made a deal with the President of the Constitutional Court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118049	The first violation of the Rules of Procedure, the respected Andro Krstulović Oprah.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118050	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Bencic. You have injured Article 238. Rules of Procedure. You have demeaned and offended the MPs. You said at the very beginning, in lack of arguments or in order to achieve visibility, clickability and media attention, you reached for insults and you said that today we were autistic at the point of defense of our Minister Beros, and that we did not use any argument in his defense. Please take care of your expressions. You're a lawyer, you'd have to take care of that. You, Mr. Chairman, take care of that, will you let me say it to the end? To take care of respect for one another [[Stain Sanader: Time's up.]] Thank you very much. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118051	You use this as a replica and you get a warning. Dear Damir Habian, the next violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118052	Thank you, dear Vice President. Article 238(1) indent 4 has been injured. My colleague Bencic, the way you say we defend Minister Beros, is the result of your very sloppyness and incompetence that you have shown today. I expected that today after you heard and read the government's statement, so by all the eight points you put out in your proposal, if nothing else that you've brought out all the very arguments you've made there if nothing else withdraws your proposal and thus saves this disgrace.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118053	Please don't answer Mrs. Bencic. You also get a warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of Sandra Bencic, please. Don't be nervous!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118054	Okay. I'm not just asking. Here, Mr. Oprah, I really want to tell you, I didn't say anything about autistic or autism. [[- Please listen to me!]] I said votabautism. Votabautism is when you talk and what about the other one, not this. So I'm never on this speaker I'm never gonna use and one such term as medical term to describe someone's behavior. So, I said votabautism, I'm sorry if you heard wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118055	And you used this as a replica to Mr. Krstulovic, so you get a warning. We have a replica, the first respected Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118056	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Bencic, I will ask you in Croatian. So, the topic is something our prime minister wants to show that we are opening world-famous topics – the subject of abortion. It's not a world-class topic, it's a civilization theme. It's a civilization question where we are, what we want to be and where we're going. The polls we had a chance to see, so you have everyone doing the polls. We have had opportunities and we have seen a survey of how our fellow citizens are treating women with the right to choose, and I would say for 15 years that all polls show that more than 70% of the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are talking about standing up for it, for the right to abortion. Among them are HDZ voters. Obviously, it's not the voters' problem, it's the ones who sit here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118057	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118058	Thank you, Comrade Dark-Taritash. Exactly. So, the HDZ Club is divided on this issue, their party is divided on this issue, they have a prime minister and a party president who has no power, has no power to unify the party on the issue, and the fact is that their voters in 2/3 are extremely agreed on it, and not only agree on it, but almost 60% of them believe that this issue should be taken into the constitution and guaranteed by the constitution of an abortion, your voters, HDZ voters. So only when they have a strong enough party president who will really have a backdrop in his party will they be able to raise that issue and get a consensus on it, until then it will be a question shared by the people, that is not a question shared by the people, the people are clear about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118059	The next replica of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118060	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow Bencic, I'd like to know if you think the prime minister would have come here for this third situation with Minister Beros in this assembly yesterday that there was no night and the resignation of Minister Maric, that's one thing, he came here and he's trying to convince us that nothing is going to happen and that it will all end equally. He's interested in what you think, but did he still have this third debate here on the issue of both the situation and everything that Minister Beros is doing that was a reason for him to show up here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118061	I thank my colleague Matula for asking. Today, the prime minister made it clear that he had been aware of the resignation of Minister Maric for weeks, and that it clearly led us to conclude that for some reason, the resignation at 10:00 last night leaked to the media for a reason, for a reason. However, I don't think we're the reason neither the opposition nor the impeachment of Beros, that he has two billion other reasons why he decided to announce last night that Maric resigned, which is the fact that we lost that. that they, as a government, lost the dispute in front of the International Court of Arbitration in Washington to MOL and that Croatian citizens of our budget would have to pay the MOL's two billion kuna damage and why they would have to pay off, because HDZ was now a corrupt party because their prime minister sold the INA for its own benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118062	Time. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118063	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure In 238, both MP Matula and MP Bencic are really using every possible means to turn the topic around in some way, and they are calling on the topic and talking about the prime minister. One and the other to follow the debate and if they were present they'd know that he's always at every recall, the Minister's recall request was the prime minister with his minister and I think it's now, and those insinuations that have to do with the resignation last night are really funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118064	Time and you get a warning, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We have the next breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118065	Dear Mr. Vice President, my colleague Murganic has been injured by an article. 238, I would like you to remind her when she already says that her colleague Bencic has strayed from the topic that they were talking for the first two hours not about today's discussion about the Ministry of Health, about the state of the health system and about Minister Beros, but about some things that have been hallucinated here with regard to the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118066	You heard that I warned my colleague Murganic, so then you get a warning, then you get a warning... Well, that was a warning, okay. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] The following violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118067	In 238, MP Voter really allows himself to determine what one of the MPs is going to say. We talked in the first two hours about facts and that's the difference between what you're insinuating and my discussions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118068	Okay, now you're getting another warning, that's your second warning. Next replica, the esteemed Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118069	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Bencic, I've read what you wrote twice, you 32 MPs. According to the argument you wrote, that's our answer. The fact that it's you and Mrs. Devereaux now. Kekin or I don't already know who's trying and trying to further some new arguments, figures and data to present here, and you didn't write there that's your problem and we answer you to what you wrote. This minister or his entire mandate coincided with this time epidemic, with the pandemic in Croatia, and I believed it would be a fundamental argument of his poor work in the pandemic. You wrote five sentences in this verse, I counted five sentences about his term, and in that other than stating the mortality rate, you wrote nothing else, and you're telling us that we didn't prepare, you had all the time in the world to write something worth writing, and what you wrote was really worthless.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118070	Answer. Next replica, the esteemed Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118072	Thank you very much. Several speakers spoke of the SDP in '12, the first six months of two things, this assembly passed the Law on Medical Aided Insemination in six months and were then born 10 years ago many grandchildren, nieces, sovereigns, the Homeland Movement, HDZ and so on. In those six months, I shut down the Medical pipe. And what happened? Pretense settlement, bankruptcy. So two years of chiuzo because I'm a state official because I'm not a secret owner. There's nothing.../The speaker speaks English./... It's not Beroš' fault, there was a big fight between Ljubicic and Dade Milinovic who did it. I think he's... right he's not guilty, he's not guilty. Therefore, this point No. 3. Maybe she could be called... Private health care or maybe better so-called. Private Health.../The speaker speaks English./... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And Madeleine's just one flower out of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118073	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118074	I thank my colleague Ostojić for his comment. So, Medikol is just one of the examples of how public health money is being poured into private pockets without there being any justification for it, for any reason of urgency, for whatever reason we don't have or can't create these capacities, so there's no reason. As there is no valid reason for the medicines we get, we get at a price three times that in Slovakia or Slovenia. What's the real reason for that? What is the legitimate reason why our colleague Kekin was talking about is financed among other different ways by those who put expensive drugs on the list, which is why we pay three times as expensive medicines? That's the reason the cost ineffectiveness of health, that, corruption and clientelism. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118075	The next replica honours Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118076	Dear colleagues, Bencic. You know what's constantly interesting to me in these impeachment debates, so it's been for Coric and Maric and Horvat, here's the third time for Minister Beroš, that there are not many members of the coalition HDZ. They don't even believe in these ministers themselves, they know that everything they're burdened with is the truth and that we should leave our post. However, they prefer armchairs than how a single minister works in his cabinet. But not only do I stay on coalition partners, this story about the Medical is very interesting to me, especially if we're looking at actually who suffers in the end line. They suffer, for example, oncology patients waiting in Rijeka for a winter checkup due to, come to Rijeka and see what oncology looks like, the conditions they have, and then when they come to order in the hallway they themselves oncology patients assist To get their sister's blood out. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Imagine that. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118077	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118078	I thank my colleague Ahmetovic. I would first comment on the fact that there are never really no coalition partners, that's probably the amount of discomfort I can't bear because they would be put in a position to say what we all know they don't believe or defend who we know they can't defend. And he is aware of all that they avoid coming. They avoid talking about it, let's say those facts because they're aware of it in their counties, they know what it looks like. Yeah, one of the reasons why we have such a high rate of cancer mortality is that diagnostic tests wait far longer than in other countries and that cancer is then caught in the last stage and that, of course, healing is at the lowest possible rates and that's why we have such a mortality rate. And it's all a matter of really health management, and for that, it's ultimately the minister who did it. did not organize the system in a way that he could [[Santer Invader: Time.]] to provide a service on time. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118079	Next is the debate on behalf of the HSS and RF MPs' Club of Honored Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118080	Thank you. Now I'm going to say something about why we joined this initiative. First of all, it is important to stress that in health care the situation is extremely difficult largely due to privatisation which is formal, largely due to commercialisation. So these are the processes we've been following for decades and it's not going to stop that easily, but our public health service is really devastationing. I'll tell you what are the two most dramatic examples of this galloping, very often informal privatisation. One of these is this kidney transplant situation, so I really had to respond to my colleagues from HDZ Reiner, I mean, you can't answer this in that way, maybe it was really normal to take out a kidney for the poor and give it to the rich, but today it shouldn't be the case. The second thing, abortion, abortion is practically unreachable in Croatia. So you can't say that the abortion is available if you have cities where he is, the abortion means on request by the 10th week he can't perform. And now, I think these are two dramatic examples that are just the symptoms of what happens in health care and we don't have to take them as absolute, so there are other examples, but they are really dramatic examples and that's why people are engaged in the Mirela Chawide case, not just because of this particular case, but because they feel that the public health service has become inaccessible, that people can't be treated. Why are we talking here three times about the recall of Minister Beros? Not because he may in himself be a troubled minister, but because this is about the human body. Because people on their human body feel the consequences of galloping privatisation in health, formal or informal where health care is really being threatened. You have a situation meaning with a potential, kidney transplant she means confirmed or not, but you have a story in which 2 donors, one means a driver from Panchev, and the other is a baker from Kosovo with six children, coming into a situation to donate his kidney to someone richer, right, recipients and it's not true what someone here said in the debate, there's no doubt about it. It has been confirmed that the Croatian medical chamber has established a legitimate fear of possible use, abuse of basic ethical principles in this situation, be careful, these are very dramatic situations. The other thing is abortion. So, the Workers' Front has been warning since 2018 that the abortion should be returned to the Constitution. The abortion is from the Constitution, so-called Christmas, 2090, was cast out, so we are now not looking for some new article to enter the Constitution, but we are looking for the return of what the socialist Republic of Croatia Constitution of 1974 progressively then, at that moment, provided to women. France is also going to amend the Constitution with this article even though France has never had such an article in its Constitution, preventively, given the American case. We have a situation here that's different from the US Supreme Court, although it can be said that there may be some changes, so the Constitutional Judges are elected in the Assembly by two-thirds, as a rule it ends up being half nominally left, half nominally right, and we will choose in 2024 10 of 13 constitutional judges. It's hard to say that there can be an abortion ban because it's pretty, let's say a safe situation. And we're not asking, at least the Workers' Front to return abortions to the Constitution because what's realistic is that tomorrow's American scenario will happen. No, we're looking for it because right now, the right to abortion is compromised. Now and it's threatened women with a weaker social situation and we can't solve this situation the way that even this government's response means suggesting, we shouldn't, let's just say,... The situation in this way as it is suggested here, which means we have hospitals, we have conscientious objectors, there are some estimates of as much as 70%, public hospitals have to let those objectors be as many as they need to be, so we're going to outsource that service in the private sector. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This cannot be a solution, and we should not agree to such a solution. Why? Because public hospitals need to provide public health services. Now, apart from having to return to the Constitution of abortions and being extremely happy, which, when we hold a referendum on the return of abortions in the Constitution, your voters will sign our referendum because the two-thirds majority of your voters support women's right to choose and therefore you should support our proposal in the House because then you would support what your voters think is right, but if you do not, if you insist on not agree to our initiative, we will go, of course, to the referendum, we expect that your voters will sign for us, but what we want to achieve that referendum is indeed to ensure this example of public health. Public health needs to be secured. Once that right is returned to the Constitution, it will be very difficult to dispute not only because it will be meant to return abortions to the Constitution but in fact in any future situation it will be difficult to defend what is lost somewhere, this SDP carries a little burden on itself, meaning in 2003 when the Law of Medicine was passed and when the right to appeal to conscience was introduced. Maybe it was supposed to be introduced with some fences, right? Maybe some fuses should have been inserted by then. What it comes to in the public health system, why it comes to the fact that the right to abortion is inaccessible because doctors, which from their opportunism, and even some research has shown from fear and from, because of the pressure of the public they decide to be conscientious objectors, and if you have a situation like in a Split hospital that you have, I don't know, 32 objectors, 32 just works, and 1 or 2, I think it's 2, they work, and 32 don't work or in Petrovo, I think maybe 4 do them, you're in a position to take the job I think, which makes you think of other people who don't want to do it. It can't be accepted, so it's absolutely unacceptable. The second thing Hebrang did back in the '90s is to introduce this double practice, double work, that means the possibility to work in public health and to fix that budget by doing it in private health. This leads to the absolute that galloping privatisation of public health where corrupt practices are allowed. Watch out, you have the Labour Act. 101 that prevents conflict of interest between workers and employers. So the worker can't open a craft to enter his employer's field of action. You have the same thing in the Civil Service Act. The restriction, the civil servants cannot open a craft that would be in that field that works means their state service. This is where you need to build it into the law. So, we're going with two more additions, except for the return of abortions to the Constitution, the right to abortion in the Constitution, we're going with the amendments to the Health Protection Act, which we've already referred to in the procedure, means that a double practice is being disabled, that it can be resolved in a way that can't be done by a doctor in private practice if he works in a public health care institution, now we already have a rule that the Director, the Deputy Director, Assistant Director, Minister Beros is trying to introduce it, and for the head of the clinic, it's absolutely insufficient, and it's unfair because only the head of clinic and director would be in that position, and not the worker, means the one who works in a public hospital. And the second thing, meaning the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, the Mandatory Health Insurance Act should be changed in a way that the abortion becomes free, so it must be on that list of public health services and the SDP has made its proposal to the law so-called. The law on abortion where this, this service, is free of charge, should be changed and this law should be amended so that, why should abortion be free and because he is in such a place, he is not free of charge today and is a problem means he, he is commercial practice, means commercial service since the meaning of '74. with this law, it should become free because in this way we do not bring public health into conflict with the private, nor the possibility of privatizing this... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118081	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118082	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, my colleague Kekin, on behalf of the promoter, has shown a great view of the health system today in Croatia, but she did not go by the points, this one, this one, this one, this one, this one, this one, this one, this one, this one, this one, this one, this one, and I'm going to try at least two points, and my colleague Peovic, in her current presentation, said some things that I absolutely disagree with, but that doesn't matter if all those who signed this agreement agree that, in our opinion, they deserve recall. There was no organ sale, there wasn't, don't say it on Rebra, I'm working on Rebra, point seven shouldn't have stood there. The case, the point, the case of Corusic, it's entering private life, let's not do it, let's not do it, these things are not done. If we're not looking at who he sleeps with in four walls, I've never been on "Gay Pride", if we go to "Gay Comes" or some similar manifestations or "Hod for Life" let's not go into the bedrooms, into the apartments, that left never worked, but I totally agree with Case 3, Point 3 and other points. The Medical case, so it's the so-called case. Private practices, so-called Private, monopoly, state monopoly disaster, only one monopoly is worse, private monopoly and that when I became Minister of '12. I found the private monopoly of Medikol, closed up the Spanish because I care about the state and they went on the pretense, and I know this family and I have relations with them, contacts, some of them even heal, but that doesn't matter, that's our money, and there's a colleague Maric, I'm sorry there's no Beros, right, at this committee session. 3.9 million Croats, 4.1 million insurance companies, 4.3 million voters it is essentially a disaster, this last, waiting lists quote Berosh, from a certain day longer and longer, increasingly less and less surgery was covid, and the costs go to heaven and not just that, so I said so. private services, rather than the last 2.g. They arrange additional amounts for private clinics and private hospitals, and you don't even know about it, not even you colleagues who are in the ruling coalition, I'm sure you have nothing to do with it, which is why I said. Medikol, Google now, Medikol was a mess in 2011, Ljubicic contracted, Milinović washed his hands, Hebrang fueled the fire that 10 thousand Croats were overly irradiated and everything is known and today it is being maintained, but what is the problem, they entered new institutions. It's all praise to God online, go to the court register, to the courts, Google and that's something that just can't happen, it doesn't matter which party is in power, so I said that in this case, maybe the least guilty is his predecessors. What's the problem if you don't have a machine on Rebr and in Vinograd? You can't treat patients, you can't educate doctors, you can't educate students, you can't show, you can't simply do your job as a professional teacher, I can't tell people anything, what to tell people, that they go to privates, so Medikol is called a paradigm. There is no private health care, there is no private health care, there is no if 70% of these private clinics get money from HZZO, then the state needs to nationalize them, or the state is co-owner, or God forbid some co-owner or HZZO official co-owner, something, something wrong with that, something doesn't make people better, and when you close the pipe, it all falls. You can imagine the geniuses that make such a profit with our money. I don't know anything about it, but I'm stuck right now and I know a lot if I've been Minister of Health, so I hear, so of course I've been checking. Once again, the name of one former minister appears and 4 Euro funds competitions, so pure money, fresh money has been cancelled in the last year, remember the flower shop, Ki experts so-called. Nevena Ljubića, and that's why my colleague Kekin said it has to be an ethical code, you don't have to be a parliamentary representative to pay for your company's trip, I haven't been paid for any wholesaler, the wholesalers are traders, you don't work with them, you're corrupt, you work with science, and that's something you just have to pay back as soon as possible before that code is a whole series of cases that I'm going to talk about on behalf of the club falls to the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118083	You have one replica, please, dear Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118084	Thank you. Well, I have to admit, I didn't quite realize this when you started what you disagreed with, you said you didn't agree with point 1 and point 2 or I got it wrong, I mean correct me if I got it wrong anyway, that's my question and the second question might be that you'd have a better view of it. Why in 2003 didn't it go into the law on medical care with some type of fence, so if it went with the possibility that doctors had an objection to their conscience in performing certain procedures whether or not we could in any way limit, let's say Andro Vlahusic, who was the minister at the time, said he couldn't even imagine how things would happen, I would say that maybe we could have imagined it, though, I think things are predictable in that direction. This unpreservative revolution has been going on since the '90s, so we can see that as soon as the right to abortion has been cast out, the pressures on that right is right, it's not an accident that was in that Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118085	I disagree with point 7 of the suspected transplants on KBC, with point 5 of the case, Corusic, I agree that the right to abortion is yes, right to the MPO yes, right to appeal of conscience yes, right to euthanasia no. It's a fundamental principle of life. In 2001, me and Minister Stavinic banned public, private work, and we banned it. You know how many clinic heads were then, working in a private office, a dozen, the Constitutional Court shot it down. And today, unfortunately, it's done, my colleague Reiner was the head of my clinic never worked, he never worked in private. Director Corusic didn't pick any head of the clinic that works privately, you can't, you can't, he even told them in the face of his party, you can't, brother. Not the head of the clinic, you can't cheer for Dinamo and Hajduk, you can love Dinamo, Hajduk, you love Croatia, you love the fire department, you appreciate Dahlic, but either you're a Hajduk or a dinosaur. So I don't agree with that, but it only shows our width. The recall of Berosha is simply needed from a whole series of things but some of them They shouldn't have been. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118086	Next is the debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club of Honored Anka Mrak Taritas and Dalia Oreshković.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118087	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, we were abandoned by Mr. Plenkovic because we have some other obligations, then we were abandoned by the State Secretary, and now we have been abandoned by the Minister, well, well, it takes a little while longer by this toilet, but as to who. But the key question we all need to ask ourselves is why Minister Willy Berosh has to leave. The answer that's very simple for me, which is because he's a bad minister. It's very bad. It's not the category that there's better and worse in every government, it's so bad that it really has to go. Wherever there are failures, failures, endangerment of the health and rights of citizens, and of course suspicions of guessing and corruption. Funny today, they look like those moments two and a half years ago when Willy Beros became a minister and when people in fear of the upcoming unknown pandemics of the crown gave him confidence and declared him a great minister because of several press conferences. Just as nothing knew about the crown, so nothing knew about Minister Beros. In the meantime, unfortunately, it got out pretty bad. Of course, no one thought that health care was a light sector, that, in order not to be misunderstood, health care was an extremely difficult sector, but that every single thing that you get turned into that I don't say what's the opposite of gold, it's really not a situation to stay in office. There are hundreds of thousands of words written on the crown, but the summary of everything is that we tragically failed. Among the largest deaths in the world and among the least vaccinated are data that are not discussed, such are facts, and not that we did not warn in time. We were there to remember until early morning there was a debate, I had a crown then and I was home so I remember well that the debate was at 3:00 in the morning, we told the minister that it wasn't going well, that the coordination of the service didn't work out, that we had a problem. When did we say that? At the very beginning. That's when I asked the minister in one replica, Minister, what you did to make a vaccination campaign because the vaccination is going to start and it's going to go there at Christmas, and if you don't do a good campaign, we're going to fail there. But then the situation was before any dose of the vaccine even arrived in Croatia. But as if you were talking to the wall, the minister didn't accept it at all. We were told that we were insecure, that we didn't know, that it wasn't true what we were doing, that it was bad and it wasn't bad, and it was the results that were. I really don't want to or won't push anyone's personal responsibility for more dead than in the Homeland War, but that's why the Minister of Health's departure I have no doubt. The minister has quarreled with all the associations of doctors, bringing chaos into primary health care, proposing torrid reform procedures from which all hair rises on the head, mandatory systematic examinations that will be carried out along with waiting lists that are already going up to 2 years, the question is whether it can do anything that has any minimum, small chances of success. The first waiting lists, and then I guess the mandatory systematic, which in itself is not a bad idea, but the idea requires a capable minister, and this minister is not. Civil rights that are not real because of the mass appeal of conscience, suspicious organ transplants, the savage director of the largest KBC to be covered up and held in office, millions for poorly done or not done by companies of their friends, hundreds of millions of kunas to another company because it has devices that the state for unknown reasons does not obtain alone, public accounting and embarrassment of patients in the most difficult situations of life. It's a conclusion. Minister Willy Berosh simply can't be a minister. There's nothing we can add or take away. I purposely asked Prime Minister Plenkovic about the 20th April of this year and what I can conclude in one sentence, that Minister Beros, apart from all the failures we point to, shows defiance and disobedience to his own boss, the Prime Minister. Even if it's not as bad as we already say and warn, this may at some point be the prime minister's enough reason to relieve him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118088	Honorable MPs and MPs. What should be the assignment of the Minister of Health? First of all, organize a health care system to measure Croatian patients. Every patient of ours knows our health system isn't like that. In order to do so with all these accumulated problems, which are not just in the mandate of this government, some of them have been inherited from earlier times, bold and difficult decisions need to be made. It means being ready for many to resent and get maybe by the kidney, by the back, not to be popular in the media, and here the present minister was much preferable to be model Covid press. For two years, we actually had this one permanent state of reporting on nothing, and at first it served the minister that in the media he represented himself as, well, finally the hero arrived. We have someone who has a party card, but, look, wonders, a man does his job. As with the mask, these presses hide that there is absolutely nothing to do about the system and all those burning problems, so they remain in the legacy of some minister who will have an accident to deal with it, with these issues when it comes to order. 3 main issues, 3 main problems are the debts of the entire hospital system, and so are debts towards wholesale drugs, another key problem is the lack of doctors, both physicians and other medical staff, nurses and a third problem is the increasing burden of unnecessary administrative tasks of primary healthcare doctors and family medicine. What should the Minister of Health do for starters? We may admit that we have too many hospitals compared to the population. We have some hospitals that are less than 30 kilometers apart. No country that would be much richer, more prosperous, more rationally organized than ours could bear. But that's a political issue because saying that a hospital will close, so it doesn't administratively connect as it is often done when it wants to hide the legal situation, but close, means that somewhere such a minister will resent, that he will lose a few political points somewhere. When we talk about the lack of a doctor, it should therefore be said that it is indeed as it is, strange but truthfully admitted by our prime minister, the reason is low wages, but it is not only the pay of the reason why our doctors and other people are leaving. They are aware that there is a problem with political staffing in the health system. I believe that there are not as many party cards as among doctors anywhere, and some of these doctors are literally small gods of life and death, whether they like it or not, they should have said it and the Croatian public should hear it. He's not the only one, unfortunately he's not the only one. There's literally no department, no hospital, but a department that doesn't have some, some card, some ID that makes it more critical in times of crisis, or someone in these critical moments gets a little better at his career. That's why people are leaving, and then that corruption that someone said well about is really the same cancer of the early health system is visible in these benefits when personneling public health institutions, but it's also visible on much worse examples. It is visible, for example, when certain applications and their production are assigned to some florists, so this girl's money all over the place, it was handled by the health minister present here. And then we come up with that situation that a number of people have been paid us, they see that their salaries are not even paid when the Covid crisis conditions have been working overtime, let's remember these protests and strikes, but for corrupt affairs, for subscriptions. There's always apps. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118089	Next is the debate on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118090	Thank you. In the event of a river cardiosurgeon, Dr. Zrnića raises the question why institutions, primarily the Ministry of Health and I am the minister, although he should have been familiar with the whole case, in which he did nothing to resolve and help the situation, in so far-fetched inter-human relations at the Department of Cardiotoracal Surgery of the KBC Rijeka. Today, Minister Beroš told us that he was not familiar with the case, but he received e-mails pointing to the hands of Minister Beros 10.9.2020 and then again 21.4.2022 from Boriszrnic@yahoo.co.uk. In fact, you sent mail ministers on February 11, 2021, to the hospital management, where you are looking for further competent treatment on the basis of Mr. Zrnić. But there was no further action, and you did nothing. Such relations despite the judicial rulings of power for discrimination that Dr. Zrnić was able to win, so such relations must have affected and affected the quality of health care in that institution, which is why Dr. Zrnić, with concrete evidence and submissions, spoke repeatedly to the Ministry of Health and personally to Minister Beros. And these reports were not about mobbing, were also about privatising the public sector and about certain unacceptable outcomes in certain patients. Although the quality of health care institutions is under the direct authority of the Ministry of Health Minister Beros decided to ignore the whole thing easily, and it is concluded that this ignoring is only motivated by HDZ staffing from the board of directors to the lower. So again, the party and its minister, Beros, have chosen a path, a path of ignoring and inaction. The Ministry of Affairs, which has been entrusted to them, is the supervision of work in health institutions, has transferred largely to the Medical Chamber, thereby trying to bring the whole thing down to the individual responsibility of the doctor and some of their personal conflict without objectively determining the responsibility of the management staff who are either of the cases of extraterrestrial members. With this, the minister easily allowed no objective supervision of the quality of health services to be carried out, although it is a state-owned institution that is gravitating about half a million people. In this case, it might be thought that the inspection is sent to institutions only and only when it corresponds to the management, and does not take into account the interests of patients who are certainly at risk in such procedures of the ministry. In such a lack of doctor, the ministry is obliged to do everything that all experts, all doctors have normal working conditions, and it does not leave such a problem to last for years and that a cardiosurgeon, and that is certainly a deficit specialization, disabled in his work and still in spite of powerful judgments in his favour is not allowed to operate. Minister Beroš, you said you would seek the authority of Director of KBC Rijeka but this director, until he was not yet the director, was a signed petition against Dr. Grapes. That's why his testimony can't be objective, I hope you're at least agreeing with it because dr. Zrnić went through the courts and proved but did not help him as you can see, however, there were further even more radical penalties and ultimately isolation, humiliation and discredition. Minister Beroš, it is your responsibility to email and report Dr. The grains didn't reach you, although they were addressed to you, and that no surveillance was initiated in that case. It is your responsibility to allow such a case to be dragged into the hospital for years under your political option. Has the party chosen a way here, too? And such cases where medical groups are harassing and in the work prevent individuals who point to system failures unfortunately are not lonely and that is your responsibility because you assume party interests in public interests and ignoring you do not launch investigations and surveillance, only to protect those taken by HDZ. And that's why doctors are leaving this country, and that is your responsibility, and that is why you should really resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118091	Next is a debate on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, respected Rajko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118092	So, the Social Democrats club did not sign the impeachment except for two members, me and my colleagues Kuzmanic, if we have already asked for an appeal from the entire government. That was one of the reasons, but of course since we're a big democratic club we have the right to respect each and every one of us. So, of course, I've signed a motion for impeachment with a whole series of reasons. Maybe we should have put Dr. Ursha in. Grapes as point 9. But it's not the minister's job to send a call to Cavida to call him, nor is it the minister's call to tell Zrnić to call me. The Minister's call is something else, that he knows how to organize the system, that's the minister's call. Art. 23., 24. I didn't write this, but I'm totally following up on a little while ago I commended my colleague Kekin who in 20 minutes gave a big review, but here you should have Ivana in the next amended law these eight days put on two days of pregnancy going, the baby growing. If you need an abortion, if you need a medical one day means a lot, six hours means a lot. So, in changing the law, a first-degree, second-degree commission should be manifested within 48 hours. You're all at zoom conferences, ma in 24 hours poof, poof, poof cases that consensus is made and signed by electronic signature. So this isn't a hot dog, Chawida. It's a serious thing. Mrs. Chavaida is at St. The ghost waited nine days, was obvious in 24 hours, waiting for a nine-day search. So this isn't a snooze. Point 1 means that, in my view, this should change and all possible articles of the law should be shortened for the sake of the health of the wife and child. Point 2, this was also said by counterpart Grbin very clearly what health institutions are, there is clear and writes health institutions in public health cannot refuse to provide the law prescribed medical services and are obliged to employ enough staff who are willing to provide all reproductive health services including termination of pregnancy. This is true, so health institutions are obliged and it should have been done by hospitals that didn't do it, and they're written in the government's statement, but there's Osijek, Pozega, but there's Pakrac, Vinkovci, but there's Vukovar, Knin, but there's Sibenik and Virovitica, but unfortunately there's St. The ghost of our great Zagreb hospital. She's not exactly in great company. I really appreciate my colleagues from Nash, but it's a small hospital, and I really appreciate my colleagues from Pakrac very much, but it's a small hospital. Unfortunately, there's a Holy Spirit in this society, and I have to say it because I've been asked by my colleagues from my club. To hire a gynecologist, a neurosurgeon hospital can do it within three days. If you have a gynecologist who works in Nasice, Dubrovnik, Pula and wants to come to Zagreb, there is no public competition, no public competition, 3 days, yet, it says I will not spend an annual vacation, it can be 2 days. And that's why my fellow Social Democrats who didn't sign it told me, but the Holy Spirit is unfortunately the current Zagreb government. And now I'm going to stand there, and I have to say that because I've been asked by my colleagues, I'm not speaking for myself, I'm speaking for my colleagues. That had to go away. I think we just have to, if we're going to say Beroš is guilty, and he's guilty because he hasn't arranged the system then the head of the City of Zagreb's health department is guilty. If we're going to say that Plenkovic is guilty because he has Beros then he is also the mayor of Tomasevic. If we are to say that Ante Sander, or Jandrokovic, is guilty as the president of the assembly then he is also guilty as the president of the City of Zagreb Assembly. And that's what I have to say. And that's what I have to say. And I have to say, common sense, pure logic, first high school, seven elementary schools depending on who's a little more advanced than who's not. That's why we need to be careful when we write these things. Be careful, not to talk about these points where a single transplant where we're world champions number one in the world in this way talk. All these cases have been re-evaluated. You've all been, you've been sent to your colleagues and you've asked for second opinion, second opinion, third opinion, fourth opinion, there's a process in the transplant that's a hundred doctors. And there Berosch was right but it should be repeated, repeated, repeated. Doctors aren't in charge of selling kidneys, you have to say, you have to write, you hit the seal, you're made public because you're throwing away the greatest human act, and that's giving away the organs of the family, I've done it, I've done it in my practice. Your patient dies and you need to talk to your family and tell them, listen to the missing child, but you will save 5 lives. There's no worse stuff. I'm a little emotional right now. And now this is why we're setting aside such a system. Don't do that. Berosch has a whole series of reasons to call it off, but not this one, we think in the Social Democrats, a whole series of reasons. As I was saying eight months ago that Minister Maric should leave but the last one from the government, everyone must go before him, and unfortunately he went to his side. You said that the European Health Commissioner attacked you have 65 hospitals in Croatia. We don't have 65, we don't have 67, 68, 69 because private clinics in the last two years have the stomillions you signed, not you, but your HZZO director. They're hospitals, they're hospitals. Instead of reducing the number of hospitals, we expanded them. And you have to take care of it as a minister because it's registered to you because you're a secret owner, I don't think you are, I know you well, but it's registered to you. Unfortunately, the name of a former minister and in competitions, a key expert in florists, competitions, and similar things, all the time. You held him for a while as President of the Board of Directors. I've looked at four contests now, I don't like to see portals, the portals all say is what's true and what's not, but I know from the ministry. The last case of accreditation, in case you were just very sovereign, passionately said accreditation was certification, right, so do you know, Mr. Minister, that a few months ago you had an accreditation tender that came to 6 companies, of which 3 international ones, and you know how that contest ended, you canceled it. Why did you undo it? Look, ministers, and God's people, not Cuspis, 6 companies, one was elected, five complained, not one, five complained to DCOM and all five complaints, I haven't heard it in my life he's accepted, the ministry has to pay 300,000 kuna and the minister may not know it, it's not his, he doesn't have to deal with it. So all five complaints are accepted, the ministry has to pay this money to the state and what the ministry says in the end, so we won't do anything because in the meantime we did it ourselves. And look, Minister, I'm going to quote a point here that was beautifully written probably by Mrs. Dr. Kekin. A question has been raised that motivated the minister, motivated by the ministry to stop the competition, not to listen to the DCOM, not to listen to the state, if there was no gray zone, black zones, blue envelopes, on the table of payments on the table of agreements. Something was, something was, I don't know what it was, but in that case I didn't hear, so one simple contest. Ethics code, I didn't really know that HZO doesn't do that anymore... You have to do it now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If they were working, and I've been doing thank God research, research from Japan to America, you write that you're in conflict of interest, and there's no way I can't attend meetings where it's being decided. I can't. And not that former minister, for example, Ljubicic, is a key expert on why he's not Reiner, why not me, why he's not Hebrang, because we respect the function we've been doing. Because we know something that some others don't know, that we can't use. So you have a lot of work to do, and as far as the Minister's pandemic is concerned, we can talk about statistics like this, what mortality is, what morbidity is, what aviation is, but the fact is that it didn't end well. A lot of people died and you're right, unfortunately, one group of our parliamentary deputies was doing an anti-vaxer campaign and it hit us very hard. .../The speaker doesn't understand. What she was talking about, colleague Kekin, 20 million lives were saved only by vaccination in the first year of vaccination.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118093	On behalf of the promoter, Honored Katarina Peović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118094	Yeah, well, we still need to replicate a little bit about what's been said now. So, as far as kidney transplants are concerned, things aren't exactly clean. So we have an ethical commission or a Croatian medical chamber that found that perhaps there is one fear of possible abuse of basic ethical principles. I have to tell you the same thing from that healthy rational perspective that the kidney donor who is a truck driver from Pećah, or a baker from Kosovo who has six children who the kidney donor others don't sound very convincing, means as kidney givers to some rich people in Croatia and that there is no harm to ethical principles. What we can follow here, I'm afraid, is really connected to the relationship of the rich and the poor. And in any case, Mercury didn't agree to those two transplants either. So I think we should be a little careful around here when we're giving the grades on it. You mentioned euthanasia. I don't know if I got it right, but we didn't talk about euthanasia in any context here. So neither did the proposal say that unless you referred to a pregnancy break case, like... Okay. Okay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay. I'm sorry if I interpreted it that way, because you know it was with the Chavaid case of some interpretations that it was euthanasia, which is really out of your mind. And I just wanted to say about Chorusic. I mean, it's hard to defend him even though you tried, because we have a situation that's almost over, so every public statement is scandalous, and certainly an ovary operation. We'd really have to draw a line here, and we can't do that. You may have another perspective of some other specific situations in which you have some other knowledge, but our knowledge from what we have seen in the media is certainly one scandalous relationship and indeed in the medical lobby in some way there is such a type of very boastful argument and relationship and we need to be aware of the same. So in relation to abortion, the patients were often in a subordinate position because doctors took the right not to carry out an abortion, but not from the perspective of their own ethical perspective, but from the perspective of the moralization and supremacy they set up in that system which should not be the case. What needs to be established is and that's why I asked you a few times that question about the year 2003. Because if we have this Law of Medicine that was then passed, there may be some kind of fence or some fuse that we do not have hospitals in Croatia that do not fully provide that health care service to women, because it cannot mean the right to object to conscience being in front of women's right to health care. So it's actually depriving the right to health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118095	And a debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club of Honored Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118096	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Government of the Republic of Croatia notes this request: “The quality and available health care is one of the fundamental objectives of the public-health system of the Republic of Croatia.” I said we're not going home to Mr. Beros. We know that a sufficient number of hands from the ruling option will refuse this demand for opposition, but the right duty and obligation of opposition to say what is wrong, and you from the ministry or government must correct it all and it is important that you do not repeat mistakes. Now what are the reasons for not trusting Minister Berosch? So there's already been some talk about it, so let's just get this over with. Therefore, inaccessability to stop pregnancy on a medical indication after 22 weeks of pregnancy. We have all witnessed the case of Cavida, the inaccessibility of termination of pregnancy at the request of a woman up to 10 weeks from conception, the Medikol case, the USKOK business investigation with Kuspis d.o.o., the case of Čorusic, pandemic, suspected transplants in KBC Zagreb, health reform. Let's get this straight. So the inaccessibility stops pregnancy. The recent thematic session of the Health Committee on the Appeal of Consciousness was held. Medical institutions are obliged to ensure the provision of this health service is clearly stated. At the meeting, however, part of the profession says, so those who advocate the appeal of conscience that it is the task of the health ministry, and the health ministry says it is the task of the institution. Then make a deal. According to the data, 58% of doctors have a conscience call. We even heard 70 percent. Does the Department of Health have precise information about doctors, nurses, pharmacists? What does practice say? Patients walk from institution to institution. With regard to the proposal for a law on termination of pregnancy recently offered by the SDP, they rejected it. I would like to remind you that the termination of pregnancy, i.e. the abortion in the Republic of Croatia, is regulated by the Health Measures Act to exercise the right to free decision on the birth of children from 1978. In 2017, the Constitutional Court ordered that, within two years, the existing new law should be passed not backwards but improved because it is not in conformity with the Constitution. The SDP respected all items requested by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court also directs the legislator to define educational, preventive measures as part of his assessment to make the abortion an exception to what we advocate, a time limit for thinking about a woman, to regulate the costs of pregnancy, a matter of appeal to consciences that we have not questioned, we have also defined a medical termination of the pregnancy that is not mentioned in the old law. So the rulings turned us down, and they don't give their law. So you're afraid of your voters very clearly. The surrounding countries of Slovenia, Serbia have defined who, as well as how to stop pregnancy up to 10 weeks and after 22 weeks, respectively. Don't we have the knowledge and expertise of others? The appeal of conscience there practically does not exist. So, I talked to people from the countries mentioned. We see the Medikol case, so the government in defence of the minister states that the health system in the Republic of Croatia is a public and private part of the two segments that complement each other and that the HZZO can conclude contracts with private persons to provide health care services to patients. Yes, the patient is in first place and in that sense we can agree, but a private giant in the last 14 years has received more than a billion kuna for PETCT services. Medikol owns 4 devices, and only one bought during the SDP government has on Rebr, and despite the announcements by former Minister Kujundzic, who announced in 2019 the purchase of 4 PETCT devices for 60 million kuna that would satisfy all needs of cancer patients, we ask ourselves, who is affected, whose interest is protected and what is waiting. In these 28 months, nearly 160 million kunas have been paid into office by Minister Beros. I do not know if you know on 12 July 2007 a lease agreement was concluded between the Medikol Zagreb Poliklinic and the KBC Sisters of Mercy which defines the terms of the rent and the arrangements of the area for neurosurgery on the first floor of 330 m2 in Zagreb, Vinogradska cesta 29 for performing the diagnostics of PETCT with a monthly amount of 500 kuna per period of 10 years. Is that okay, 500 kuna? Private hospital incomes experienced huge growth especially during the pandemic period. The SDP does not oppose the additional work of doctors from the public health system in private institutions, but we are in favour of introducing order. It is important to know how many norms a person needs to do in the public health system, not that one doctor on a working day covers 3 to 5 lorries from one to the other, it must be known whether his work is being done consciously, it is known from when to when it is working time, and only then can it be done privately. In addition, healthcare professionals should adequately pay and do everything to keep us in Croatia. It is clear that, especially in our KBCs, there is a serious conflict of private and public interest. There's a large number of clinic chiefs and KBC's offices have their own private polyclinics. You've tried to announce some kind of change in that sense, but of course resistance of interesting lobbies. Surveys of USKOK related to business with Cuspis d.o.o. and other affairs, we've heard a lot about it, so the media was full of signs of millions of amounts paid to Cuspis d.o.o. We've been warning about that, and we've been warning about it from the opposition. The government and the Ministry of Health claim there is nothing controversial, and how do you explain that in late 2020 Vinka Kujundzic was paid 2.75 million kuna to work on the upgrade of two IT systems, that they charge 6,750 hours in 12 days, which would mean that 5 employees worked 112 hours a day. Why did a radiation device in the KBC of the Mercy Sisters subscribe for 6.5 million kuna, who is responsible? You once told ministers to frame you. Who? Why? So explain. Regarding the case, Corusic and suspected transplants at KBC Zagreb, so the man who runs the largest KBC in Croatia has injured several ethical and legal norms. Not only did he damage his patient's health but he spoke about her personal data on public television. You don't judge him, you wait for the decision of other institutions and bodies. Sins related to the organisation of vaccinations and the excessive vaccination of dignitaries including the future finance minister, in doubt of maladministration of the transplant that we do not speak. It is true that the Republic of Croatia is at the very top in the area of transplants and all praises to experts who give their maximum engagement in this as well as of course to patients, but if suspicious cases occur, even if two or three years ago, it is not the task of the health authorities to request an investigation and transparently explain what it is. In the opposite affairs that do not have the proper reactions of leading people in health care will be suspected of the system. As far as the pandemic is concerned, the health system has survived primarily thanks to enthusiasm, sacrifice and the laborability of health care professionals. We have witnessed a series of national headquarters mistakes, you have not heard the cry and suggestions of professional associations and opposition in order to reduce the burden on the system as well as mortality, now it is over 16,000 and we are at the top 10 per mortality of Covid in the world. Of course there was a move from the ministry that was, but also expected and needed. For example, with regard to instructions from healthcare institutions for oncology patients, although numerous problems on the ground continue to exist, from occasional drug shortages, radiation failures. Discarding vaccines, we warned on time to take care of the deadlines. There were 275,000 vaccines thrown, now the new data is as much as 350,000 doses. All 55% of the citizens received two doses of the vaccine. The vaccination campaign was insufficient and delayed. From 2020 to 2023, more than 19 million doses of vaccine were agreed. And at the end of the health reform. The health situation is unsustainable, the patients are unhappy with the growing waiting lists. The citizens are therefore dissatisfied with the fact that they do not have equal access to health care in all parts of Croatia. Health care professionals are dissatisfied with working conditions, treatment and relations with them. They're going abroad or into the private sector. The situation in hospitals is not financially sustainable and the question of how long the system will be able to receive patients. Health debts are being accumulated and the question of when to suspend the delivery of medicines to hospitals will occur again. Last year, we were saying that the debt per month is growing 250 to 300 million kuna, now it's already half a billion kuna per month. There is no monitoring of the outcome of treatment for a series of diseases. Patients' cries and professional associations are not being listened to. You didn't protect the profession or patients related to the Road Safety Act where doctors should like cops report patients not to drive. The Regulation on job names and public service complexity coefficients is pending. So, there are a number of requests to see reforms we haven't received as well as members of the Health Committee. I'm going to talk about this in more detail on behalf of the promoter, but... Listen, and correct what you have not done. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118097	Next is the debate on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, respected Ivana Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118098	Thank you, Chairman. So I'm going to continue a little further on how the health system has become more accessible and more quality for patients, and many have mentioned it today, but it's worth one more time. Therefore, there is a permanent problem in Croatia of the inaccessible medical service of premature pregnancy termination until 10 weeks from conception at the woman's request. I think general care for the reproductive health of our women is on the low branches of the primary onward. First in Zagreb there are no doctors, doctors in public health care that you can contact to get care than we all have private because there is no room anywhere, but okay. This is guaranteed by the Law on Health Measures for the exercise of the right to free decision on the birth of children. So, in the 30 months you've been in office, there's no interest in solving this problem. So, in May, you state in the media that the appeal of conscience in Croatia has 45% of gynecologists and gynecologists, which is not true. So, in May of this year, when you are 28 months in office, you do not know what part of the gynecologist and gynecologist in Croatia has the appeal of conscience. There are 58% of them, and even in 629 public hospitals in Croatia that have an contracted service with HZZO, no gynecologist wants to do pregnancy termination due to a call for conscience. In addition to those institutions where gynecologists and gynecologists are present on paper without a conscience, it often seems that it is not possible to stop their pregnancy and become as difficult as possible, so in the Vinkovak hospital, say that you agree with your boss live in China only after mandatory consultation, and in Osijek, as we heard after the procedure in your regular examination, you learn that they have not interrupted your pregnancy and that they have failed to tell you. All of this brings us to the bizarre situation I was talking about today, so we have a terrible little pregnancy break, we're using a terrible little contraception and we're slipping into a demographic disaster. How is that possible? So either abstinence has sent part of a national being or abortions are carried out beyond the state or outside the state, and we all know that's the case. What are we betting on? I think I'm betting on Brezice. The role of the Minister of Health is therefore your role to ensure that the appeal of conscience does not interfere with the availability of legal health care. So, your role is to implement standards that will clearly articulate the obligation of the state to ensure that the appeal of conscience in practice does not prevent the availability and accessibility of medical services, then to ensure supervision, to ensure the monitoring of practices and to seek responsibility from those who do not respect the standards. Therefore, public health institutions should not be able to refuse the provision of a prescribed medical service, but this is happening to us all the time. Therefore, you did not provide this and therefore Croatian citizens and Croatian health institutions cannot achieve the health care that the law guarantees them but pay after paying this healthcare system and going to other countries and paying other healthcare institutions to exercise the right to health care they need. This is the path that HDZ has chosen, it should be quite clear. This path also leads us to the case of Cavide, which in early May actually revealed some of the practices carried out in the Croatian health system very regularly. So, after facing severe fruit diagnosis, a diagnosis that assumes severe malformation, I am now officially reading what the first-degree commission has said, a severe malformation of the fruit with consequently severe disability and low quality of life, and the high probability of intrauteral or early neonatal mortality of Mirel Cavida failed to achieve the right to health care guaranteed by the same law, which is quite clear there and says that in such cases the termination of pregnancy allows and clearly defines a procedure involving a first-degree commission, a second-degree commission, and then one of these, if the first one did not approve, she regrets, the second approves. Despite this perfectly clear legal framework, however, the leading people in Croatian health disputed this right, including you ministers. So, you called for the opinion of a seven-member commission that I still don't know who formed it, or what powers it had, since it was clearly neither a first-degree nor a second-degree law. So it's some commission that was set up under that law. And after referring to the opinion of the committee chaired by the man who thought and embryos killed by brothers and sisters, it was said that the condition of the fruit of Mirela Chawide combined with life and that it must not be allowed to stop her pregnancy. Therefore, this criterion is not in the law of the Republic of Croatia, although such intervention is a breach of the law and in fact calls for the law not to be respected. Later under the pressure of the public and after a decision by the Slovenian Commission has been made, which approved Mrs. Cavidi's termination of pregnancy, the second-degree commission decides that the legal medical conditions for the termination of pregnancy have been met, but yet Mirela Cavida fails to exercise her right in Croatia because she is not offered an end to pregnancy but is offered early delivery, which is not the same. And at the end of the day, Mrs. Chavayda goes that way again to Slovenia. After the public release of Mrs. Chavaide, following statements by leading people in Croatian health who explicitly stated that in Croatia none of the gynecologists and gynecologists did not induce fetal death, which is an integral part of the pregnancy interruption after 22 weeks, it became clear that the law governing the early termination of pregnancy regularly violates the conditions of art. 22, but they are more than 22 weeks pregnant, the disabled health care provided by the law is confirmed by women who are suggested as well as Mrs. Chawidi to solve their problem in Slovenia, many have done just that, and Slovenian colleagues themselves confirm that they have a two-digit number of women from Croatia who are in the situation annually. So the party chooses the way and this path leads us straight to Slovenia, and the availability and quality when they reach Croatian women remain a dead letter on paper. Otherwise we are called here around the Holy Spirit because there is an institution in which there is an institutional call to conscience, so in that institution for years, I guess since 2015, no gynecologist has stopped pregnancy. When the story started, so two months ago about the Chavaid case, I made it clear that the appeal to conscience was not an individual matter of gynecologist being called upon, it was a system policy that took place for years, for 10 years, long before Minister Berosha when the heads of the health care institution were being placed on by people who, of course, chose by the party not to be confused, put people, who openly and publicly declare that any termination of pregnancy is unacceptable, and these people chose on those heads of hospitals by the heads of the gynaecology clinics, and then it was easy, because everything is clear to anyone who works in health, there is no progress, there is no opportunity for better, you will be on duty 100 times a month if you don't do what your boss tells you, so it is. And what we are now doing on the Holy Spirit is that we are changing the system matter, changing it by changing the governing council, changing it by changing the director who brings a whole new policy not only about reproductive health but also about general health, and changing it by changing it by changing the head of the gynaecology clinic which here on July 21st starts working and among the task of ensuring that the law is also being implemented has been tasked with improving overall reproductive care in that hospital that has seriously deorated in the last few years because it goes hand in hand, those who do not normally give women much less care and for all other aspects of their health. And it's not easy, so whenever you make a change, reform if you want, you're going to have terrible resistances, and that's why it sounds very worrying to announce that the hospital is going to be put under the state's hat, because it literally means you don't have any arguments about debts, or, literally, it means that you're going to staff up, so that some boss is going to come back to make such a difference that after that, in three steps, we're going to have an institutional call of conscience again, don't do that, don't do that, let us fix things there, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118099	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative Rajko Ostojic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118100	A little while ago, I said how long General Hospital Dubrovnik, 310 million kuna. Nikola, if you'd given it to the mayor, you'd have given it to the minister, but you'd have taken 310 million kunas and made four kindergartens and settled the next election, right? Don't be afraid of the county hospitals moving into state property, don't be afraid of that. When I was a minister, they all crossed general special, not valosotherapy, all of them passed except for the City of Zagreb, Milan Bandić who did not give it, and every year we voted me and Tomaševic there together and Mrak-Taritaš 100, 200, 300 million kuna and burned kindergartens. Dash, return to the mayor, who is here now, Dobroslavić is still, he will give it, and where he gets 310 million kuna, where he gets it, if it can make 5-6 kindergartens, so it's pure logic. I mentioned everything except health care reform. Minister, today you've been in shape, you've made a lot of promises, don't make such a promise, in a year, in a year's time the first immunological vaccine, don't God, God, well, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don, don, don't, don't, don't, don't, don, don, don, don't, don't,. So the patient in the center, quote you, somewhere our patient is lost. Doctors of family medicine, I quote, in the center, so di this pendrek law for God's sake if our doctor of family medicine is the foundation. You're a neurosurgeon, there's 4 psychiatrists, 70-80% of medicines when you open it acts on the central nervous system and can interfere with driving cars, tractors, or helicopters or whatever drives, 70% to 80%. You instead of allowing family doctors to work with patients, you are now allowing them to be pendrecious to the law, so don't do it. If these are my doctors, and I know them, they're very smart, so they'll write 70% of Croats within 6 months that they're not able to drive, great, so I'll see Minister Primorec fill his 25-pound VAT of diesel, that's an argument to them, here's a call to KHOM, you just respect what it says in, in, in medicine. You're a neurosurgeon, you know what hardware is, so the brain looks like, 4 of our psychiatrists Petrov, Kekin, this cell and now... They're software, they're watching it work, and we're humanware, we're human resources is, they're gonna take away our licenses, who, family medicine doctors, don't do it, don't do it if you believe what you said. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the administration is so much that it's just amazing. Ministers, you're being drawn up, they're doing you a treat, you're very pleased to say that the future directors, and that Bartulica wrote, must wisely finish the education of economic management, and what you've finished, so you're the minister, who you've finished, and you haven't finished, and who's going to lecture on this economic management, I know the names that will teach, I know the colleges, I won't even write the most books on the medical economy in Croatia, and that's pure London, laundry, Stipe laundry, no laundry, money. Don't do it, don't put it in the law. Don't put it in the law, it'll draw you on. I gave you a few examples because I'm convinced it's not your fault, but they're pulling you on. Don't make it into the law. Who's gonna do that? University of Zagreb Juraj Dobrila in Pula, Split. What are you going to put on one? Well, don't! What you're done with, me. I finished Harvard ok. Your management at JFK and... No, you're not a résumé. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's good. It's within the law that we want it to be an abortion, but it's also an appeal to conscience. It must be in the law, it must be respected, not educated. When I left the Department of Health, every other director was an economist. Well, every other director was an economist. Well, that's the easiest. Right? You put an economist on it, make him go to medical school for six months. Some new minister will come and say these economists must be doctors. We can't be everything. So, a lot of crowds from the team you named, they fabricate you, just go step, two, three on the door on Xavier, and you'll see who's febrating you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118101	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Stephen Nikola Bartulic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118102	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister. It's been nine and a half night. We're still here. There are very important topics, and I would have started with this if I had not expected this debate to turn to this extent into a debate on abortion, a call for conscience, and so on. Apparently, the recent US Supreme Court decision has caused great anxiety. Once again, I can only conclude that the future is clear. However, here in Croatia we have a lot of delusions. So, I congratulate my colleagues I will remain as clear and loud as a doctor defending the call of conscience. I see here the reasons for concern, in fact, he's opposed to this important institute which is actually one fundamental right of every man, not just a doctor, but every man as such. However, I would like to repeat what I said earlier in the replica of the Prime Minister. So, when I criticise the health management model as such, it's not about the level of treatment or the work of staff from the nurses on. We saw in the pandemic that almost impossible conditions carried out difficult tasks, and we can be proud of that. However, in this model, the management system as such cannot be proud and we must ultimately be very concerned about how the taxpayers' money and all those who finance the system is made available. I'm going to remind myself of living in Croatia for 30 years. I hear more often among people that health care, that it must be free, that it must be free. So people still believe these fairy tales, and we know that even 30 billion kunas are not enough for the needs of the system. So if it was free it would be zero, it wasn't even 30 billion enough. I mentioned the number of private health institutions in Croatia. It's no accident they're nothing, there's more of them. It's not an accident because of the state of public health. There are more than 1100 from a few years ago, and that number is growing. So that's not surprising. However, what I must say clearly and loudly again is that the practice of getting appliances, expensive equipment, and similar differences vary greatly between private and public. So it's no accident that where there's a public abuse of public money, then it's divided unfortunately overhand, and the devices cost twice as much. We know that, it's a practice for years in Croatia, it doesn't change. In addition, I would say that it is unsustainable that we as a country are covering scholarships to future doctors, dentists, other experts not only in medicine, and that these same people, young people who finish their studies with a degree in the pocket, have no obligation to Croatia. So they don't even know how much this education costs, and unfortunately because of the state of the system, many choose their way abroad. So, if these amounts were to be included in Croatia, Croatia would make a huge contribution to the various EU budgets. Why? Because schools of finished people, excellent experts, young people who go out then because unfortunately in the environment we have a situation that we can earn three or four times more than here, regardless of the increased wages, the environment is such and the attack is great to leave Croatia, and they have no obligation to the country that has allowed that education. That's principle. So this isn't about attacks on you personally, it's just about what I see. So how many times do some citizens call me and ask for intervention, because I just can't get in line out of despair. So no one can convince me from my own experience that this system is conceived for so-called. ordinary little people. It's not. If you do not have a personal relationship and you know the doctors in the department, you will not get adequate attention and care. So it's fairy tales. It's fairy tales! As for these reasons for recalling, I would refer to some of the things from this pandemic and the lessons we must learn. I think it is justified to say that the government had too much confidence in the structures in Brussels. So, this joint procurement so-called. It's going to cost us a lot of money together. counterpart Maric mentioned 19 million doses earlier, a very large number of these doses will eventually be discarded. You've calculated for sure that every child will also be vaccinated perhaps 2, 3, 4 times obviously parents have no interest in it, and now it is, the question is where we're going and what we're going to do with it. I'm the one who's been asking questions about it. We are always referred to web sites in Brussels but I think the Croatian public has the right to know more about how to decide and how much money will be spent. SMS procurement as Ursula von der Leyen leads it, does not pour confidence and I think we can and must learn lessons from that experience. I don't think the Brussels officials are first of all interested in Croatian patients but are more engaged in various lobbies, interest groups and the like. I think it's inconclusive, we all see it, and we have to learn it so it doesn't happen again. In the end, I would say that the Homeland Movement is very critical of the work of Minister Beros and we will continue to be so. But I'm going to do it again with the gynecologists. We heard about 60% of them calling for a conscience about the abortion procedure. It's not an accident, it's not an ordinary, ordinary procedure although many try to show it that way. Every doctor, every doctor has a job to do with it will tell me he has two patients ahead of him. And now the question is, what's going on with the other patient? Not with a pregnant woman, but with another patient, what's going on? Why are we surprised that such numbers are being called to their conscience and do not want to do so? I think we should draw that line and say that it must remain an unquestioned category and reject all these pressures that persist on doctors and never become a condition for specialization, at all. I'm going to say another personal experience, a lot of gynecologists who are older are complaining to me when they're looking back at their careers, doing abortions before they couldn't appeal to their consciences, they had no choice, they were forced into totalitarian regimes, and now they're complaining. They're very sorry about that, but they had no choice. It's something that belongs to totalitarian regimes. Force someone to kill an unborn child or any human being against their will. And here it's showing up as some kind of progress, as something that needs to be secured. That's what all of us have to worry about. So, Minister, respected Minister Beroš here we have heard several times about system failures, once again I will appeal to introduce in Croatia a practice to run systems managers, health managers who are trained to do so. We have a situation where specialists, doctors, specialists deal with economic problems, solve economic, economic problems daily, which is not their narrow profession and specialty or have the skills to do so. And that's why we're around a lot. HZZO in an artificial way imposes amounts that hospitals can charge for certain procedures that are far from the real price and we must rotate then within a circle. We all know it's a vicious circle. Until a market mechanism is introduced, I have to say as much as it bothers some, a market mechanism in the system in order to rationalise expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118103	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, an honorary representative of Anka Dark Taritash will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118104	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, of course behind fellow Bartulica, something quite different. In Croatia, abortion is allowed by law. This law is quite old but for its time it was very advanced and today it works even though it should be modernised. The Constitutional Court confirmed both of these facts. He said that the abortion is in accordance with the Constitution and that the law needs to be modernised, but that the abortion with us is legal doesn't mean that it's available to everyone. Massive complaints of conscience in hospitals have limited women's exercise of this law of guaranteed law. For months now, to be completely honest, I've been waiting a little less than three months for Minister Beros's response to the number of gynecologists with a conscience call in our hospitals. The council sent him an orderly rush, but the answer isn't coming. I don't know if it's because he can't get the data or worse because he doesn't want to show it to the public. It wouldn't be surprising if he didn't want to show them because we all know, and that's confirmed by the data that the press has been able to get through the years that the numbers are alarming. In large hospitals, some major hospitals, to be honest, abortion is not done at all because all gynecologists are in the call of conscience. In one hospital of five gynecology specialists, everyone is already in the call of conscience before they specialize. And to be clear in Croatia, the appeal of conscience is allowed. And while that's the case, it's the right doctor. And while I'm at it, I respect it, but what I don't respect and for which there is no understanding is that these two rights have been brought into conflict with one another and then one of those rights, and in this case, women who need health care are denied their right. I have no understanding of it, and I will never have an understanding. So, with many women, it is very difficult and almost impossible to exercise their right to the constitution, which allows them the law, and there is the responsibility of Minister Beros because the information about the appeal of conscience either does not exist or does not hide it or does not want to deliver it, and whatever it is that cannot be tolerated because it shows that it has no control over the system, that things are done in a place of one's own accord or worse, if this is true then it's okay, if it's okay or worse to deliberately support the mocking of the law and the constitution, to be influenced by anyone who knows who knows who and what patients are cutting off for medical procedures. Whatever I'm saying, it can't happen, but it can't be tolerated. The right to abortion is part of the achievement of women's equality in society together with participation in the labour market, the elimination of pay gaps between women and men, the free approach to education and the fight against violence against women. I can freely say that the right to abortion along with other listed rights is part of our common path towards free, open and democratic societies. This means that those who deny it to someone contrary to their own laws and to the constitution of law deny the exercise of women’s or civil rights. Those who do so do not belong in certain positions or in ministerial positions, whether because of their incompetence or on purpose or with the plan. It's enough to make any more excuses and excuses for anyone. A woman has the right to decide about herself and her body, not hide under a stone while someone else tells her what to do. My colleagues and colleagues, those times are over. Neither Prime Minister Plenkovic nor Minister Beros nor Director Corusic and certainly not the Church, nor the street have any right to make decisions instead of women, to salt their minds, hold lectures and moralize them. We don't need Donald Trump in Croatia, and we don't need his Supreme Court to make it difficult for us to have access to the abortion. We have at this point a minister who doesn't control the system and lets everyone do what they want, and he either doesn't know or doesn't want to make sure the business is organised properly. And if there's something to go for, that's why he needs to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118105	Thank you. We are on our way to individual debates and will be the first to speak to the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118106	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. I don't know how much power I can do in five minutes what I intend to do, but I'm not a doctor often a patient I'd like to be as little as possible and participate in the clear services provided by the health system in Croatia, so I'm still going to be able to end up in metrication looking back at what I can, which as a politician and advocate, I've been following for many years. In this proposal that we have said at the HDZ Club that I would refer to at three points for the resignation of Minister Beros. First of all, the point relating to the pandemic, I am absolutely convinced that Croatia, that the government, that the headquarters, primarily the health minister, was absolutely in accordance with the constitution, in accordance with the law and in operational terms, acted well in the fight against the covid-19 epidemic. The largest health crisis in mankind's history has certainly been in place since modern health care that both Croatia and the world met in early 2020. I believe that we in Croatia knew how to preserve the life and health of our citizens at the same time we knew how to preserve the economy and business activities and preserve jobs. That's what the data says about how we are in 2020. While we were not yet familiar with the nature of the disease as we were dealing with ourselves, as we also went to a difficult lockdown, closure and economy, that is why we came up with our GDP, but during that year we launched measures that allowed us to grow second to second in line in the EU and that we managed to preserve jobs and manage to preserve the Croatian economy. It is true, I agree with everyone who talks about the mortality rate, it should be well worked out, but the fact that the countries are surrounded by the first 12 states of the 11th, we and our neighbours, we are 8th and Slovenia, there is Latvia, there is also Hungary, so there are also numerous other countries. Therefore, to seek resignation for the conduct and conduct of the Minister of Health in the pandemic, I am not at this end, nor are there arguments in this handbook that would point us to the need to change the Minister of Health. The second thing that relates to the termination of pregnancy, we held a discussion two months ago in the HS on the basis of the SDP bill proposal. We then claimed that this law was below the quality of the law passed at the time of the Socialist Republic of Croatia 44 years ago and that this law did not fulfil what the Constitutional Court said, which is that it does not prescribe educational measures, that it does not prescribe preventive measures, that it does not solve what he was brought into debate, which is the issue of resolving the problem of late pregnancy. And the third thing to read from it is that termination of pregnancy is actually a rule rather than an exception, and it's practically a substitute for birth control measures, that's what we said. But this debate that speaks of the need to include in the constitution the right to the privacy of a woman in my opinion is unnecessary. In fact, the constitutional court has shown itself about this, he said the existing law is in line with the constitution. I do not see in Croatia among the mainstream political parties who in particular decide to amend the constitutions of such a tendency that would go towards, to the ban, to ban the termination of pregnancy, and on the other hand, to open topics that may be further shared by society in this very sensitive situation, and here at the HDZ Club, we have made it clear about such a proposal coming from the SDP and other left parties in HS. And the third thing, I don't have enough time, it's about health care reform, I guess I'll say something about it through the replica. I know when you, Mr. Ostojić, whom I appreciate your minister, yours, our ministry had about 21 million kunas, today it's 30 billion kunas, about 29 billion kunas, health care every year asking for 10% more funding, the question is whether with this kind of separation where we are the smallest in Europe we can meet the demands that we put here in the assembly... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118107	Thank you, thank you very much. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118108	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, you are actually in your replica before you came forward and mentioned by all these allegations that are actually highlighted in these 8 points in this proposal remains possibly what we can discuss mortality. However, when we talk about covid mortality, I think it would be good, and today nobody really mentioned that we are commenting on one fact, and that is the question of the comparison of mortality, so how they are done, they should be done on the basis of comparative data, which is therefore identical, but we know that different countries not only of the EU but also around the world have different ways in which they actually process these data, some take only death and... Covid PCR test, some antigen test, etc., so at this point I think there are still no actually unified ways if we are looking at the level of the whole world or the EU, and on the basis of which death is determined, therefore, that argument which is obviously the only remaining opposition here today is definitely falling into the water. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118109	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118110	I'd like to thank my colleague, Habian. I think that the Croatian health system is primarily doctors, nurses, all health care professionals that are best able to respond to the challenge set before us by the covida-19 epidemic and I think that the best possible service has been provided to Croatian citizens, the government has provided enough vaccines for all Croatian citizens, there have been strong, relatively strong anti-vaxer movements that have been reported in many parts of Croatia where, as a rule, older people have suffered because their children have not in some way educated them about the need, about the need for vaccination. I already talked about this once from the experience of doctors who had just acted and were in numerous Croatian KBCs where they talked about the accident that took place on the one hand, and on the other hand, as said today by the minister average Croatian citizen, the average age of 76. which are generally and have certain Health problems [[Intruder: Thank you]] and the entire system should be examined [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you]] and the whole of Europe on the death rate assessment. [[/Intruder: Dear, thank you very much, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118111	Uh, we'll stay till morning if everyone's out of time like that. Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118112	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Bačić, we have already had the opportunity here today to hear from colleague Ostojić that in fact we have excellent doctors who are working and pioneering in medicine and that these things should be proud and said in favor and that Minister Beros is doing his job well in the ministry, that doctors are indeed creating such conditions that they can also specialize, but that they also have such equipment that they can do such procedures. I'd just point out that it's for example. in Zagreb KBC transplanted both lung, treatment for chronic back pain was applied without, without an iverter, I can't say it now, it doesn't matter. Also in the Rijeka KBC successfully without cardiac surgery, the closed fracture of the heart muscle barrier resulting from a heart attack is all in the interest of the system having very good success.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118113	Thank you, thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118114	Thank you. My colleague Jelkovac, I would like doctors to tell me what the purpose of the health reform in Croatia is to reduce costs or provide the most quality service. I follow, for three 10-years actively following events, I would really like to know what the purpose of the reform is, if these are cost reductions, it automatically pulls out a worse health service, and I said given the nature of providing health services annually, at least that's what the earlier ministers say somewhere because of improving the quality of service provision, new equipment, new medicines, smart medicines 10% increase health costs in the world, and so on in Croatia. The question is whether or not we with medical contributions are following such needs and I would like to reach a consensus... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118115	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118116	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague Bačić, at the very beginning, spoke about pandemics and measures to preserve jobs, I would point out once again that more than 12 billion kunas were spent on this purpose, that more than 800,000 jobs were saved and over 126 thousand employers received assistance, but the cost of health care of the pandemic needed to be spent more than 5 billion kunas. Health care costs related to the migrant crisis, etc., are also financed, all the time discussed and named by both the government and Minister Beros. However, at the very end, you mentioned the necessary health reform that we do not escape from, so I would ask for your brief opinion on what it is necessary to do in the coming period?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118117	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118118	Well, I'm not in the position of Minister for... I said earlier that it is necessary to find a model with the means provided by Croatian citizens in the state budget that will enable the best and most appropriate healthcare on the one hand and on the other hand that participants in the health system are satisfied. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when we talk about this pleasure, I have to point out, I don't know if it's already been said that in the mandate of these governments, the two governments are getting paid, the average health salary is 42%. I believe that it is not yet what doctors in other Western countries can achieve, it is far below that, but in any case is one step to continue. And in that sense, I believe that health care reform should be of the three important settings in my account.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118119	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118120	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, I think this debate shows me that it's kind of a little bit, but it's justified that we still point out that everything that's written here isn't exactly the way they imagined it and that I don't know why someone here is trying to do the same thing a year ago because I don't think I know how much you really need it. To believe in the way we're asked to turn around and say, "Now we're going to change our minister because what's really going on here is that." I know that this is a difficult portfolio, and I don't really remember whether in any government, the minister has determined the entire mandate, any minister, any government, health, health, health care and social care from the beginning to the end, but this is how it is written and said it's just like it says, and they know it's not like that, and to convince us that we need a hand for it. Is this really making sense? It's been a year and a second time. And all those reports [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's never enough. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118121	Thank you, dear representative Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118122	I thank my colleague, Boric, for a time we have suffered during the debates that we are not defending the minister enough, that we do not have enough arguments, that we do not believe in what is probably written. And on the other hand, here's when I look at this left-hand side of the assembly, how much of the proposings are convinced that what they wrote is right, right, and that it's best to say that of the 32 applicants of these 4 is at this point in the assembly. Here, in this way, if someone really believed what he wrote and that in the first time he asked for the minister's resignation then I guess this part of the assembly would be burning with replicas, there would be all of them, all 32 of them, and other than Mr. Ostojic, Mrs. Raukar, Mrs. Bencic and Mrs. Peovic, there are no 28 other promoters here in the assembly. And then they tell us we don't have enough arguments and we're not interested in defending the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118123	Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Rajko Ostojic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118124	Mr. Bačić knows very well that Ursula von der Leyen is a gynecologist, probably some of you don't know, 5 children are born, 2 adopted and then mutti Angela Merkel, and she was her deputy on the page, hugged a few 10 years ago, and she said, "Listen, Ursula the Germans are in trouble, we need to have a baby and you be the health minister." Smart Ursula says listen, what Boric says I'll last a year, two days, I'm done. She says you know I would, but it's an anecdote, an anecdote it's true, she says I'd still be the secretary of defense and so she survived. She was the secretary of defense, and today she's where she is. That's true. The Minister of Health in the 21st century if you don't want good to your people, it's not a job to do, but there are those of us who want good to our people. So, I fought mostly with Linic, which makes sense because I told him a hundred times, I'm the Minister of Health, and I'm not the Minister of Finance of the Health System. That's number one. And second not least, the problem that can be solved with money is not the problem. My friend has problems that can't be solved with money... If you're short on the state of money, and listen, there's a World Bank of the IMF, but a problem that can't be solved by money is a problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why Bačić, well, here I am today in the debate, so they got a little angry with seeing my colleagues, let's not pack, he told Tito Tudjman what he didn't need, and neither did Berosha. Each founder is the owner, each county and the City of Zagreb is responsible for its hospital. The responsible ones have to do it including the hospital, he has to organize the network, but they're responsible, they have to do it. The prime minister called me today that our salary grew, that I nodded his head, I nodded, but I don't know that 42%, I'm going to check it, I don't know, I don't know, it grew a) due to the basic contract, b) collective border and c) most important because of the tax reform made by Zdravko Maric, but it doesn't apply to all people. I don't go on duty, I don't write overtime, I don't mess around with satin, I have a naked pay in college, I'm naked at KBC, I'm gonna go on my property card and I'm gonna see how much my salary has grown. I admit a lot, 42% doubt. But a lot, a lot, most of all governments, but I doubt 42%. Probably those who work overtime, but that's not a naked salary, naked pay is a naked salary. I mean, so statistics, Habian don't stats please, is that 16,000, 15.100 every human life is worth, don't do that, you're a serious man. Every man here died by someone, dida, uncle, friend, and don't do that. 192 countries of world health and all have the same methods, not methodology but method, and let's not play with statistics, at least I'm scientific by works and quotes and a lot more academic Reiner and he knows if he's not going and I know if one and the other statistical method, the fourth, the fifth will work so let's say something statistically significant. But here no, don't play with people's lives, everybody's worth it, and we don't play. We've listed exactly what it says in Eurohealth, Eurohealth... What Branko does, two men put this hospital together this Dado Milinovic and I, connect the hospitals one county one hospital. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I put three together in Varazdin. Isn't that right, Habian? The new Marof, the Klenovnik, still exists today. Then came the minister after me of HDZ, who re-separated Gradiška and Slavonski Brod, Pakrac and Požega. Sandra just said that to Bencic. You know what they did it for? Because that mayor of Pakrac, he was then a parliamentary representative, and today, who knows where, HDZ of course. He lacked money for utility fees, for wages were recorded not in Gradišca but in Slavonski Brod. And God's people! So how about lower? How about lower? And that's where I'll always brag. Well, today, I'm going to be the former mayor of the carlova County. Maya was with me, mayor of vucic. I think he had three, four terms of HDZ that he said I was born in Ogulin, my children, but I won't let my grandchildren be born here, be born in Karlovac. Ogulin – Karlovac is 15, 20 minutes. Now you're gonna be born in Ogulin unless you need to? Connect the hospitals,... When I listen to what the minister says, I listen to my words, but it's been 10 years, Minister. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It wasn't me, I don't think you'd copy from me, it's just a good practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118125	Thank you. We have one replica. Stay a minute. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118126	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Ostojić, I agree with you. Every life is equally valuable and that it is one. But the fact is, I ask you to explain to me that out of 12 countries there are 11 of them in our neighbourhood including Croatia and Slovenia and Hungary and Latvia and Estonia and Slovakia. How come not everyone in these Central European countries or the policies of these governments were such that in one... The space of the most dead. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's something else I guess, you as a doctor I suppose you could give the best answer to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118127	Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118128	There's a lot of things. I don't have a problem, Bartulica's gone, just before he commended me. But I think what he's attacking and MOST's and I don't know which of those 19 million vaccines is just not fair, it's not fair. I don't have any problem with that. You had to order them. I'd order the same if I were you. Have you thought about Croatians in Croatia, you thought about Croats in BiH, you thought about other citizens of BiH or some of our... I don't have a problem with that, some of our... [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] I don't have a problem with that and those drugs you bought five percent success. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But 5% saves lives. And when it comes to the head, that's 5%, five human lives are in there. So I don't have a problem with that. There were certain specificities, but it's such a big subject, Mr. Bacic. We can do it on the sidelines of the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118129	She will now speak to a respected representative, Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118130	Okay, I'd like to answer some of the things we've heard here. Let's start with the covid statistics. We can even consider what you've put out here as an argument, so it's a different account so we can't take this information that we're the eighth, ninth in the world by the number of deaths. How does it count differently? Then we're looking for an argument. How? Okay. if it counts differently as to how it counts and what we can get as an argument. You can't just say it counts differently like you said to a colleague of the Habian. How? What does that mean? So that's not an argument. Secondly, what counterpart Bacic said means unnecessary debate on the inclusion of abortions in the Constitution. It is also suggested by Prime Minister Plenkovic. Okay, it's groundless. You won't lift that right. What is the problem with returning the article of the Constitution that was once in the Constitution? If you won't lift no problem, return the article of the Constitution. So that's what you're up for. But there's a problem, and that's why you won't return that article to the Constitution. And I'm also going to answer, I don't know who was talking about it, maybe you, colleague Ostojic. It means what's going on here. It means the 1990s when this article is the Constitution of the so-called Constitution. The Christmas Constitution casts out this article of the Constitution on the right of every person to freely decide on the birth of a child then the attack on reproductive rights begins, when that article moves, then attacks on reproductive rights move. Until then, there's no assault on reproductive rights. So you're not going to return that article to the Constitution because there are attacks on reproductive rights and you're just waiting for a favourable atmosphere for an ultra-right coalition partner to appear as a possibility of a crash to calculate with it. So you're being dishonest to your voters. Two-thirds of your voters, so two-thirds is for women's right to choose. And that's why we're gonna insist on that article. The right of a woman to choose freedom means that she is free to decide on the birth of a child and that the state has an obligation to ensure this right. It means the article of the Constitution that became in 1974, which remained in many, means the post of Yugoslav countries, and so in Slovenia where the abortion is going. There is going to be an abortion because in Slovenia it is not a threat. It's a real threat to us. I'd still like to list some things that kind of deny you, so watch this. So why should double practice be abolished? Why the privatisation of health care is obviously a problem for you, too. So Minister Beros is in one, deny me if I'm wrong, and the press wrote about it in a version of the Health Protection Act introduced Article 156a. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. where a healthcare professional is not allowed to establish a health institution or a company carrying out a medical activity or other legal person in the field of activity in which a healthcare professional is employed, or in the field of activity related to the business of the activity in which he is employed. That article lasted two days. After pressure from various lobbies, journalists claim the article was thrown out of that version of the law. So you recognize that the problem in dual work, work means doctors in the public sector at the same time in the private sector. But you're not brave enough not to kneel under the pressure of a lobby. I'm not saying it's easy, but it's the minister's job. It's the minister's job to defend the weakest, to defend the social working majority, not to agree to lobbying pressures. That's why we're going with a change that goes in this direction of the Health Protection Act to eliminate double practice. Otherwise, in even, with even, means we have as many as 44 hospitals and 49 health homes in Croatia HHHZO must negotiate additional services with private people. Is that normal? So over 460 million kunas are spent annually on contracts with private people. The basic thing is to protect public health means not to do this outsourcing that damages public health. There's a double practice to be abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118131	Dear representative Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118132	Thank you. So I would also like to ask how this relativeization of mortality from Covid happened. More than 16,000 people died in Croatia, but even more important information is that 51 to 52,000 people died regularly in Croatia in 2019 before that, and in 2021, the year in which we have the vaccine, I remind you, 66,000 people died. So, relativating that tragedy that happened to us is rude and it's very inconsistencies and insolent to all those families that have lost someone, Mr. Habian. That's unfortunately so. So don't relativize those deaths, they happened and, yes, it's the responsibility of the leaders in the health system that we didn't deal better with the pandemic, it's the responsibility of the leaders why they trusted the warriors of the light by Facebook not to vaccinate instead of believing in you. ... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118133	Thank you very much. Thank you. Dear representative Peovic, I don't know what will be answered because the replica was sent to a colleague who didn't speak, but if you have a need to tell... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118134	You don't have to worry, I have, I have something to add to this, a very important note. So to show this insensitivity that's being introduced into this debate about the number of dead in Covid, let's imagine that for days a bus of people died more and without need. Every day, one bus. Maybe it's plastic, maybe it's easier to understand, in one period, it means 500 people a month more than it was dying in the pre-corona period. That's unacceptable. So I don't know how that interpretation can be interpreted, so elsewhere counts differently, there's no calculation that could tell us why it is, is it, and there was a lot of resistance and everything is standing, but it's not a good result, is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118135	Dear Representative Krstulović Opara.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118136	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, our colleague said in her statement that a woman's right to abortion was expelled from the Constitution. I'm curious to know which constitution it was thrown out of, be precise. I was a parliamentary representative on December 22, 1990, when the Christmas Constitution was passed, not so-called. The Christmas Constitution, rather than the Christmas Constitution, in which the Art. 21st century 1 clearly stands, every human being has the right to live. Since then, for the last 32 years, it hasn't changed, nothing's been thrown out. Please explain what it is, do you want to answer this question?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118137	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118138	Yeah. So this is the Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Croatia which we brought in 1974, which was also the basis, meaning for the Christmas Constitution where one of the creators of the Constitution testified that it was the right of the woman to abortion disappeared from Krk to Zagreb on the order of Kaptol and it is totally unacceptable, and the article of the Constitution you quote, read how the sentence ends. Right to life. Protecting life. The next sentence is no death sentence. So it is very clearly suggested that it is the right mature and adult person to live and protect life, so it has absolutely nothing to do with what we're saying here. So the right to abortion, the right to abortion remains in all the constitutions of the former Socialist republics of Yugoslavia, and that right should have remained in the Constitution of Croatia and if you think there are no problems about it, then return that article.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118139	Thank you. Dear representative of the Voice. Comrade Oprah, please don't. We'll come to the '45 Constitution, please don't. Dear MPs, the Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118140	My colleagues Peović, you and the Workers' Front have been pushing for many years for women's right to choose, for free decision on the birth of children to enter the Constitution, and perhaps for all of us, that constitution has been somewhere far and far away. But now that we see what happened in the U.S., it's quite clear that it's necessary. Why? Because when we look at the argument of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court in America where Ruth Ginsburg was in fact very clearly warning that the decision on the basis of which the decision stems from the right to abortion is on thin ground precisely because the right to abortion stems from the right to privacy, which is why we also have to strengthen this right. just by entering the Constitution this way. [[Thank you. Dear...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118141	...representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118142	Yeah, thanks for bringing that up. It is a real initiative of the Workers' Front for which, I don't know, I can't stress enough times how glad I am that it was accepted in the progressive opposition and I don't think the Workers' Front itself could bring up that fight, and I'm almost sure we'll be collecting signatures together in the referendum and actually return the right to abortion in the Constitution, which is one of the nos, I'd say the truly bigger wins of the nominal left, left-wing in Croatia. And as for the right to abortion and what exists means somewhere in our constitution and what is often meant to be reinterpreted means already it is in the constitution, it is very important that it is distanced from the right to privacy, the right to personality, etc. from the right to abortion and it will be one of the truly greater victories of this initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118143	Thank you. Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118144	Dear colleagues, we agree on a lot of things, but as a doctor, I would still explain to you why neither I nor many of my colleagues agree to ban, completely prohibiting dual labor. So, if you in your public health system do your job fairly on the condition that you know the norms that are still unknown, but I guarantee you that especially in smaller hospitals, the vast majority of doctors are doing their job in a way that works on 3 to 5 jobs, 3 million overtime hours are done annually, so if your work is done fairly and consciously within working hours, and not leaving before then it makes sense to leave the possibility to fill in and the needs in the private sector that you will not exist, the public health system unfortunately cannot swallow all the needs at this point, the doctor is missing and if we go to that strict ban on this double work people will be leaving you even more. I'm really telling you what fellow doctors say, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118145	Thank you. Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118146	Thank you so much for that question. It's really and very important to clarify because, of course, it's like the very convincing argument states, but a lot of doctors are going to leave and leave because they're getting low wages. A few things are important here, the first medical salaries or medical salaries are much more than media pay, and even more than 57% of healthcare workers have paid more than the median, and that means you have to count both health technical staff and nurses so that medical salaries are well above average. Another thing, there is trying in some way and Beros tries, Minister Beros, excuse me, trying to solve, means that certain groups are in some way limited in that right, but beware it's not fair, it's also not fair, why the director and head of the clinic can't, and some other worker can work double. You have the same laws. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118147	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118148	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here it has been a little over a year since the previous attempt and instigation of the matter of confidence of Minister Berosch, the last time it ended with 75 votes against, 57 for and one abstention. When the minister became a minister 81 vote for, 43 against, I can assume what will be Friday 77 votes against and of course some range of 35 to 50 and something that will require it to happen and I think that everyone from their corners sees what is served here as a proposal and that we are trying to discuss it here, but I will try this honestly because this story of abortions is so simply told as a victory over something that will be a victory of some progressive power not respecting emotions and what people are going through and everything that happens in these processes, when you go through it within your own family rope and wider, in a circle of your own friends, talking about victory just so simply without any other look at me is difficult, I don't even want about this point here the first which is written as the greatest sin of the minister explained on almost three sides of Mrs. I haven't said a word in public, I'm experiencing it quite differently because if we're just regular robots here who are discussing in some way that we don't have any emotion and talk about winning just so lightly about some real I really have a problem and I don't want to, but I'm going to talk about some other points that are written here today in the opening disaster in the explanation when we talk about what was written in the Monday 2012-2015, there were some other problems, and there's really something that we can find that there are some problems in health, we've had in the past 10, 20, 30 years, here's the Minister of Health in that government in 2012-2015, we've had problems, we've changed since then I think here are 5 ministers in 10 years, Mr. Ostojić, so there was Varga, so there was Nakic, so there was Mr. Kujundzic, now Mr. Beros, the average of 2 years. if we're going to watch it statistically no. What it says is that we have a system, tens of thousands of employees and 100 thousand patients of daily activity, and they're asking that the system works at every opportunity, and I think we've been trying this, here when Minister Beros came in early 2020. Before the start of the pandemic, which is also burdened by it, when you put a man on the burden of 15,000 certain deaths, and we put it as a reason, so let's put it on yourself a little bit, so let's see what it looks like, can you wear it as a man to yourself that you're responsible for some death of all, not one, two, three, five, 15 thousand, so that's gonna tell me, and you and your system, we're not part of the system, with all the politics that's been going on here in this conference, don't get vaccinated, don't need it, it's all suck, we've heard a lot of, so it's retirring, so the argument between... The only policy I've ever seen was to insist exactly on what the Minister says, science and what we can provide as a system. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've had a number of reports about it, and they've caused debates and they've been sought, and now we've all calmed down a little bit, but there's again in that same pandemic, and there's more to it, and we see today, a lot of people are infected, and they're not all going through the same thing, but they're putting it all on the back of the minister, and it's all your fault, just you and no one else or here we write in the past 14 years. HZO gave it that much and that much money, but we blame you for the last one, it's your fault. What about those 14 years ago? Nothing. Why just you? I remember there was no opposition we had ever filed as opposition MPs, and 10 ministers left or for political relations within the then coalition or for some sins, they left. And these mantras that are constantly individuals or ministers here in a year twice and yet another impelation, three times we seek responsibility that means that a man in a term of office will try to be recalled five or six times. Is that normal? How will we repeat our actions and seek the same responsibility? the same result behind the same procedure. It's always the same, and it's going to be the same again on Friday, but here we are talking, the evening is, everyone's happy, we've all taken something out of ourselves some frustration and of course we find a man needs a visit. When we say the criteria for you they say "catch," no, no, it's not worth it to us. Same criteria...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118149	Thank you. Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118150	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear colleague Boric. Yes, when we recap this entire debate now, then we see that all that is being put on the burden of the minister of covid crisis, and we know well that the government and the ministry have ensured that the system is working, that we have the vaccine as soon as possible, that everyone is allowed to choose which vaccine will be vaccinated and is now placed on its burden that the population is not vaccinated enough. Well, we can't force anyone, unless we introduce a mandatory vaccination for which no one was. All of what we talked about today during this whole debate leads to the conclusion that all these intense requests for impeachment actually arise as one expression of the opposition's impotence and one of their attempts to become visible. That's what it looks like to me, so I'm asking you to tell me what you think about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118151	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118152	What do I think? It seems to me that no one has succeeded through what is written here and through this debate today that I should raise my hand against the minister who is sitting here on Friday, in no way at all. I really don't see the argument. We tried to warn them that if they applied these criteria to the area where they take care of the citizens, which is the city of Zagreb they say is the ketch. Some criteria apply to you, but not to the others. If you apply the criteria to us, I do not know the responsibilities and effectiveness in any area where they are competent, they do not know that. It reminds me of some time former, formerly when these criteria also existed, there were neither responsibility nor efficiency, nothing, who cares, not just for you, not for us. That's why I'm saying this has nothing to do with what's written here being denied. I think we spoke very probably, very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118153	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118154	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague, Boric, you were saying that this was all served to us as a proposal. I must express my bitterness by reading under point 7 suspicious transplants full name and last name of two academics, people who are recognizable in the foreign, professional and scientific public, thanks to which KBC Zagreb becomes one of the leading centres for education of experts from Europe, who have improved the profession and in neighbouring countries, who have introduced new techniques in the profession. I ask you if they wouldn't accidentally let God leave the Republic of Croatia would the same opposition that wrote this be attributed to it by Minister Berosha, this government and HDZ or would we be the ones who are responsible for such experts leaving the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118155	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118156	Thank you, colleague. I listened to the debate right in that part of Mr. Ostojic when he was a minister we didn't exactly agree on some situations, he was often in the assembly, he defended what he thought, and also his masterplan which he should have continued and the next one didn't exactly continue, changed... it was all let's just say so really, but we never asked for your recall, because of it or because of something. I'm saying, we didn't deal with it, but they... Yes, but the ministers are gone. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And if we're talking about a transplant, and I think Mr. Ostojić made it clear that I have nothing more to add. I agree with Mr. Ostojić on everything he said at that point 7, and as soon as he says it's no good another argument less that I need to raise my hand against Minister Beros.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118157	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118158	Here's my colleague Boric, so since your colleague Martinchev started this debate, so tell me that you're here with common sense explaining the fact that after these two cases of suspicious transplants that are suspicious, and now I'm going to tell you why, because you have a kidney transplant from a living donor coming from Kosovo, who is a baker and has six children, doesn't speak a good Croatian language, and his translator is the recipient of the one who receives the kidney. It is evident and it is known that they are not related and there are no altruistic reasons. After Mercury turned them down, Mercury refused, Rebro does. After these two transplants, the whole program was stopped from living donors because it was evident that there were doubts about organ trafficking. So how do you explain this situation when you're so keenly defending people who were competent to make sure that something like this doesn't happen and how can you even defend it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118159	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118160	And I'm referring you to my colleague Ostojić's debate, and then you're arguing, I say from your point of view, in the sense that you know everything and that everything is exactly what you said. So you're the word of the truth or the source of truth, and whatever you're saying is that and that's exactly how you drew it, and you're serving it here for us. I'm looking beyond you, it's you. All this interesting stuff, there's something you wrote and that's it. [[Intruder Reiner: Don't from the bench of your colleague Bencic please.]] I said I disagreed with that, I have the right to disagree and the man who was the minister, who works in the health system today, said nicely when we talk about this area let's be careful because we're questioning other things. I understand that, too. I don't need a policy to compete here politically and take, I don't know what, a point of some, what, a percentage more in the poll or a percentage less, what, what? That's what this is about. Leave it to you that you are the truth that needs to be kept in mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118161	Thank you. Honorable representative of the coat of arms, Bhujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118162	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Boric. I'll be a health worker, not from Zagreb, but I have to notice something. As a healthcare worker, I am worried about the garbage in the city of Zagreb. And you know why? Not because they think that's what I'm saying right now, but because rats go into the trash, and rats go to rats, as transmitters of infectious diseases. Isn't that a danger to the health of the citizens of Zagreb?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118163	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118164	Thank you very much. About the cleanliness system in the city of Zagreb today I said everything in my replica. A simple operation, you see a bucket, you empty it in a truck, a truck takes it to a dump that's still open by the laws of the Republic of Croatia, even though it's questionable whether it should be, empty what you picked up, cover it with the ground, or take some other material, and you took care of the waste. We're not allowed to do that on Rab. We live in a state, unfortunately that has different... We have to take everything to the waste management center. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The city of Zagreb is gone and the question is when they will have it. The city of Zagreb today has a lot of garbage and is no longer a communal problem of waste disposal, water supply or firing pipes, traffic, etc. The main problem, the municipal problem of the city of Zagreb, is Mr. Tomašević, Mr. Benčić, Kekin, Mrs. Raukar and those who exercise power. They become the main communal problem of this city because there is no The solution. [[Intruder: Dear representative...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118165	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was brought up by a respected representative of Peovic, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118166	238 is injured. Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, you're not talking about the subject at all, and I guess for the 20th time, you're back on the subject that's not the subject of this debate, but you know what I'm interested in? You are interested and concerned about the garbage in Zagreb, but you are not interested or concerned about the unethical kidney transplant and you claim that it is a matter of opinion, anyone may have an opinion on whether it was ethical or not ethical, so make an argument that it was no problem at all No ethical problems were around [[Thank you very much. This one.]] transplants. [[Intruder: Fellows Peović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118167	Thank you. Well, first you stick to time, secondly, it was a replica, so you get a warning. Dear representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118168	Thank you. Dear fellow Boric says one song, but drop by drop and here's a waterfall, now full of hats, some know him well, I mean really at this time of health crisis. We've already had, what, 2, 3 times requests to raise the question of trust with Minister Beros and most of these things I've read here, it's unfounded and unfounded. To call the current minister, and you said yourself, for what you've been doing for 14 years, so certain searches of HZZO are being reconciled to a private delivery provider, now it's calling for me, and I think it's also the law that stands in the law, but whether it's logical in this whole situation to buy a PCT that I think is necessary, and instead of, linear accelerators that we don't have, or maybe some other necessary device for oncology and other even patients, I think here, we need to look back at these things. How much can he do?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118169	Just a minute. My colleague Kekin has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118170	He's been injured. 238. The MP insults common sense. So only in the time of Minister Berosa Poliklinica Medikol was paid 160, more than that, millions of kunas, and someone said today that I said that, I quoted Minister Kujundzic, a former minister who said it takes 60 million to buy these 4 CT devices, so that simple mathematics would leave you much more for what it takes if you didn't give us the Medikol.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118171	It was, of course, a replica as you know it and you get the warning, and now that Boric's colleague is going to answer the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118172	Thank you. Thank you. My colleague Blažević, you see what it looks like when you apply the criterion to another option and they don't like it and then they immediately look for the culprit who should be guilty of being bad or... and that they don't go, and that they can't, and that they don't know, but they're holding on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They stick to them, they won't leave power just like that, and the SDP is holding them there, it's becoming a growing sin and the question is how will the SDP react there because there's been a lot of topics about... Question. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They pretend to have no health care facilities they run with, we heard some remarks today. I don't know, we'd have a headmaster. Probably not, last year. I can't choose, in all these contests. But I can find a man, imagine bringing a man from Osijek to a public competition for purity, and he happens to have an SDP card, and he went to the competition and we tell you, but they were contests. Yeah, and then she says "Tesla" for you, if you need it, or compensation for that body, just call.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118173	Thank you very much. She's a colleague of Kekin's. I've re-arranged the breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: He drives it very well.]] What's the matter with Business?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118174	The Rules of Procedure in Art. 238, you are again offended by common sense. So when it is called that we have failed to find someone, I remind the ruling majority, for the third time you are canceling the SAFU principal's tender, your director ended up in prison together with the former minister, today your minister has escaped, you are really not in a position to tell us how we choose staff in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118175	Comrade Kekin, that's, that's this replica again, so you get a second warning. Honorable representative of the Voice and vice president of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118176	I'll fight my friend. You're saying you're the opposition, you haven't written a single recall request. Yes, you used the street as an opposition, gas bottles, chestnuts, that's how you brought down power. Secondly, I don't know how you imagine the job of us as opposition, that we're some kind of plant, that we're vegetating with sunlight here and there taking photosynthesis. [[Applause.]] Well, fellow Boric, among other things, it's our job to closely follow your every step and warn you, but when we write laws, you reject them. When we write hundreds of amendments, you reject them all without reading them. When we ask written parliamentary questions, the government doesn't answer after 3-4 months, and this ironing over what you have 77 hands and this isn't going to work out for us, I'll tell you one thing. For every minister we asked for, he stayed, but the moment we talked about him and discussed him, he was actually a future ex. That's how it's gonna be with this. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118177	I'm a colleague of Boric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118178	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118179	I'm sorry, we've got an injury to my colleague Jelkovac's Rules of Procedure before, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118180	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague of the Voice has injured Article 238. Rules of Procedure, you said we used street and gas bottles probably alluding to a protest by Croatian defenders. Well, Croatian defenders are not the street, they are the foundation of this Croatian state, which is why today and whose victims we today have the opportunity to sit in this Croatian Assembly. And please don't talk about it that way. And they had a serious reason to protest Remember, your minister wouldn't take them in. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118181	Thank you. We have this breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118182	Article 238 has been injured. In this way, every honor to protect all lives in Croatia and the victims who have given for this country, but gas bottles to endanger the citizens of the Republic of Croatia does not honor anyone and does not justify them being Croatian defenders. And it is not an honor for you to support such methods and for where the president of the future Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic and today's prime minister went there on the wings of that and such procedures to wire votes to win the election. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118183	It's also a replica and you get a second warning. Dear Representative, please not from the bench, Honorable Representative Fabianic, please. No, you don't yet have the answer, my colleague Fabianic raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[I've got an answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118184	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118185	A colleague, Fabianic, was a replica and you also get a warning, and now a colleague, Boric, will respond to the replica. ... Let's not get off the bench, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118186	Thank you very much, thank you very much to my colleague Glasovac, Prime Minister Milanovic, in relation to the defender and president of the state of Milanovic in relation to the defender in the same person, two different descriptions. What do we do now? Maybe he decorated many, and you say that the street, every day are decorated, I don't know exactly the name and last name, for me the defender, I the defender of the street it is, you can say it here and in this assembly where the people chose you to protect the interests and to respect the foundation of this country, it's those who created this state. that you say they're the street. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Well, the president of the state today has a different relationship and he learned something, you didn't, and we didn't ask you to be replaced even though you were the worst assistant minister replaced you by that same president then, and now the president of the country because you were bad. And I'm not gonna talk about the rest of the relationship. We sat here with popcorn and watched as he replaced his ministers, we couldn't stand this one. These... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] If you remember, they went after each other. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ten of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118187	My colleague Ostojić raised, thank you, thank you very much, my colleague Ostojić has raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118188	Do not pack up a colleague of my colleague this Voicer words that she did not say. She said street thinking of strike so-called. a strike that all directors of KBC's HDZ 3-4 years ago, these current two years haven't. She meant it. She used to, she said very specifically when you were saying... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118189	Please let's not come from the club, colleague Ostojić gets a warning because it was a replica, and please let's not from the bench. This one and this one, it's almost 11 o'clock in the evening, this one if you continue... No, no, no, I'll tell you now if you continue to abuse the Rules of Procedure's injuries I'll take a break from one hour this one well, we'll see what I'm concerned we can be here by morning if it pleases you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't know how much that makes sense, and I don't know how smart that is, but please, it's worth it to everyone. Don't abuse the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Andreja Maric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118190	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to look a little more at health reform here, but first I have to answer to my colleague Bačić, who, of course, isn't here, who counts how many of us are on this side, turns out to be more of us than you are here. So, some of us have been here since morning, since morning, we go to eat occasionally and to the bathroom like the minister was. Second thing, please don't interrupt me and get in. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] The second thing, we really did, as we did on behalf of the club, offer our Law on Pregnant Pregnancy in accordance with the instructions of the Constitution, the Constitutional Court, you refused, you haven't offered yours five years, you're afraid of your constituents, and please when you offer yours we'll talk on the same level. So, about the reform, you ministers remember the session of the Health Committee on April 15, 2021 when you said the motions for reform were on the table of prime ministers. We members of the Health Committee, at least we the opposition, have not so far received the necessary materials on the reform at several thematic sessions, but we manage with other channels. Here I also showed Prime Minister Plenkovic that if a printed presentation entitled "Proposed Health Reform", which I have obtained from those of whom I have received this courtesy, we have not received as members of the Health Committee. I asked you a question about the reform of 15.9.2021. I received an answer in January 2022, stating which steps were in the reform until 2030 all together so who lives, who dies by then. Because of the lack of reform, at least as many of us as the opposition know. I have asked a new question about waiting lists, fast-growing debts and reforms that have been carried out, which will continue to be carried out. Again in April 2022, I received a reply in June 2022 to the exact copy paste of what I was responsible for in January 2022. So obviously nothing new. KOHOM representatives gave you concrete proposals. Representatives of the Croatian Association of Employers, we from opposition, hospital doctors, emergency etc. The question of how much you respect them. Where's the cost of benefit analysis I've talked about many times. Put one kuna into primary and secondary prevention to save three to four kunas at higher levels. Remember the situation with diabetes. So almost $20 of the HZZO budget goes to treat diabetes. Of which 88% for treatment, or management of diabetes complications. Now let's do some of this health reform proposal you're offering. You say yourself that the system is financially unsustainable, that health costs are growing significantly more than GDP growth, that health consumption growth cannot be stopped in the long run, but health financing can be made more effective. In the period from 2014 to 2019, health costs in the Republic of Croatia increased significantly more than GDP growth on average by 2.25 percentage points, and in the EU other countries on average by 0.84 percentage points. Croatia is among the EU's countries with the smallest health leave. The EU averages 3197 euros, Croatia 930 euros. On the other hand, health recovery in 2021 is again your data that we have heard several times since 6.34 billion kuna. The continued rehabilitation of the Croatian health system since the '94 25 billion kuna. Continued health obligations on 30.11.2021 are accumulated. 5.2 billion kuna. Debts are now growing now 500 million kunas a month. Here, in this proposal for reform, you are saying that the unsustainable model of pricing services and restrictions is. So, low price service, insufficient amount of health care facilities, debt structure. So the amount is the new payment model after the execution. It's all okay. However, it should be carried out. Yeah? Mortality caused by some types of cancer and diabetes is increasing. As for disease prevention, preventive programs exist on paper. Too small is the response to screening programs. Breast 55 to 60%, colon 21%. Why don't you restart the screening program for uterus cancer? Why did you cancel, or your former minister, shut down the 72-hour program? You say yourself that the purpose of the reform is to do a health care system in which quality health care is available to everyone. The patient is in the center of the system, but don't forget the healthcare professionals. I said it is necessary to arrange the work privately, but not completely prohibit it. It's a 2030 time period. years, legal regulations, a series of laws and regulations, and we haven't brought any yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118191	Thank you. Dear representative Ban-Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118192	Dear colleagues in February of this year, Minister Beros met with hospital directors and found that he would reduce waiting lists. I believe you're up to it, so I'd like to have a good opinion on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118193	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118194	So waiting lists are a problem that there is not only of course in Croatia, but also in other countries. However, there are several items that need to be solved that have not yet been resolved in our existing system in order to reduce the waiting lists at all. So in the first row there must be transparency of the waiting list. Some steps have already been taken, at least with regard to certain matters regarding the transparency of the list, but not entirely. So we've had recently and on, not so long ago and in a committee session where you don't have transparency in, say, ordering for a magnetic resonance. You have a health care facility, even KBCs that aren't fully connected yet. So, ordering calendars that you mentioned something. Ministers, we expect results from that. So there are a number of items that the profession has offered. Certainly as much information as possible to reduce waiting lists, and about themselves, but good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118195	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118196	Dear MPs, you're talking about an untimely reform, and now that it's actually not enough communication with all stakeholders in health care. So, what would timely reform still bring to this country?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118197	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118198	So, of course, I'm always fair and correct in appearances, so on and so forth. We don't expect health reform to happen in two months. So certain steps must be taken, in a few years' time. However, things that can be done in the short term are not done. So, we had a meeting of the Health Committee where Secretary of State Bašić was. That's enough, so the stockholders from the health system, among other things, the doctors of family medicine. And here we are, and I've said a lot of things, too. So, we expect, and Secretary of State Bašić has promised to call on, say, family medical colleagues every month for a meeting and to grind the problem by problem. And if, in some short time, the minister doesn't listen because he's chattering, to get rid of 20 to 30 percent of his family medical colleagues from unnecessary administration. You've done a lot already. It doesn't take you eight years to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118199	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected MPs, Mr. Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118200	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I cannot address this individual debate, not the very beginning of the mandate of Minister Beroš, who was tied to the pandemic of the crown. We were talking about a new nema that we didn't know anything about at the time. But two and a half years later, we can lie to ourselves unconsciously and claim that the government did everything it could and that given the circumstances, we were successful. The truth is different. We didn't. But to be fair to the end, the situation was not good anywhere in the world and no one expected us to have a magic wand and no one expected us to have sick and dead, but ministers are in it as well as in everything else among the worst in the EU, but also in the world, and these ruthless statistics regardless of how you want to show them and the figures that compare us with others show the right situation and talk about the success of the work of Minister Beros. We are the third of all in the Union by the number of people vaccinated, behind us are only Romania and Bulgaria, otherwise unfortunately our usual society, why was this supposed to be this time, why? What we warned you in the late evenings from this pay phone, this is called a conference room, prepare a good vaccination propaganda, the moment the vaccines haven't been made yet, but nothing, you shook your hand like that and it's irrelevant. What's going on now? You are now announcing through the trial balloons of some unusual, chaotic and suspicious health reform and how we even believe in health reform when you were unable to do something that was the most important job for health care in your term, very simple, it was your job to vaccinate people. We can say that people have all kinds of excuses, the truth is many are unreasonable from these excuses, but where there was a system, where there was prevention, where there was education, where eventually there were some serious measures that would encourage people to be vaccinated. The situation is clear as day, too many people don't want to be vaccinated, and now there's nothing you can do. Is there anything you can do now to change, so you can't, we all know you can't get things out of hand. We can talk about what we want and the balance between measures and free life and the season that saved us both on a timely and adequate basis, but the results at the end of the day show the truth, and the truth is that we've been catastrophically bad at the most important part of the Corona job. What we are unfortunately at the top of the EU scale is the number of people who died per million, we are 3 out of 27, in front of us only Hungary and Bulgaria died and I have to say no matter how hard it sounds and hard it sounds when I say it, this poorly done job is measured by human lives. In the most important business of his term as Minister Beros has had the result of a pure disaster, we are at world level 8th in a row, so we have no high place in any other comparison of any other criteria. And what I want to point out again, we've been saying, we've been proposing, we've written petitions, we've written interpretations, we've written suggestions, we've warned that business isn't going well, that we're waiting for a fiasco with a vaccination, that it's dangerous, and that we have to be aware of it, and then what you're saying is, here's the opposition again, and here's the opposition something, something points out, there's something out there again that's like the children of yoguns, and now we have to be there by late night and now, here we are a little bit cold in this assembly because, so sometimes it's a little warm, so sometimes it's a little cold, so we have to be a long time. My colleagues and colleagues, they spoke, warned, told us where we'd come and exactly where we said we'd come and now the minister here for the third time sat down and neatly what was sitting with us then the man who put on the... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118201	Thank you. Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118202	Thank you. Dear colleagues Mrak-Taritash, I thank you on behalf of the opposition for reminding you of what we have been doing lately to warn of the insufficient activity of the government and the ministry and Minister Beros himself about the public vaccination action. One of those who had a big role in it again were family medicine doctors, so I'd like to ask you a few questions about them. We are witnessing that they are now given the task of being police officers, and they will still seem to be given the task of starting emergency medicine, although they specialize in family medicine, so I would ask you nicely to comment on the situation with family medicine doctors that the Ministry of Health is increasingly treating as a stepmom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118203	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118204	Thank you very much. So, the rulings are always prone to say that you see that opposition and I don't know what, which they would like now, which they would like us to just come to the vote and vote as you tell us, then maybe the opposition would be a good constructive opposition. I must say that the opposition is doing its job, and I would also like Minister Berosch to do his job. There are ministers, ministers who don't sit there, there are ministers who we think are doing well or at least work properly, and we don't even think about it, and we have no reason to ask them to sit here and, yes, question, and Minister Beros is now going into something called reform and what's the rescue solution to that reform, the doctors of family medicine, they can do anything, there's nothing they can't do, so they can sue their patients [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118205	The next replica is the respected representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118206	Dear colleagues, many controversy has sparked the state of hospitals that are part of the health reform, many leaders have rebelled precisely against these hospital mergers, saying it would violate the existing health system. I'm asking nicely for your opinion on the hospital merger, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118207	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118208	Thank you very much. This is one question you've asked is a difficult question and it's not simple, so let's be, I'm kind of trying to be correct in my answers and I'm trying to be honest. Let's ask if we have a country, there's not even 4 million of us, there's 3 million of us, and we have 30 or more hospitals, I don't have that information, so let's not say guilty, we can take the wrong number. Does our system, our system, our system of finance, therefore, general funding, suffer or suffer any other model? One minister who has an idea, who has a vision and who has political support, for this you have to have strong political support should come, clearly say what the idea is, clearly give the cost of benefit analysis which is good, which is not good, clearly say by what criteria and what way to do it and do the job if there is a political support behind it It's a tough, serious job for this whole thing. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118209	Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Rajko Ostojic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118210	My colleague, Mr. Taritash, has mentioned item six for a reason, and that's a pandemic. And of course the minister didn't do it, but he's responsible. Responsible as it would be, there is no Habiana, there is no Boric, but there is no Maja Grba Bujevic, but please Google Maja Grba Bojevic Bujević, what's his name, masks don't protect, Google, and listen, she said it on the air, she said it on the air, and then you wonder why the anti-vaxers of this flower. The woman said on the air, Dr. Maja Grba Bujevic. Why did he say that? Because there were no masks. What did Ivana Kekin just say? Because that's what the client ordered. There were no masks and no masks protecting us. And you can think, when the masks came, the masks were protecting. But the minister listened to Maja Grbu Bujevic... So he doesn't wear a watchmaker's mask and make love to the estred stars. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the problem. And then we wonder why people don't wear masks. Minister, whether you like it or not, that's how it is. That's right. It's just like that. And then this same Maya coat of arms, Bujevic, you googling the paramedics again, angry with the paramedics why they're not wearing masks. So in a year, three different statements. They don't protect, protect, those who don't wear masks should get fired. That's why point 6 is right here. Not to accuse anyone, but to point to inconsistency, double practice. There is no Mrs. Peović, 25 years of 12 laws, Ana Stavinić Rukavina and I, as a deputy, were the first to separate her, to separate her, to cheer or to work privately, but the constitutional court said, and then there were 5-6 private practices, said very clearly that, yes, but they invested a million or two euros or kunas let them go for another year, two, three, and we let them go for another year, two, three, the government changed, Sanader came, and that broke down naturally the Medikol scheme. Don't, it's over now. And some ministers have been doing private practices, even SDP's ministers, director of HZZO. And my colleague Beroš was a court expert while he was an assistant minister, and while he was deputy secretary of state he went to court. When I was a minister, I couldn't do anything but be in the ministry any honors or failure to do their job, including SDPs, HDZs or other ministers. Human resources, there's a lot of talk about it. Private health care facilities are now providing specialists with 20, 30,000 kuna. You know why? Because they gave them a big profit. Well, he's gonna give them 50, he's gonna give them 100,000 kunas, radiologists, radio therapists, he's gonna give them 100,000 kunas when his profits are 10-15 million kuna, and that's what we pay people, that's what we pay. We've trained them, paid them, and left our hospitals. It's something the minister simply has to stop, he has to stop. I think it's on the food, that's where we fed the monster, that's where somebody mentioned the nemano, the monster that's terrible. The impeachment, Boric, has no, of course no impeachment, did not seek recall when they organised the strike, organized NGOs, some associations of these doctors eventually had God, those same doctors they organised in the meantime went into impeachment, were passed by other parties, on the right, in particular the Most, the Homeland Movement and are now working with the same HDZ officials on the head, giving their private information to the newspapers, and they created them. That's what I said to the ministers, he says we're factory, so we can't fabricate anything, what I in opposition know is what's going on. Fabricated or speaking only let him walk on Xavier, one, two, three doors west, two, three doors south so he'll see who's ratting him out, who's writing against him... And who's talking about the competition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know that. And he knows, and he doesn't do anything about it. Blažević, lady of equipment procurement, but Mrs Blažević thanks to this monster today you have equipment for private facilities I don't have on Rebra. You understand me, it's a tragedy. That was the case in 2011. So the equipment must also be in the private or must be on the Rebr, in Vinograd, Mercury does not matter, organ transplant, don't do it Klasnić footballer, gets 4-5 kidneys, from which he plays in Germany, he gets a kidney in Croatia third and fourth. I have patients with transplanted liver two of them who were born with a transplanted liver, first I went to Face '95. then was Defence Minister Gojko Sušak, and she was Colonel of the Croatian Army that's got the liver [[Intruder: Thank you.]] He's got three kids today. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118211	We have, we have two replicas. First respected representative... Bujević. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118212	Mayan, where's your mask?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118213	Dear Professor, I'm very surprised by your reaction. You're a smart man and in the context of time talking about masks today, now I'm going to teach you this something, even though you were my professor and my minister. [[/Intruder: Why?]] So, the day before it was announced that they didn't need masks, the World Health Organization said, took over our epidemiologists. And the other thing was then we had 7 infected in the Republic of Croatia who we followed the trail to tell everyone that they were wearing masks that we all knew would wait for us one day certainly didn't depend on whether they were there or not, but there was no reason to introduce them. And that's what you'll do when you've had a little fun and compared the time with me. Here, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118214	Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118215	Majo, my colleague Rasudiæ is there great, he starts every debate in context that you bought from him, and I have written at least a dozen strategies and 50 scientific papers that I do not write in introduction, I write contextual framework, meaning not context but contextual, contextual... Because then there was no vote, but you're a doctor, you know that mask protects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is, you were speaking against the foundation of medicine. It's a problem, against the foundation of medicine, the mask protects, the mask prevents the spread of infection, prevents entry, all of what you said a few months later So I'm telling you, I'm sorry, that's what I said, and don't make so many promises for the name of God, Immunologically this, in a year, it's not going to work, it's not going to change the two regulations that he's talking about, let alone make an immunological institute, God forbid it will. [[Intruder: It is not disputed.]] I just want to say watch out for Google, watch out for statements, make sure he doesn't kill you, someone said a strong word.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118216	Stay, stay is still a respected representative of Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118217	Thank you, professor, I really can agree with you in some segments of what you've been talking about, but I'm going back to reform because I have postcovid syndrome, I don't hear well, so I couldn't react when you were talking about health reform. I think we'll agree that joining hospitals isn't the only health reform. There's a lot to go on, but here's the mention of the town of Pakrac, and I'll tell you where the mayor is now I'm the mayor there. And in 2013, it wasn't just because of the communal fee as you said, we've always spoken in a way and I really think that there must be some kind of Punctual integration in a certain way. [[Intruder: Congratulations.]] But there were a number of these things, only 0.002% was the share of the papal hospital in the ministry's current budget, the development of secondary, higher education. In Pacrac, so here's what we can talk about later. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118218	Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118219	I didn't know you were mayor, congratulations on your function, but my colleague Kekin said in a great opening lecture you were on antidiabetics, so cytostatics, that's the key, united public procurement. What the minister started three months ago, not three years ago. His predecessor hadn't made it in five years, and he started it. That's why I even said the other day that he started doing this just six months ago maybe he wouldn't even sign the recall. But it's too late. It's too late. It's getting late. As we need to change the law on abortion, not that the first-degree commission lasts for 8 days, but 8 hours to say the decision goes abortion, not an abortion, we live in the 21st century, zoom-a-zoom conference. You're the mayor, as long as you had a college with zoo heads, you had hundreds, right, he became your tool. So and this ad hoc, you talk to whoever you want in Sidney, New York, Brisbane, wherever you want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118220	Honored representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118221	Thank you very much. In health care, our regular work with patients needs teamwork, as well as in the management of the health system. I've already said the minister can't do it all alone, of course it's not easy for me, but the question is how strong his team is in the ministry. Is there a better open, fully open hand by the prime minister in this vision of the application of the health system? As far as I'm concerned, there are several close associates of yours who are truly individually willing to help and are meeting, but the overall system is a terrible trom and slow. Just until one problem is solved, one memo passes weeks and months. The minister says the reform working groups have done their job, agreeing that the necessary changes will be implemented. Most of all in the media are heard from family medical doctors, they speak from the Croatian chamber doctor, from HUBOL, the voice and nurses are heard, the patient association. Aren't they all important stakeholders whose grudges and their solutions should be respected? We from the Assembly Committee on Health and Social Policy have specifically called on a number of thematic sessions related to health care, reform, individual diseases, laws, say the Road Safety Act, we have defined problems, we have offered solutions. I've already said it, and I really don't object to it as opposition board members, we haven't received the necessary materials like that presentation I showed you, as much as we're told that we'd be discussing it now if the legal proposal isn't over yet. So if it's a thematic session, then I guess we should get all the necessary materials and all the suggestions from the ministry, not get them who knows what channels. The failure of the insurance system, we have 315,000 more insurance than the population in the Republic of Croatia. When's that gonna work out? Don't worry about the young people, you know how much I deal with the topic of health trainees, there are a number of irregularities on the ground, thank you for showing ministers, we talked earlier, a good will to finally send an additional memo that there are no more irregularities. And another important problem for the minister, communication. First you communicate with the media, I suppose, to justify yourself and to inform you that you are working, and then you communicate with those who are concerned and of course you are then dissatisfied and family doctors, they do not want to attend a meeting that was supposed to be a working meeting, a round table turns out, and then a month ago at one of the the thematic sessions of the Health Committee, the secretary of state promised that once a month, meetings with family doctors would be held to solve the problem. Are there any of those meetings? I guess not. You've already been able to solve at least a part of the problem a few times, let's just say what I mentioned to a colleague in the replica, to remove 20 to 30% of all the excess administrations, for that you really don't need years. Bad communication about systematic examinations, was not elaborated, came out in the media, of course, that prevention is, but concrete and meaningful, to whom, as often as there will be financing, who will implement them. It was only June 1st that the first working group meeting was held. Increase response to screening programs, return work detection of carcinoma door uterus. Hubol has made it clear to you for hospital doctors that there is a need for natural control of work, but also personnel norms. We're all working on several workshops. Working in the patient department doesn't count, i.e. don't get into the statistics. We've all had enough overtime. The annual three million overtime hours are done. Well, that's gotta hold. Without him, the health system wouldn't have survived. Waiting lists for polyclinical activities will otherwise increase further. At the same time, of course, directors are punished because there are too many overtimees. The labour law says its own, then attach changes to the Labour Act on the matter. I was already saying that there is a need to arrange the work in private – publicly, not completely banned, but to arrange for order to know who and who has to do what. Of course there's pressure from stakeholders and lobbys. The question is, do you have the strength to get rid of them? With regard to the reform of emergency medical care, the helicopter emergency service, the benefits of emergency work, antiquated rolling stock, the sanitary transport at half the hospital and within the health care home, half is part of the emergency. When's that gonna work out? That's what we expect. About family medicine, we've really read a lot in the media. We will now have a round table on Friday, not a thematic session because colleagues were against the the thematic session. Will you respond to the Health Care Act and all that the doctors of family medicine offer? So, we're missing, and we're being guarded by doctors and nurses. Work on low health literacy, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118222	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118223	Thank you, counselor. You pay a lot of attention, so communication. We know that due to the covid crisis, this communication was extremely important. So, as far as your opinion is concerned, the politicized headquarters, actually contributed to the sad and great resistance and anti-vaxer movement later.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118224	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118225	Well, look, we talked a lot about it. Of course at the beginning when you're still, we didn't even know what we were wrestling with, what kind of pandemic we were actually facing. It was normal to support everything the Joint Chief's been doing. However, when it was realized that there were indeed mistakes that we had warned about and that were repeatedly repeated from bad communication, from double standards, etc. Then trust got lost. So that's where the fuck was in communication. So it's not just the National Station about communication to the health system. I can say that and indeed there were memos from the Ministry to, say, hospital health institutions, but your colleagues in family medicine found out so many things from the media that they were going to vaccinate something, that this would, that it would. So in many items, especially as regards pandemics, the vaccination itself, the organization was found out from the media, was not well communicated. Some things have been done, but a lot of things haven't been good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118226	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118227	Dear colleagues, you often mention the arrangement of the health system. I would like to know how much the health system's regulation can help improve the system if the doctor's work is arranged privately and in the public system. Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118228	So, the doctor is definitely too small and in primary health care, not only are family doctors lacking both primary gynecologists and pediatricians. We can also talk about the hospital system, the lack of nurses, etc. So our health care system as it can't actually supply the needs of all our citizens. We all work together in the public health system, it's a lot of overtime. But indeed, most of us do our job as it belongs, but there is always a weed in every grain. Is that right? I've already said that neither I nor we in the SDP are against full labour bans, dual labor, but there has to be an order. I've already talked about it before, that you know exactly how many norms you've done, that you respect your hours, that you don't abuse your system, that you examine your patient in private, and then put him past all the waiting lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118229	Thank you. The next one will be spoken by the esteemed representative Damir Habian, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118230	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what usually happens when we discuss initiatives and opposition proposals have collected the required number of signatures, so here we hear their arguments all day long. I will try this proposal which was submitted by the opposition to see really as a lawyer and that is what I tried and in my replica in the introduction when I rephrase exactly what I mentioned to my colleague Kekin. So this is a proposal for a vote of no confidence we can view as both a submission and a lawsuit, or a claim, or if you really want to, given that you listed here in the eight-point proposal as some kind of indictment, however, it should have certain facts. So the facts are not disputed that you listed inside, but it would be what is desirable and what you definitely miss is that they are to be supported by evidence. There's no evidence of that. As hard as you've worked here today, and the best thing that shows is exactly what the proposer was saying here, a colleague of Kekin who actually didn't touch those eight points of the indictment or the proposal or the lawsuit in the 20 opening minutes. You were talking about something else entirely. You talked about the analysis of the health system, you gave an ex department lecture which I am not an expert on health care can be that it was quality, that it pointed to certain problems that certainly exist in the Croatian health system. No one escapes from it, but it is certainly not a crime and it is not the fault of Mr. Beros what you said. The other thing is what you listed in a written proposal that you didn't say anything about. So, what we can conclude, and especially if you have a proposal from the Proposer, you as an opposition. On the other hand, you have a government statement that is even more extensive and detailed than your proposal. And if you look and try to be objective, so each of us is definitely subjective here, has a side, has a position. However, if you try and be objective and look at your allegations, if you look at the government's obvious, then I would expect you to make your proposal if you at least withdraw anything else. And again, what I said about it suggests that in your opening address today, you haven't spoken in a single word about those eight points. You were talking about something else, and it's certainly not an accident. You were surprised, that is, when I spoke in my replica and mentioned the city of Zagreb which is very disturbing to you today and where you said there was no content in my replica, I expected you to return to your proposal, that you would try to deny it. By the end of this debate, however, almost half the 12 of them have failed. And why are we talking about the city and why were we talking about the city of Zagreb? We were talking about the city of Zagreb because we're talking about the way you do it, let's say the modus operanda and those double criteria and the double standards that you apply. So here in the Croatian Parliament when you talk about the Croatian government and where you speak, you have one criteria that you apply, and then you have other criteria when you speak from the position of the government in the city of Zagreb. In doing so, you forget all these criteria and all these deities and so on. the values you are referring to. And that is the hypocrisy we point to, and therefore there was a good example of the city of Zagreb. I could mention getting the town of Varazdin out of which I come from where your colleagues are in power, from "Be a city" or your coalition or friendly party in the town of Varazdin, which you supported in last year's, past local elections where you took pictures with them, supported them. And mention their examples of direct conflicts of interest where, as city councilmen now vote in favour of their interests in the City Council of the City of Varazdin, some decisions about the re-use of land pass. Ask around if you've lost contact. I can send you the material to remind you. When I was talking about facts, then, since I come from the third constituency, I'm going to take this opportunity to say some of the things that have been done for the term of Minister Beros and which I think should be mentioned. They relate to Varazdin County and to investments in the health system in Varazdin County. So, in the mandate of Minister Beros at the General Hospital of Varazdin, the project is under way to build a daily hospital of 30 million kuna, the emergency hospital reception of 15 million kuna, the investment of construction and equipment of the building of the central operating block 325 million kuna, the energy reconstruction of the Varazdin spa 160 million kuna, the rehabilitation centre for people with diseases and spinal cord damages of 125 million kuna, etc. etc. So that's what's obviously bothering you. This is just an example of Varazdin County, and there are countless examples in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118231	Thank you. Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118232	Dear Representative Habib, I find you to be an extremely clever representative of what you prove on a daily basis. However, the rolling of the eyes I saw today after my replica is truly inappropriate to that of my conviction. And now I'm going to tell you a few more facts about the Varazdin Hospital. So we know and we're protecting our hospital, but we're also at risk today of losing our status just so that this general hospital of Varazdin becomes county because we stayed as a result of the loss of personnel on only one infector. Then, the united hospital reception does not have a contract with HZZO, which means that the salaries received are illegal. So, there are problems, you shouldn't be ashamed of them. We're here to solve them together, not roll our eyes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118233	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118234	Thank you very much. I'm really sorry if you noticed that rolling my eyes was definitely not connected to you. I'm over the crown, I don't know if it's some post-covid syndrome, maybe it's about that. But it definitely wouldn't be directed at you. Since you're coming from the SDP, and since you've mentioned here now investment in a health care facility in the area of the Varazdin County, but in general I would remind you, and you obviously forgot, for example, a debt in health at the time of the government in which the SDP was participated by the current president of the state, it grew by 71 billion kuna. I'll remind you of the total value of all highways built in the state is 61 billion kuna. Therefore, in the four years of Milanovic's term, you managed to make in the SDP over the value of all highways or the value of 18 Peljev Bridges. So you might want to think about it before calling the HDZ government here now what you did at a time when you had your minister of health or health.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118235	Honorable representative Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118236	I fully understand your insistence, your interpretation and the defence of the minister from your party. But the Croatian public today, like this assembly, heard all the arguments followed by figures very clearly and precisely, concrete examples. It took 20 minutes plus all that time replica and it's inexplicable and it's something that stands and you know it very well. As far as the city of Zagreb is concerned, it is not clear to me after years of holding the ladder for Milan Bandić that you have something to talk about Zagreb at all. I don't really understand human beings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118237	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118238	Thank you very much. So here I am only interested in the moment when you will stop calling someone before for your own failure in the city of Zagreb, which is now a year and a few months ago. The same modus operanda was applied in the city of Varazdin. It's always someone in the past, from the past, who always frames you and, in fact, it's obviously about your incompetence, and it's good to sometimes start by looking at everything that you've been told in all these replicas today, and it's about the city of Zagreb why it's like that. Is there anything wrong with the deceased? Or is there something wrong with you?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118239	Dear representative Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118240	Thank you. So, aside from those who mention the city of Zagreb, it seems to me that I should have gathered HDZ people who stayed confused by not simply reading that proposal. You leave the impression that you are not competent to deal with someone prepared in this House. But you're a specific guy, that's what you said yourself, so I'm wondering how you explain this part that was in the proposal and you could read it and prepare it, and I'd ask you to be a little more than that flossula about the perfect balance of private and public, that we've paid off a billion kuna to Medikol only in the last 30 months more than 160 for searches that could be provided by buying a machine for 60 million kuna? How do you explain that during the SDP government, Medikol almost went bankrupt, and here during the HDZ government, it is once again incredibly prosperous? Please refrain from qualifications on how in Zagreb we are unable to answer that question specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118241	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118242	Thank you very much. Here I will answer your question specifically, and I will point you to Article 44. The health care law that speaks very clearly to you and prescribes that health care as a public service can be carried out both within and outside the framework. Therefore, the question arises whether there is necessary and more necessary equipment to be obtained, and there is no private sector to ensure that the service is also provided to Croatian citizens or that, based on the positive rules of colleague Kekin, the ministry uses what the law allows. Therefore, Article 44 of the existing law. A combination of public and private and I really don't see what the problem is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118243	Dear fellow Matula, what's the matter with you, Comrade Matula, you want to shout from the bench, what's wrong with you? This esteemed representative, Dreven Buddinski. [[It's late, it's late.]] This way, colleague Dark Taritash gets a warning and colleague Matula gets a warning. Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118244	Thank you, Vice President. I would look back on this health reform, their article this proposal 8 that there is no health reform, that it is a disaster in the health system and that there are debts accumulated, and then on the other hand it says that when a health reform is carried out, then this system will be this seat that the movement of the feather wants to take away the county, the heads of the county's property and founding rights and we all know that when something is good, then here are the hospital directors, and if something is wrong then the minister is guilty. And we know the minister doesn't decide that the hospital director is responsible for how one hospital works.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118245	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118246	Thank you, dear Vice President. I agree with you, colleague Dreven Buddinski, I think it's too short these minutes, and I don't think even the minister actually had the full opportunity to answer the question that all of us here, regardless of the political option, which is what the necessary, necessary health reform should be brought. I am sure that what we heard in the short lines will indeed be achieved in the next period no matter what someone here resented, which means that by 2030 we will wait for some steps, but I think we must be serious and aware of the complexity of the system itself. And I think what's being drawn up in this fundamental procedure here today is definitely said that good foundations have been laid and I believe that indeed this minister whom we will refuse this proposal on Friday and thus show confidence must continue to do his job for the benefit of all patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118247	On behalf of the promoter, she will now speak to the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118248	Comrade Habib, I will address you because I am going right behind you, first your basic thesis that our submission would be like a lawsuit and that you see it as a lawyer so that to see what illegalities are listed is so missed that it surprises me that you even said that because you would as a lawyer, and of course we had the basics of politics and sociology etc. In this Faculty of Law and constitutional law, they should surely know that there is a big difference between political and legal responsibility. And that the issue of expressing trust or mistrust is a matter of political responsibility. We don't have to give evidence here because this isn't criminal proceedings, it's not criminal proceedings. This is the process of determining political responsibility for the damage caused by certain policies, public policies that we disagree with. Okay? Secondly, your big exhibition about Zagreb as well as the whole of today's playbook that you brought here around Zagreb. It makes me happy because I understand that you can't get over that Zagreb you didn't get, which is even harder to get over the way you're going to lose Split because it's going to be 70:30, it's going to be like the citizens telling you don't even come to the next election here. And then it hurts, I get it. Two of the largest cities, total, total loss in the elections, and of course you focus on proving that in a year we haven't done something that you haven't done in 30 years in all of Croatia. You want some junk? You want a water line? You want railroads? You want some other traffic? Whatever I'm going to say here, you haven't taken this country down at national level in 30 years, but we're supposed to sort it all out in a year. We want to talk about what the county is like where you are because the city of Zagreb has the office of county, where you have been in power for 20-30 years? Let's go through the development index or underdevelopment. The most underdeveloped counties of the first 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 with the highest, lowest Virovitica-Podravska HDZ index are in power all the time, Sisak-Moslavina HDZ, Vukovar-Srijem HDZ, Lika-senjska HDZ, Bjelovar-Bilogorska HDZ, Brod-Posavina HDZ, you have a 100% score, 100% score. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118249	Please, first of all, please don't come from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118250	Is it, is it now, is, a year, so a year, so I'm telling you that when you look at the development indexes, the lowest indices of urban development, the municipalities, and even the county are where HDZ is, prevalently in power in the last 30 years, it would say where your foot steps down that grass doesn't grow. And then when we offer arguments why political responsibility, when we say Medikol, when we say the results of the pandemic, when we say the issue of reform that is still not available because none of the stakeholders of the key that should be implemented it agrees with it, when we say that, in recent weeks, the media has been full of news of suspected kidney transplants, so our task of transplantation has made one of the biggest steps in the world, we know and succeed, because there is no problem only that someone in the hospital has made a procedural mistake because it is not procedural, the problem is that those doubts that are really justified because when the first Merkur hospital refused to do so, when it told the KBC and they still make it, and they know that they have a man who doesn't understand the Croatian, and their organ recipient, the man who has six children and bakers from Kosovo, and now came to someone who has a kidney because he's here he felt God's calling. And so the problem is that the minister reacted to it in a way that he said maybe there were some procedural errors.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118251	Thank you. The next debate will be honored by Urshe Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fellow Members and colleagues of the subject, which unfortunately is rarely referred to in this assembly, must be a subject which should be discussed and which should be primarily discussed and acted by health minister Willi Beroš, is a subject of mental health. We bear witness that Croatia does not have a mental health strategy from 2016; unfortunately, it has not lived in most of its objectives, but it is unforgivable that there is no new one to this day. In the term of office of Minister Beroša, so 2.5. A new strategy is being announced, and here it is, and now, just a little while longer, here it is, but there is no strategy, so there is no, and mental health problems are rising, numbers are growing. In December, the Minister himself found that one of the main consequences of the covida-19 epidemic with cancer would be mental health problems. It is known that only depression in the overall population will be the second leading cause of global disease burdens by 2030. The 2020 data suggests that a group of mental disorders according to the number of hospitalizations participated with about 6% in the cruel hospital improvement in Croatia. The maximum number of hospitalizations is between 20 and 59 years old. which puts this diagnostic group into the leading causes of the hospital’s improvement of the working-active population. Mental disorders are also the leading group on the day of hospital treatment with 20%, and what data are only available for 2022 after 2.5g. Covida-19 epidemics better not even know. Every day in Croatia, two people are killed on average, which is a growing statistics level of around 700 people, which is the data that would require the urgent development of a special strategy to combat suicides that has never been made in Croatia, nor has the slightest intention of accessing such a strategy been shown. So mental health problems aren't even the last holes to be played by these governments and Health Minister William Berosh, sometimes something is mentioned as a budget debate, and that's all. Many are the reasons for the recall of William Berosh, but I feel that care for mental health problems is one of the key reasons. The Minister of Health's task is to take care of the crucial problems of his resistor, and mental health should be at the centre of every responsible health minister's focus. Nothing has been done to deinstitutionalise the system, nothing since the establishment of a co-ordinated network of services in the community involving community treatment, short-term hospitalisation in hospitals, and the direction of finance towards community services, and worst of all, nothing has been done on the necessary destigmatisation. The problems of mental health are still a shame, they are still hiding, they still have no real support when faced with a problem of mental illness that affects not only the patients but the destruction of the entire family and the community, for me it is certainly one of the main reasons for leaving Willy Berosh because he failed to devote at least 5 minutes of his ministerial mandate to those who are left behind, who are alone, who are without the support of the community and without real support and care of the health system and in the name of all those who suffer from mental health problems, because of all doctors who are unsuccessfully struggling to improve the system, on behalf of all families who suffer and suffer in conflict with mental diseases behind closed doors of their homes. I invite you ministers to leave your place to someone who will finally begin active care about mental health problems, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118253	Honorable representative William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118254	I would like to thank the chairman, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. Here's the third time in such a late hour when it happened the first time and when you were warned about finding moral powers within yourself at the time those numbers weren't so creepy, that you stopped at the time and that you told the prime minister exactly why I was first responsible for the patients you were now talking about in that reform about the quality of your relationship with patients, that you said then because you had already had experience, you saw what was happening to you in Dubrava, you didn't remove the principal there, so there they had to, but in the worst trouble of the doctors, nurses, workers, health workers themselves had to fight with the help of the media, you didn't do any of it there. After you were forced from politics and forced into that balance which is completely understandable between the economy, but also between mass deaths and mass diseases when you had no power significantly earlier because of some political reasons to close and bring that first lockdown back to time than you've let go, so there was another one, and then there was your local, your, your, this, local, election of local organisations, all of which was a reason, without speaking in those 5 waves, the terrible waves of death in which they were coming, but interestingly, you were defended here by a fellow doctor, Vice President Reiner, but only the lawyers of Bačić Club President said, not Mr. Bačić's lawyer, okay and Mr. Habian, who is a lawyer. I'm glad that Mr. Habian gave up his preparations as they analyzed and how you agreed to attack that submission, but yet you no longer relativated these nearly 16 grand, because it's almost on the edge, it's only 9 people less than 16 thousand victims, that in that way you entered into the methods and the methodology that didn't occur to the minister, it didn't occur to anyone, but you went to relativize it, and terriblely devastating data, completely losing, but complete confidence in these 2.5 years. colleagues' professions, not to mention that patients have long since had that confidence and that all together at the end when, and that, it tells you about the structure that you ministers respect. When Corusic set out with his public outbursts unimaginable in the case of Cavide, so remember what they were like about euthanasia, completely inadmissible, the man who is second in the commission and you of course say that you can't do anything, you can't replace him, he's holding the KBC Rebro so that all of a sudden the data that is completely and then your colleagues are defending it and saying no, no, no, it's not true, it's all too obvious, the man has done the man and the translations to him is you and here these and the commission says that it is so, inconceivable, but you know that he in the hierarchy you can't, he should have been the minister that he didn't have those impossible cases that he made with, with the ovary and everything. Minister Beroš, finally find that moral force in you and take political professional responsibility, resign irrevocably.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118255	The next one will speak to the esteemed representative Erik Fabianic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118256	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. And in public I said that this debate is groundless, that unfortunately it is just a waste of time and oxygen for something where we could devote time to those other mountains of problems that Croatia has because in this way we will not solve anything because and after this debate we will not be any smarter, nor will our health be better independent than who the minister is, but before I sign something in general I love and read and who my colleague Ostojić said the text of the reasoning is guilty, intent is good, but the text of reasoning is guilty. But we've heard a lot of rhetorical figures today and demagogy and parabola and the fullness of human exercise there's a book about it, so whoever wants to practice some exercise. The nights are late, we didn't expect another time, but the fact is, as bright as I can see the fog in the entire hall because we still need to know how some system works especially if we want to or if we were and if we're responsible people. So, I've already said on other occasions the Chavayda case is not only the responsibility of Minister Beros, but rather. There is a responsibility, above all, to those institutions where the lady originally turned. Now tell me when you already know the system, and I've had the opportunity to be president of the Board of Directors of a hospital facility. So whose responsibility is it for certain hospitals? Whoever it is, the board of directors and directors. Whoever sets up the director of the county hospitals and the city of Zagreb should count freely. The mayor or mayor is careful with the KBC, or the state hospital is not setting up a minister, the government puts on a proposal by the minister. And if we have an objection to conscience in certain hospitals, it depends solely on the policy of the hospital itself and on how much the founder of that hospital can impose a certain policy of institutions which, by law, corresponds in its business. Is it the same everywhere? It's not. She was mentioned before the word KBC. The word KBC is under the ministry, so under the Republic of Croatia, we have no problem with complaints of conscience. We have a County Hospital in Pula, and we have no problem objecting to our conscience. In some county hospitals there is a problem with objecting to conscience as well as some other state hospitals that are here in Zagreb. Well, those are the things that are decisive. Who adopts the Labour, Labour Systematization, Ethics Code, Stimulation Regulation? The board of directors, not even the director. The director has to do it. Now I'm talking about the technical and technological issue, the rest of the question is purely political will. The Medical case is 14 years old. There's the same case in the previous recall. But the Medical case is unfortunately what the situation is. The only thing that makes sense to me in this text of reasoning is the health reform. But my explanation is each other, which is that the Ministry of Health at the head of Minister Beroshe is not realising and not working on the HDZ government programme. It is clear to me that the pandemic could not have reduced the waiting list, according to the HDZ government programme. But the issue of helicopter service, and above all, human resources planning has not been done.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118257	Thank you. The next debate will be respected representatives of Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118258	I'd like to thank my fellow MPs and MPs. Here I will thank the Minister for staying patiently this time until relatively late nights as in previous times when we used to discuss and up to four in the morning. Whatever I think of the Minister and the complete HDZ, I appreciate this sort of thing, and I think you'll all agree with me if I say that none of us should be told and it doesn't serve us the honor of actually humiliating each other through these late night discussions. But it's not our fault that these topics are being pushed into an inappropriate captainate for here's the integrity of the parliamentary debates. It is up to HDZ and to whoever manages the agenda topics. In essence, why all this talk about trust, why impelation? Because the opposition, but here's what rulings can't understand. The opposition essentially represents that part of the Croatian public, that part of the citizens, that part of the voters asking for Croatia to change, that the system changes. Because this is the system, and that is how health guarantees our citizens and does not provide them with those services that are in the Constitution and in the laws. On the other hand, the present minister represents the other and political but also an interest group that simply defends itself by wanting to keep busy positions. Here are the two Croatians who are in constant conflict and conflict. And I'd like to tell the minister that all these initiatives that concern him specifically are not really against him, all of these discussions are actually directed against the prime minister himself. These days, the same prime minister boasts the measure of freezing energy prices and presents himself as a guarantee of stability, as someone who actually shares some charity with citizens, and in fact it is the prime minister who has kept all of Croatia frozen, prevented from implementing any reforms and reforms in the health system for the past six years. And it's not that it guarantees or gives citizens anything. This actually keeps them in a position that all those services that are overpaid because of any corruption affairs, but also because of the poor organisation of the state to those same citizens and beyond and beyond, are not available. The problem is that the ministerial functions are not attended by people with visions, such is not chosen by Plenkovic. I, here present Minister William Beros, recognize all his qualifications regarding the health itself, believe that in that sense he is competent, but in some political space before becoming a minister. It is about the person who was anonymous to the general public, who had no idea of his own or political weight, because the most important feature for Andrej Plenkovic when he made up his cabinet is that the people who would never be shadowed by the same Plenkovic, the fact that the prime minister is not shadowed for every minister in Plenkovic's government are the most important attributes, and the more the individual minister by the opposition is attacked and thus threatened by Plenkovic, the fact that he is a little bit late in the night, here we are at midnight, the minister and sorry for not even someone who is a member of the HDZ, and even someone who is a minister of whom I really don't have a good opinion, doesn't deserve to serve as a thunderstone, everything corrupt, that I don't even say to the malignant that Andrej Plenkovic in his essence representsness, so much thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118259	Honorable representative and vice president of Sabina Vosovac's assembly, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118260	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. The responsibility of every health minister, including this one, is to manage and provide such a health care system that will be at the service of end-users, which are patients. Where is this minister's responsibility? Because the health system's out of control. How else to comment on the fact that in the last few months the health system generates a 400 million kuna debt from month to month, it's called getting out of control. Secondly, throughout the covid pandemic when they are narrowed in some way by providing health care services to the price, the cost of drugs rising rapidly, it's called getting out of control. Thirdly, we never found out, and I don't know when we're going to find out how many unused doses of vaccines are left and who's responsible for that, the way it was planned, I'm not going to be responsible for this because we're among the most unvaccinated nations in Europe, and unfortunately for the number of deaths among the highest. It is also the minister's responsibility to allow, with the very fact that in a system of family doctors where we actually lack 300 doctors of family medicine, which would mean that at this point 500 thousand Croatian citizens are without a basic doctor and in 5 years. Considering that 190 are over 65 and 730 are older at this point than 60. in order to make it in 5 years. We may be left without another 500 or 500 thousand Croatian citizens without primary health care in terms of not having a family doctor, that family doctors are doing this to hear and read between the lines in the reform that none of us have seen, only the stakeholders of the system that are extremely opposed to it where these same family doctors are missing, at this point we have only 133 doctors in the whole country who are on specialisation and who will not be able to substitute those who work above 65 years. At this moment, just because of your enthusiasm and commitment to work and commitment to patients means where they are intended to be transferred to the ER and that you have allowed defeat by the MUP to be from these same family doctors who are missing, who are stifled by the administration of the device and those of the carjackers. Not only does 500 thousand Croatian citizens currently lack primary protection in the sense that there is no family doctor, more than 400 thousand women in the Republic of Croatia at the moment have no access to primary gynecological protection, no gynecologist, no right to perform elementary gynaecological examinations plus ultrasound plus a test that would be recommended annually to create it precisely to protect reproductive health and to provide women with key information in order to safeguard health and prevent difficult difficulties. It's not a problem that's since yesterday, but what's the responsibility of this minister is what in these 2 years. As long as he's a minister, he didn't do anything to solve these problems. Thirdly, it has already become a public secret, if it has not been brought to the attention of the minister, and then it should be that 80% of health workers in the two largest Croatian cities are under the call of conscience, that 60% of the total health care professionals in health care institutions are specialised under the call of conscience, that in 5 Croatian public health institutions at the work of the institutional call of conscience, making it de fact-finitely clear to the Minister of Health that they will not comply with Croatian laws, I am not interested and we do not need to know who the founders are, the obligation of the ministry is to ensure the implementation of Croatian laws, and nothing has been done on this issue either. And to finish, when one such case comes out in public like the painful case of Cavida, what I resented the minister is that he showed how Croatian health works and said that her fault is that he doesn't have his cell phone number.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118261	She will now speak to the respected representative Maja Grba-Bujevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118262	Thank you, Vice President. The Honorable Ministers. I'm going to remind you of some things in this House. I see things are quickly forgotten. Another 20.12.2019, the first meeting was the Ministry of Health’s Crisis Headquarters because something had begun to happen in China. The Bible’s China declared an epidemic, only one day later and global health care confirmed it, and another day later Croatia is starting to seriously monitor the situation through continued work of the Crisis Command. Minister Berosch was also a member of the same Staff. Just 5 days later, the first meetings in the government were held on the subject of an epidemic then in Wuhan, and HZZ is responsible for drawing up the first flyers on coronaryvirus in Croatian, English and Chinese. Just 7 days later, these first flights are divided into Croatian airports. The next day, Wuhan is closed as a quarantine, and 5 days later, Croatia, which then runs the EU presidency at EU level, is a mechanism for an integrated political response to crises to the general surprise of most EU member states. 2 days later, world health care declares a public health threat of international importance. One day later, the first two coronavirus cases were reported in Italy, here in our neighborhood. Three days later, Professor Beros takes over as Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Immediately after taking office in Brussels, a meeting was held with Health Commissioner and crisis management commissioner, Minister Beros in the EU. In the same week, Minister Beros launched an emergency meeting initiative by European health ministers by the end of the week, which was then assessed by many countries as premature. 10 days later, following the initial hesitation of most member states, the initiative of Minister Berosa was adopted and the first crisis meeting of European health ministers was held. We reminded Europe that the pandemic is near us. 14 days later, the first case of coronary virus was reported in Croatia. Thus, Minister Beros showed that he and the Croatian government reacted very quickly and among the first in Europe saw the danger and threat of the pandemic and began a very fast and urgent preparation for the coming troubles, which proved to be very, very good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118263	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118264	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, dear colleague. As you yourself started this late-night individual debate with the sentence that we remember a little bit, however, because of course everything is very soon forgotten, and even when some hardships and hardships go through, then in some way all the generals after the battle, and then in those days we are not only almost able to say, the world, we were caught by a new pandemic, a new threat, had no clear instructions, not only in Croatia but also at WHO level, there was no equipment, not only in Croatia, although some say, we should have had masks and protective suits, but also in the whole world and we were great in Croatia. But it all goes quickly, and then they go. critics. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118265	Dear Representative Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118266	Thank you, colleague Murganic. That's exactly what you said. When I remember today from this booth all these 24 hours of attention, as it happens, working in such conditions where nothing is known and only some things are being mentioned, then I can say with certainty that the health system and the government have responded completely as it was appropriate at that time and continued with all the health care that was done, as well as the care of both workers and the economy and everything that was further taken care of, when many already knew what was going on, and some of them were still sitting with us in this House claiming that this was different. It's so sad and devastating.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118267	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118268	Thank you, Madam Vice President, my colleague. Dear colleagues, so it's really good that you reminded us a little because even in this uncertain situation like the new infectious disease that was spreading rapidly, it was spreading extremely quickly, the flexibility of the health system is important, and I think it's really in those moments, that our Ministry is headed by our minister who was really appointed, and at the beginning it's just this pandemic that they've been very, very well organized and they've taken care of every patient. When we remember those scenes from Italy, from our environment, especially from Italy, when every day I don't know how many people died, tens of thousands of people a day died, and no one there said that someone was there, that the ministry had failed. So we were fighting something unknown. Something we fought for that we didn't really know, but... That we answered correctly, I think we did. [[Thank you. Dear representative...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118269	... Grba-Bujevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118270	Yeah. We have really fought for every human life. But just for everyone to find the impossible situation to solve, Minister Beroš was at that time investing all his energy, knowledge, knowledge, everything that could have been answered to this crisis, and so it is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118271	Thank you very much. Stay here because you will now speak finally on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected representative Maja Grba-Bujevic Here you go. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118272	Thank you, Vice President. Minister. At the head of the Ministry of Health for two and a half years, the minister responded to the covid crisis responsibly, balancedly, professionally and working 24 hours and would not only have the epidemic at one hour and the earthquake in Zagreb. Medical institutions have been damaged, and this means that the entire system of Zagreb had to be re-purposed for some other purposes, to find new solutions. It was all done literally at one hour, no one was left without a favor. And so we move on. In parallel to not only the covida, the documentation for the renovation of buildings began to be drawn up immediately. Infectologically she was injured, the infectious one that was most important to us in response to this crisis, that she was killed in an earthquake, and the Jordanian was killed, and all those patients were supposed to end up somewhere, she suffered Petrova has a lot of it. The projects started working the same day the trouble took place. And if it hadn't been for all that to end, Banovina and the earthquake came. All health facilities in the Sisak-Moslavina area suffered. In one day, the same Minister Beros, named, organised complete health care in the Sisak-Moslavina area. It wasn't easy to believe. I spent seven days there. We had to move all the patients, we had to train them to do it, we had to get out of the hospital, they also got hurt, so it was so really crisisous that it couldn't be anymore. But immediately, 290 million kunas were allocated to close 30 contracts, and in the course of the last eight, health institutions are being renewed and someone should have done it. Who made it? It just didn't happen, made Minister Beros with his team and the government of the Republic of Croatia. And all that time we had still a pandemic so we wouldn't forget her a little bit more. We also had a multi-annual financial framework in '21-'27. There is no time-loss to be done, everything has to be prepared, everything that we will do, the strategy has to be brought in, and investments in primary health care, refurbishment of equipment for the health system, construction of a national children's hospital, HEM... medicine and a bunch of other things, and all of this has to be programmed, negotiated with our regional, with the government, with the European Commission. You think it just happened? No, that's what this Minister Berosch did with his crew. At the same time, documentation was being prepared to withdraw funds from the Solidarity Fund for the full renewal of some health institutions that could not enter that first phase, during the period of the continued pandemic, and the minister provided for the availability of healthcare facilities for all emergency and chronic patients and for others only as long as the epidemic allowed. Enough vaccines are provided, vaccination is ensured, vaccination and testing carried out, and this was not a small task. This was all organised by the Ministry of Health, and all this time, the minister himself, and I can testify, has never allowed preventive checks to be stopped. Other countries have stopped everything, and in this country it has not stopped. Even at the time of the pandemic and all the before-numbered shops, there were many more of them than they had stopped in these few seconds, gathering various stakeholders in preparation for the next health reform. Over the past two and a half years, not many people have given their support. I regret to say that you and those of you who have completely unargumentedly signed this shift initiative. Nothing, but you haven't convinced us that Minister Beros is not a good minister and not a good job of his own. On Friday, we will reject this initiative because Minister Beros is well in charge of these overlapping crises that have hit him in health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118273	On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the respected representative, Andreja Maric, will finally speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118274	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a few final thoughts from the SDP club. It is clear to us on Friday that a sufficient number of hands from the ruling option will be preserved by Minister Beros, but I hope it is clear to all of you that our right, duty and obligation to point out what is wrong, but what needs to be fixed so as not to repeat mistakes. Well, here's what we are, in fact, which is listed in this opposition action to vote against Minister Beros. Let me remind you, therefore, the inaccessibility of stopping pregnancy is the medical idication after 22 weeks of pregnancy and at the request of a woman until the 10th week of pregnancy. So, the legal framework exists as it is, we offered our bill more modernly, by ruling it, not offering it. But I say such a legal proposal as exists in practice is not fully implemented and I believe that you are aware that there are problems and that you have to change them. In more exposure, it is said in which hospitals are the problems where women can't have the right to actually need an available health care service. So we don't dispute the appeal of conscience at all, but don't let the institution's appeal exist and women walk from one institution to another. We were talking about the Medical case, the fact is that in some way we prefer this private giant. So, invest all that money as soon as possible in the public health system in equipment, not to put private pockets wherever possible, of course the patient is number one, but here it has already been in these few years as Minister Kujundzic announced the purchase of PCT devices, so it has not been done. There's been a lot of talk about the USKOK investigation into the business of Cuspis, and then the procurement of the radiation device, it must've been paid $6.5 million, you claim the ministry wasn't wrong, and then punish those who screwed up in it, so here we ask that it be done then. As far as the case is concerned, Corusic, so it's really negatively echoed in public, man has trampled both ethical and legal norms, so don't defend indefensiblely, as soon as you get it, if you let it go to the medical chamber and I don't know the Data Protection Agency, so take what the man has screwed up. As for the pandemic, therefore the number of infected is growing, we must unfortunately prepare for a new wave, the fact that more than 350 thousand doses of vaccine have been thrown, we warned in time to keep track of the deadlines, please make sure that no additional doses are thrown. Here we have ordered almost 20 million doses of vaccines by 2023, and we ask who, who will pay for it and how it will all be taken care of together. We talked about the problems of suspected transplants, I repeat, we congratulate our teams on transplants, patients etc., but if there are doubts about irregularities and some criminal proceedings, then investigate it clearly and transparently explain it to the public. The health reform could be discussed by tomorrow, so respect the examples, remarks by all stakeholders, protection and patients and profession, invite all stakeholders, therefore the primaries, family medicine, emergency rooms, HUBOL or hospital doctors, so invite them to, to, to talks, one by one, respect what people are telling you is that the problems are on the ground, not only that you actually put them on paper. Know all the meetings that you are not in health care in the Republic of Croatia 2.205 family medicine doctors, 104 teams actually operate without a doctor, means other doctors fly from one office to the other and cover, 728 colleagues are over 60, 173 older than 65, so lack a doctor, get rid of them from the extra administration, solve the problem by problem, arrange public private work, resist lobby interests, so edit the system, excess insurance, so I guess this can be solved and finally can be really warm please here as a colleague, improve communication, not first in the media, then we all find out what to plan, of course there is disbalancing and actually dissatisfaction, here is thank you nice, I hope you will appreciate something.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118275	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the Honorable representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak finally, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118276	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. At the end of this day and at the end of this debate I want to say a few things, first be the minister of this portfolio is not easy, it is not easy, on the one hand the expectations are great, on the other hand the possibilities are relatively small, on the third hand you have financial constraints, on the fourth hand you have some heritage that was also on the fifth if you want to implement any reform both on the smallest letter and on the smallest letter must be clearly written about what it is and you must have a clear political will for it. In any system we want to talk about there are three actors or three things, one is the end user, the other are the technical conditions that the system works and the third are the people who are going to implement it. The end users of the system that you're headed are all of us and we'll all have our own observations and we'll have our demands and we'll be dissatisfied, but let me just read some data as far as we're at this point and we don't see a solution and we don't see a step for that. At this moment, according to the data we have received from an analysis of some 900 thousand people in Croatia, there is an average of 123 days waiting for the first review or if they can be translated into 4 months, 6 months waiting for a diagnostic examination, magnetic brain resonance in KBC Zagreb is waiting 427 days, magnetic resonance of the spine on average 10 months, ultrasound of the heart, prostate or breast 4 to 7 months, in KBC River 3 months waiting for colonoscopy, etc., etc. I ask you all together, who among the end-users, who among these 900 thousand people in Croatia, who among us can be satisfied with this, and for all eyes and those who seek a solution, and you do not have a magic wand, are opposed to you, so the solution of this is expected of you. The other thing in all this is certain technical conditions. There's something called an interoperable radiotherapy device. When we were and when we discussed the budget, there was an amendment to obtain 5 such devices for 5 clinical centres in Croatia, Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, Osijek and the Sisters of Mercy. According to the available data, such a device costs 5 million kuna along with VAT and thus costs both in India and Canada and in the UK, of course the amendments were rejected, so we don't have to tell you that there was no money for it. It is a device that serves in gynecology in the head and neck tumors, in the pancreas tumor, in the colon tumor can move immediately with treatment, accelerates, reduces the overall duration so that I do not now have all the benefits that doctors will know better. We then have an example of HDZ management in Croatia, and in the meantime one device was obtained by the Mercy Sisters, 11 million kuna was paid. The key question is why this device is double-paid or maybe it's got two, one is somewhere else we don't know. So much for the way it's technical elements and there's the responsibility of the minister of you and the system you manage. And the third is who the system doesn't have, it's medical personnel. They're doctors, they're nurses, so someone without whom the system doesn't exist. You can invent the best possible system, but if you don't have enough at the end of the day, you can paint enough people to do it for free. And now you're going into reform and against reform successfully, very simply in a month with one 3-4 test balloons. You got counter from that system everything. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118277	Now, finally, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, the respected representative Eric Fabianic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118278	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I will therefore use the opportunity to speak finally on behalf of the club for what I certainly did not arrive at in that part that was an individual debate, but that we also talked about a number of things about the termination of pregnancy and the objection of conscience. Last time I said that, if the defenders had objected to the question of whether we would have Croatia today. That's a fact. There are several kinds of complaints to conscience, but alone, I want to say something to get me into some illusions right away. Illusions related to changes to the Constitution, as far as banning or women's rights to termination of pregnancy are concerned. A referendum can be made, it can be put in the Constitution, but gentlemen of fellow Members, the objection to the conscience remains because it is a European acquis. With the installation of this into the Constitution, we have not solved the problem, and that is why I also stressed in an individual debate that it is a matter of political will of the founders. So unfortunately, you can't expect me to sell fog, or cheap demagogy, politics, or anything else. Here, unfortunately, we have what the parliamentary majority says, we have the power number, but having the power of numbers doesn't mean having the power of reason. What reason can we hear when it comes to health reform? I was on a round table that was organized on 12.4. I heard there from some chat from the Ministry of Health who, who said to the presidents of the Health Committee, that if he wants to see something about health reform, he should choose to join the HDZ. It's the mind that rules. One serious health reform can't be made in a year, not in two, not in five. There must be one strategy, one vision, but also certain deadlines provided you don't have a war in Ukraine, provided you don't, that you don't have a pandemic that we're all in the 2020 parliamentary elections, as I said long ago we were convinced that HDZ beat I mean pandemic, and then won the election because it won the pandemic. Okay, so that's what we're dealing with. Reform as important as health reform should be something that is important to partisan, not that you have the right to see some documents only if you are a member of the HDZ. And on the treatment of what they are, which is often said by this steakholders often today, so interested not only in the public, but also by interested subjects, it would also be possible to talk about how they are treated. Here's the part that's connected to the driver's licenses and the family medicine doctor. Many things are and many laws are interdisciplinary and so is the one that is related to the changes in transport security, but here it really was to be expected that the Ministry of Health will stand behind the profession, and not that it will perhaps send the same chat that I have heard that you have to join HDZ to have insight into the health reform that he simply said, so let's give it to the family doctors to do so. And the proposer's representative lies in my eyes when he tells me that this is what individual, individual, individual EU member states do, by the way, specialist doctors do, and what I talked about with my colleague Celic among other things. So, it's too serious that I really appeal to all of us who are here from the health reform and beyond, to play around, to build cheap political points on people's health on the tragedy of patients because it's a shame, a shame for this home.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118279	Now, on behalf of the promoter, he will finally speak to the respected representative Ivana Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118280	Thank you. I promised the Parliament Service I'd be brief. I will look only at my colleague Fabianić for a very short time to tell him, therefore, the right to a conscience is not a European acquis, it is not an absolute right, it refers to the right to defend yourself against the state's coercion, but not in a way that you go to the military, they train you as an army, you do the army, and then after you receive the salary in the army, you say when the trouble comes that you have an appeal of conscience, so it doesn't work that way. And you can look at it if I haven't explained well enough what it is possible that what the Ombudsman told you the other day on that subject, who clearly said that the right to appeal to conscience cannot be and in no way above the right of a woman to rule with her body and women's rights to choice. But we return to our recall. So, it's clear to me what Friday's vote is going to look like, but I did get one message that she said you might not change Minister Beros, and maybe you wear it out so much that it's over in the end, it might have worked out for us, we'll see. But I also got a lot of messages, and it is important to me that despite Friday's vote, it will look like many here are projected today by a bunch of colleagues who thanked me and referred me to other colleagues on this side of the opposition that they are terribly glad that someone talked about the pandemic being conducted, that there is no respect for the right to health care in Croatia, what happens to transplants on the Rebra, what happens to destroying primary health care, how professional societies in Croatia operate, how conflicts of interest turn into corruption in Croatian health, etc. and everything we talked about today, in fact, by warning and believing that you could hear us because we wouldn't try so hard to think that you couldn't hear us, so by warning us that Croatian health care isn't going in the right direction. In that sense, I will thank everyone who participated in the debate, thank you for actually sitting there, and I appeal to the conscience of this side of the assembly for one more time and thank the congregation service that has held out with us so far. Thank you. But we also have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118281	Replica, the respected representative of Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118282	This way, so as not to be longer than the last time I sent you an e-mail to deny what you're saying, and this time I will send you an e-mail ruling from the Italian Health Union that lost the dispute against the employer in the European court calling for this argument that you are saying, and I agree with you, but the European Court of Justice has unfortunately given greater power to appeal to conscience, but it also commented that there must be no working inequity and within doctors who have an appeal to conscience. So it's possible in a different way, but I'll give you the verdict that I know very well what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118283	Can I give you my word or do you think I'm irrelevant here? There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118284	You wouldn't think you were irrelevant, but I think you're too important sometimes given how you do your job, for example. I have to see it today with my colleague Prickin. But okay, let's get back to this. I think it is important to point out therefore as far as the right to a conscience is concerned, once again it is important to hear, it is in Croatia a systemic problem which is not caused by us having more conscious gynecologists and gynecologists than that the humanization created such a climate in institutions that it is more important to have an appeal of conscience than to have no conscience, and even my colleagues who I know who say I am an atheist have no appeal of conscience whatsoever, but I can't afford to be the only one at my clinic who does abortion, I've heard it in my own ears. That's what this is about, and that's the problem, and that's what we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118285	The breach of the rules of procedure was raised by the respected representative of Grba Bujevic. What's the damage to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118286	In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. In 238, it is sad and sad that after so many arguments that have been denied all the allegations of those who have proposed this initiative have not heard anything, nothing has been learned for me is devastating.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118287	You know very well that it was pointless because it was a replica, you get a warning in the end. The esteemed representative Raukar Gamulin has also committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118288	Art. The 238th insult and demeaning of parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public, today in this long debate, it has been very much justified and proven and demonstrated and nothing has been denied and that is an important word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-07-06-0.u118289	Well, you're getting a warning, too, no matter how pointless it is right now at the end of the debate. I hereby conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We will continue to work today on Thursday 7 July at 9.30 and the first item will be the Animal Health Law Proposal, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 299. Have a nice rest of the night. The session was interrupted at 12:41 p.m. On behalf of the Representatives' Club For Fair Croatia will now be spoken by the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac, please.
