ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99964	The first point is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Sustainable Use of pesticides, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 181. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution and the Art. in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. I would now ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation of the final bill, with us is the respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Tugomir Majdak. But before that, we have a request for a break, Comrade Bull, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99965	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break in the name of the 10-minute Bridge Club on this very important subject, about an important topic where we protect people's health from the poisons that are used most in agriculture, whether pesticides, or herbicides, anything that harms our people, and especially when we talk about this, then we have to say that more and more are mainly carcinogenic diseases, that is. tumor. I have to say here that on many occasions I gave the law, the bill for the first time in this assembly in the last term, it was not supported, the law on the ban on glyphosate. For people to understand better, for people to understand it better, so we're talking about the cidocor, it's applied to us, the cidocor, we know what that means, we know what glyphosate means. Austria and other countries are already at a high-level ban on glyphosate use in agriculture, because we need to know that half of the EU population is in research, glyphosate has been proven in the blood. We have numerous lawsuits obtained from people who have contracted glyphosate, from these toxins and their health is at risk. I would once again say and point out that I was 2020. gave the law on the ban on glyphosate. Glyphosate is the most dangerous thing, the most dangerous thing they do means most of all Monsanto, which, of course, made GMO products that pushed through GMOs and glyphosate. Otherwise Monsanto was at war in Vietnam and used it. He's been producing battle poisons before... combat poisons and now he's re-appearing to glyphosate. Glyphosate is the most dangerous thing, many countries in the world are fighting it, but the lobbies are obviously too strong. Let's ban glyphosate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99966	Thank you. The apartment is approved. We have another request, dear colleague Vlasic Iljkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99967	Thank you. I am looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Club for further consideration in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the sustainable use of pesticides. This law harmonizes Croatian legislation with EU legislation, especially with the Strategy From Fields to Table, the EU Biodiversity Strategy until 2030. and the European Green Plan. The strategies are ambitious and prescribe a total reduction in pesticide use by 50% to 2030. A reduction in the use of fertilisers by at least 20% by 2030 and a 25% increase in organic area in the EU. How much Croatia is actually ready to implement the objectives set and how much systematic support there is in general Croatian agriculture, especially if we are talking about healthy food and foods grown from organic production without the use of pesticides. Prices of food growth, consumer products from organic production are inaccessible and production is invaluable to the manufacturer. The Croatian farmer does not have enough to process agricultural land, and due to the rise in energy prices, production will be invaluable, almost even more difficult or threatened. Food without chemistry is a product of additional value and the opportunity is actually for the production of quality foods in which Croatian agriculture can be found. The law lays down certain activities but does not specify financial resources. If we ask you at all for not implementing the law so far, you'll say it wasn't enough that it was missing, but that's why we're thinking at all about not implementing the law so far that there's been an administrative matter. not a real approach to reducing the use of pesticides; and [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] planning the development of agriculture. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99968	The apartment is approved. We have another request, dear colleague Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99969	Thank you, Mr. President. So, on behalf of the Club For Fair Croatia, I am also looking for a break of at least ten minutes to point out once again all the problems and difficulties that the Croatian village must face these days. So, on the one hand, the European Commission's threat of penalties that are not even small and amounts to nearly 230 million kunas for direct payments for direct incentives that they need to sit on accounts for their products for what they are doing and what they are suffering at all. On the other hand, we have a situation where Europe warns us that we have not met the strategic goals that Europe has imagined for the next period. So we're talking about reducing the use of pesticides, we're talking about organic production, we're talking about ambitious plans on implementation of strategies that could have helped the Croatian village to combine, because as far as I'm concerned, there's not a person who hasn't been aware of the problems since we joined the EU we actually see how competitive all the other farmers are more competitive than our farmers. Why is our ministry constantly denying some positive practices that can be positive examples that we can rewrite from the EU? I don't know, so we're doing new restrictions, and on the other hand we have a situation of gathering all the repromals, the price of blue diesel goes to nearly 10 kuna, how these farmers will survive, and how they will follow the steps of those colleagues at EU level if only the ministry won't help them. So I think that we should all think again about what direction the Croatian village is going in and how to help them survive that they can continue to produce healthy food, unpolluted food, food that is easily available, which will be locally produced, which can do good for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99970	Are there any more interested in taking a break? No, then we'll take a break by 10:00 and 45 minutes. MEETING AT 10:32 A.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.45 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99972	Thank you. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, is therefore the area of sustainable use of pesticides in the Republic of Croatia, which is fully in line with the provisions of Directive 128 of the European Parliament and of the Council relating to the establishment of a framework for Community action on the achievement of the sustainable use of pesticides. Since a number of strategies have been adopted since the entry into force of this law aimed at reducing the use of pesticides, the law needs to be adapted primarily to the Strategy from field to table, but also to the European Green Plan. Also, the EU Biodiversity Strategy 2030. In addition, certain shortcomings in existing systems to achieve sustainable use of pesticides that need to be improved have been observed following the multiannual application of the pesticides Act. The final proposal for a law on the sustainable use of pesticides improves the legal framework of national legislation, the area of sustainable use of pesticides, thus achieving its more effective implementation. The main objective of the law is to achieve sustainable use of pesticides, reduce the risk and negative effects of pesticide use in a way that ensures a high level of protection of human and animal health and protection of the environment and biodiversity conservation, introduces mandatory application of the basic principles of integrated plant protection to combat harmful organisms or alternative techniques such as non-chemical plant protection measures to achieve sustainable and competitive agriculture. In view of further information and automation of the FIS system, the phytosanitary information system needs to be upgraded, so the final draft law creates a legislative framework for the introduction of credentials systems for the authentication of plant protection products in sales places with the aim of validation of their rights for the purchase of plant protection products intended for professional use. One of the possible credentials will be an e-agricultural card. Also, the automation and registration system of sold annual plant protection funds to end-users, which also relieves employees in sales places. For the full application of the provisions of the law and the introduction into the electronic agricultural card system, it is necessary to adapt the system of the phytosanitary information system, the funds for the upgrade of FIS of one and a half million kuna are planned in the state budget. Therefore, the final draft law lays down provisions relating to the National Action Plan for the achievement of the sustainable use of pesticides. A system of education of professional pesticide users, distributors and consultants is being arranged. The system of distribution and sale of pesticides, pesticide handling, storage and handling of pesticide packaging and packaging remains shall be clearly defined. The obligation to inform the public with a view to raising the level of pesticide awareness is also required, measures to reduce the risk of pesticide use. Furthermore, the obligation to apply the basic principles of integrated plant protection is prescribed. Specific procedures for the use of pesticides, air use, public notification of application, specific environmental protection measures, reduction of pesticide use and risk reduction in certain areas are also laid down. There are also ways to protect bees and other pollinators when pesticides are used. The use of pesticides on public and green areas is regulated, risk indicators are also defined. The provision of treatment, reporting and information exchange services shall be arranged. Authorised professional institutions and tasks of authorised professional institutions and pesticide committees shall be defined. Compensation shall also be prescribed and infringements shall be subject to supervision of the implementation of this law and of the rules adopted under this law. In relation to first reading, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Sustainable Use of pesticides explained that farmers who treat seeds on their holding do not provide treatment services and do not have to be included in the register of treatment providers. The joint use of pesticides by several professional users is also possible. It is also prescribed that if a professional user who is not able to carry out the testing alone, the treatment for him can be done by another professional user without compensation and this is not considered to be the provider of the treatment service. Following the above, today we have in the debate the Final Proposal for a law on the sustainable use of pesticides, which includes most of the remarks and proposals highlighted in the context of the first reading of the law. The provisions of this law will improve the existing system of sustainable use of pesticides to reduce the risk posed by pesticides for human and animal health, biodiversity and environmental impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99973	I'd like to thank the Secretary of State, and now we're going to move on to the replicas, and first of all, our esteemed colleague, Ban Vlahek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99974	Thank you. I tried to count how many regulations under this law should be passed within a year, but that didn't work out for me. My question to you, do you consider the provisions to be an integral part of certain regulations because such a large number of complex articles burdens and complicates legal provisions rather than making them as simple and acceptable to the users themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99975	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99976	Thank you for asking. So, regarding the provisions of the law, all that was necessary was to be prescribed by law, we did, and it is definitely necessary to adopt regulations regarding clarifications regarding certain provisions of the law. This is an established practice in case of substances such as the sustainable use of pesticides and it is definitely necessary to further clarify and define it by means of a Regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99977	Here you go, Comrade Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99978	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Director, this law mentions the very bees of the community. We are also aware of the roles and importance of bees and wild pollinators in maintaining the ecosystem itself, but also the roles of pesticides related to the number and normal and disease of the bee communities themselves. I'm interested in this particular law that only the Ministry has prescribed exactly how to deal with pesticides themselves is specifically related to the preservation of bee communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99979	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99980	Thank you for your inquiry. Therefore, it is a very important question of the impact of bees on the overall ecosystem both on agriculture and on agricultural production itself. We were definitely in law enforcement to protect this important factor in the agricultural production of pollinators. Even before each use, i.e. the use of pesticides that are considered dangerous, therefore, professional users are obliged for bees, i.e. protection providers, so to apply to the Croatian beekeeping alliance, or local commissioners who keep records at the level of local associations, or bee cadastre.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99981	Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99982	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. So this is all that's stated in the law nice everything sounds, stands etc. I just wanted to check in on what it looks like in practice, so in my nearby environment, I checked on how this education is being conducted. And when you go to your first education they say my education lasts for about four, five days, you really get detailed information, it's written a test, etc. However, when you go to repeat education, it lasts one day. Right after the lecture, a test is written, about 200, 300 kuna, all of this costs a lot and a extension of the card. And now I was interested in whether there were alternative ways of protecting plants and within that repeated education, it was not. So, I am interested in whether there is any structured education at the level of the Republic of Croatia that, therefore, educates people or has to be used by other models such as in our field was organized education but not within this extension card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99983	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99984	So the basic supplementary education is also prescribed the same way by this law. The alternative methods are definitely one of the options which is opened by this law and educational practitioners, except, therefore, basic education can also define additional training modules that exist for alternative, or non-chemical methods and all professional users can receive basic information through professional services such as HAPH, but also through authorised educational institutions available.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99985	Comrade Vukovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99986	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, the EU Member States adopt national action plans, which then establish their quantitative objectives, general objectives, measures, time plans to reduce the risk and impact of pesticides on human health and the environment, encourage development, the introduction of integrated plant protection, alternative procedures or techniques in order to reduce dependence on the use of pesticides. Member States must submit this National Action Plan to the Commission and to other Member States. Did Croatia deliver its action plan? Have we audited it according to a regulation that says I have to do it every five years, at least every five years, and is it publicly available? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99987	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99988	Thank you for your inquiry. Therefore, the National Plan for the Sustainable Use of pesticides has been active since 2013. It is also available to all EU-level institutions, i.e. the Commission, and it is also available at the level of Croatian institutions, i.e. all those who are interested in this topic. This law also allows for the up-to-date of this National Plan, and the Ministry of Agriculture is regularly taking care of the implementation itself and the potential revision of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99989	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99990	Thank you very much. Protecting the environment and human health is the most important thing. However, it is not enough just to rewrite and harmonise our legislation with European legislation. We here need to talk about products, about seeds and the final product of our peasant who will have to have and must already have alternative solutions. We have made our peasants essentially dependent on these pesticides so far and very little remains in this collection of artificial fertilisers is the question in which way... The pesticides are absolutely tribune to ban, in particular, the more dangerous ones that destroy bees, but the question is what has been done to make our farmer, the manufacturer, an alternative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How many eco products do we have when we're working on it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99991	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99992	Thanks for asking. On the one hand, we are in the process of adopting an action plan for organic production. On the other hand, about the use of pesticides at Croatia level, we are at half the average, so the total amount of pesticides treated at the level of all Member States at this time on the EU agricultural surfaces. So half of the plant protection resources in quantities are, therefore, defined, which is what we use, which is certainly one of the rarest countries where there is a sustainable use of pesticides and environmental concerns, is definitely our practice, and in this we will continue and through all action plans. One of them is the National Plan for the Sustainable Use of pesticides as our destination and we will build on our agricultural production in the context of sustainability and competitiveness.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99993	Comrade Dreven Buddinski, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99994	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Director. Here he is, my colleague Bulj beat me to it, I had one question, but I'll be like this. So pesticides are substances used in agriculture, but also in public health, communal hygiene, veterinary use to suppress pests on plants and animals. The pesticides we need can be as harmful to human health and the environment. Well, here it is, I'm curious about the situation with organic production.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99995	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99996	Well, Croatia is growing in agricultural areas that are applying for organic production. So far, we have contributed to environmental protection, biodiversity, the development of organic production through the current Rural Development Programme in 2014-2020. Our goal is clear, therefore, to increase ecological surfaces, but also products. Therefore, not only to the agricultural areas, but also to the organic products themselves must be the result.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99997	Comrade Vlasic Iljkić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99998	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, my inquiry concerns information systems. How many information systems are planned to be acquired or upgraded in the next two years for the implementation of this law and in general for the needs of the Ministry of Agriculture? How are they selected and how are companies that serve these systems paid? How much is a year's funding? We are witnessing provisions on such systems in the field of veterinary, agricultural land, cohesion and now related to pesticides. Of course, we support the digitisation of the system with the aim of speeding up and simplifying the process, but since much is financed through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan and other EU funds, after 2022 we fear that the creation of these systems does not actually end in the same way as with the Ministry of Regional Development and Omega Software.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u99999	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100000	Thank you. Therefore, at the level of the National Programme for Recovery and Resistance, within the framework of the 4 component, there is also a digitalisation of the system itself at the level of the Ministry of Agriculture, and as part of the sustainable use of pesticides, the FIS Information System will, through this law, be prescribed by the provisions of this law, that it is being upgraded, so in this work all procedures are transparent and public as in other segments, not only in relation to the National Resistance Programme, but in general all systems related to the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100001	Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100002	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, let's not just be critical, so I'm particularly fond of two things, Art. 12, in terms of education, well, that's where you put all the people who graduated from the Faculty of Agriculture and Forestry, so that makes sense to me, too, especially important, Art. 71, bees, therefore, at a time when bees do what they send, I would say, because we know how important they are to prohibit the use of pesticides at that time, but then that's good, that's good. But what I would like to ask you, what I would like to ask you, what is with false pesticides, with fake products, and isn't that what should have been incorporated into the law, maybe it wasn't, so explain to me, since there are big problems. So, about the pesticides that come to us from the outside, about the fake pesticides, they do a lot of damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100003	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100004	Thanks for asking. So, at EU level, the EU approves an individual asset, Croatia registers it. So that's not your question, just to explain the system. As regards the very issues which relate to certain irregularities in the introduction or transport of these funds, the competent inspection and customs inspection within the State Inspectorate or this system, so it is not the subject of this law, but in close cooperation we are therefore cooperating, sharing information on this work and we can obtain, if necessary, and this information, whether and to what extent certain irregularities have been observed in the introduction of such funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100005	Comrade Shashin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100006	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, because of Russia's aggression in Ukraine, there have been major changes, i.e. global food market disturbances, both in the global and European markets. Some countries and the EU even decide to ban grain exports, so here. Fortunately, the Republic of Croatia is self-sufficient in a large number, i.e. in a large type of production of agricultural cereals, olive groves, etc., I wonder how the provisions of this law, or this law, will reflect precisely on the production of, or the possibility of self-preservation and the remaining self-sufficiency of agricultural production of the Republic of Croatia under these new circumstances, under these new conditions? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100007	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100008	Well, thanks for asking. So, regardless of the limitations that we are all aware of, which define certain strategies and a new green plan, therefore our farmers have adopted agritechnical measures at a high level, so quality and implement it in the context of their production. One example is last year's sugar beet yield, which is 70 tonnes per hectare or 17 dyasties, which is above the average of the EU average, which proves that in agritechnical terms we adopted agrotechnics on the global market, or global agricultural production, regardless of what we are on the half, I will repeat, in half of the application of the pesticides of the EU average.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100009	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100010	Dear Secretary of State, some new insects have been harassing in Croatia for 10 years and this is about a red African pipe, a palm tree tree tree that destroyed the Croatian coast, especially Dalmatia and where they destroyed tens of thousands of palm trees. Palme in Croatia exclusively serves as a decoration, however, has also become a symbol of Croatian coastal tourist resorts. And I think it would be necessary, even though it's already too late, that someone from the ministry finally gets a loud and clear ad and gives instructions to all units of local self-government how to treat these extremely harmful intruders. Each local self-government works in its own way, 99% failed, here's Split is one of the few cities that managed to partially solve the problem of red African pipe and save palms but I'll repeat, the Croatian coast is devastated, it's too late, but let's do it today. We hear the voice of the ministry. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100011	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100012	Thanks for asking. So thanks for the suggestion, regardless of our advisory services on the ground with the help of an institution such as the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food, or the institutes with which it cooperates, define therefore and the level of... the service and level of analysis of the occurrence of all pests in the Mediterranean as well as if the occurrence is in the environment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So every additional effort is commendable and we'll also do it based here and this suggestion of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100013	Now it's time for fellow Petyr, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100014	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State and in my first reading, I commended the ban on the use of pesticides dangerous to bees at the time of agricultural bloom. I think it's extremely important to be taught especially by a case in Međimurje where nearly 60 million bees were killed, and it is suspected that the reason is excessive use of certain insecticides. I am interested in what this investigation has finally shown and whether this case has affected such a provision of the law, and I am also interested in considering that we have discussed the counterfeiting of pesticides, has proved through the find of the State Inspectorate that it was actually discovered in 2020 by only one counterfeit pesticide, meaning it is not some serious problem, but what I think is the problem that imports into our market of fruit and vegetables from third countries are treated with pesticides and herbicides that are not allowed in the EU and in which case we can do to strengthen control.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100015	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100016	Thank you for your enquiries. So, as far as possible, strengthen controls, definitely inspection controls at the level of the State Inspectorate itself and all competent inspections and services in each particular domain. As a result, the disaster that occurred in the beekeepers and bees of Međimurje Croatian government or the Ministry of Agriculture through the Croatian government has provided compensation for this killing which has been shown to have been the effect of a single part of this and therefore incorrect use of plant protection funds. Here, we also commend the committee that pointed out the need for additional reading amongst the 2 readings, we will not say restrictions, further improvements to the provisions in this section, and we have done so in connection with the treatment and banning of flowering treatment, and all to protect the bees Croatian beekeeping. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100017	Comrade Saturday, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100018	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I am interested in whether this law covers the Strategy from field to table and is this law in line with the European Green Plan?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100019	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100020	Thank you. That this law is also based on future Green Plan strategies, first and foremost on the Strategy From Fields to Tables or the Strategy of Biodiversity and through the provisions, we have highlighted the way in which pesticides are used in a sustainable way but also highlighted those methods, so alternative methods and not all of the chemical practices that can be applied through this law by any professional user or user of plant protection products, although I remind again that we are at half the level when it comes to the protection resources of the EU average and that we have done so far, but the aim is to go in this direction also by relying on these strategies that you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100021	Comrade Matul, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100022	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State Majdak here mentioned a colleague of the dangers that have now come from the war in Ukraine. Since the market will significantly reduce the possible amount of grain, I am interested in such circumstances, not to mention a large drought that is now apparent and we will see if this 2-3 day from tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, anything in this sense will help. Whether such circumstances may be a reason for alarming production, however, this year pesticides may be used in a higher percentage than usual and how eco-producers who produce 108,000 hectares to help them in this case that with natural pesticides... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100023	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100024	Therefore, the conditions in which agricultural producers operate today are neither pleasant nor pleasant, so inflation last year, Covid crisis, or the latest crisis caused by aggression on Ukraine, all of which resulted in increased prices of agricultural input, in agricultural production, but also in the rise of prices of basic war cultures where we are self-sufficient. In warfare we are tied to grains and olives self-sufficient. As far as the agro-climate opportunities themselves are concerned, a certain amount of rainfall is expected these days. As far as the crop situation is concerned, they are still in good shape and related to everything that has been done so far, and a spring crop on over 90% sugar beet so the crop status is very good in that part. So there is no additional effort on the issue of mainly plant protection and plant protection And as for the environmental producers themselves, we're here and we're working with them. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100025	Comrade Ivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100026	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State what Croatian farmers are looking forward to today and what they will be looking forward to tomorrow is the rain that has been announced and which is very much needed for this everything we talk about, but let's go back to what the topic is. Today, I believe that Croatian agriculture must be reorientated to what Europe is already doing slowly, which is so-called. Smart spraying. Today, without digitization and without all these technological wonders that happen, we will hardly do everything that is put before us as a challenge, and there is also the air treatment that this law defines in a different way, so maybe here's a few words about it. This will certainly interest people who are engaged in agriculture, but probably beekeepers who are important then covered by this technique.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100027	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100028	Thank you, too, for your inquiry. Therefore, air treatment or treatment that is not from the country is defined by a regulation, the new regulation means at EU level and is generally prohibited because of drifts and effects which can primarily cause human and animal health, but also the overall environment. The derogation also exists. Derogation in this case means that you need to prove that it is more effective and in some way more suitable for the protection of people and animals or the environment and in which case air treatment can be authorised.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100029	Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100030	Dear Secretary of State can you tell us what share of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia is under eco-production, meaning that fruit growing, as well as warfare, and where are we compared to the rest of the European Union?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100031	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100032	Thanks for asking. As far as agricultural areas are concerned, we have exceeded the number of 100,000 hectares under organic production means compared to the total agricultural production declared in the ARCOD system that is 10%. So, the level of agricultural areas we have a million and 100 thousand hectares of registered agricultural areas based on a single application for support and we seek therefore to increase not only as I said agricultural areas because this average at Member State level is mainly some countries surrounding us, Austria is far higher, but also the share of agricultural products from organic production. So our goal is to increase products, not just surfaces.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100033	Comrade Buric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100034	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State Majdak, the provisions of this Act provide for compliance with European legislation. Also adapting to the "From Field to Table" Strategy, which you yourself mentioned to the European Green Plan. I certainly welcome the fact that this law is going towards effective use of pesticides and is aimed at reducing the risk of pesticide negative effects, protecting human health, protecting animals, the environment, but also at ensuring biodiversity. Now, on the basis of the challenge of implementing the law that is in force, my question is, what discharge does this new law specifically foresee in the field of the distribution and sale of pesticides? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100035	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100036	Thanks for asking. With regard to distribution and sales, therefore, instead of the obligation, the discharge consists of the provision of this Act, instead of the provision that a person must be defined in each retail place as a consultant of the high professional training of agronomists, i.e., the dispensation here is that, according to the regulations, it is possible to carry out these tasks and persons with medium-sized expertise as a result of dialogue with so-called distributors or professional users themselves. And also in the application or control of the use of pesticide devices we have also made a certain discharge, instead of two employees can therefore be defined in these test cells by one person on a permanent working relationship or one on a work contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100037	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100038	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, over the past two years, a little more has been shown that the crown theme has opened and the topic of really enhanced online sales. So I'm curious whether there is a possibility or whether you've thought about that when it comes to pesticides, of course, you should have certain credentials and certain conditions but to open up the possibility of online sales. We don't know what's waiting for us next year or two. I don't want to be some kind of evil prophet, but it has proved really that this online sale works, that it is absolutely acceptable and I don't doubt that it would be possible and acceptable for our farmers. I don't doubt that it would be possible and acceptable under certain conditions, so we have the certainty that everyone does not buy everything. So I'm wondering if you've considered whether you've considered the possibility either within the framework of this law or if there's been a discussion at European Union level? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100039	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100040	Thank you, too, for asking. Therefore, online sales in addition to this practice and this segment of the sale of protective products or plant protection were subject to certain examinations. But since it's precisely plant protection and it's just about a credible document that you have to deliver when you're buying, and then it pulls away not only the application but also the disposal of those funds and everything else, it means that we haven't defined online sales as an option at the moment, but we're open if the situation requires some alternatives. At this point I say precisely because of the specificity of the area it was not possible to define.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100041	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100042	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Mr Majdak, let's point out once again the question of bees that mentioned both some MPs and MPs here today and back in June 2020 on the case already mentioned when a little less than 60 million bees died, we saw the government react. The money from the 5.2 Rural Development Fund was found. But perhaps there is little left in the air to question whether beekeepers are truly compensated, or whether and when and how much money is paid? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100043	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100044	Thank you for asking. So, based on the government's decision, beekeepers were compensated, so they received compensation under this decision. Unfortunately, this situation has happened. We react within our time frames, but we react without delay in this case so that the fee is paid in full and in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100045	The Honorable representative, Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100046	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Majdak, everything you say and what you do, not just you, but in the last many years of inerts. So we're doing something by momentum by modeling the European Union, etc., etc. I ask you, have you ever personally thought or anyone in the Ministry of Croatian Interest? Have you considered that this crisis situation and related to war, and related to the coronary crisis, and related to all of this and to the failure of Croatian agriculture, so let's be realistic Croatian agriculture has failed, on our knees, what little remains is major owners, tycoons in frequent foreign ownership, have you considered that this is an opportunity for a new start of Croatian agriculture, in a way that we turn completely to organic production to get 500 million people on the market, so they were very competitive, expensive and competitive and, on the other hand, to link it to laws that would make it impossible for food products produced in other areas, to come to Croatia at all if they were treated with chemical resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100047	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100048	Thanks for asking. So, through a new action plan for the development of organic production in the Republic of Croatia, we'll define all the measures exactly teaching what you're saying. Some counties are already being determined for organic production, as is the case at EU level, e.g. Denmark has been determined concerning organic production that it will produce at 100% agricultural surfaces of organic products. So, on the other hand, this production is extremely demanding and requires, therefore, the necessary knowledge. We say that we do not always react, to react by initiative, quite the opposite, we educate our agricultural producers and help them to make their production more effective as quickly as possible, both in terms of quality and the price of their products and thus environmental products.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100049	That would be, uh, here's the Secretary of State if you'd like to sit down. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yes, the Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Mariana Petir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100050	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Director, MPs and MPs. At the 55th session held on 24 March 2022, the Croatian Parliament's Agriculture Committee discussed the final proposal for a law on the sustainable use of pesticides, which was delivered by the government to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 17 March 2022. Following the introductory explanation of the presidents of the applicant, the committee members positively assessed the acceptance of the comments from the discussion of the Committee on Agriculture on the proposal for legislation relating to the supplementation of the concepts and a clearer definition of the provisions relating to the provision of treatment and treatment without compensation and in order to avoid any additional burdens on farmers. It is commendable to prescribe a ban on the use of pesticides dangerous for bees at the time of the flowering of agricultural cultures. A number of questions have been raised with the use of drones, the online sale of pesticides, the sale of counterfeit plant protection products and the reduction of parafiscal burdens related to technical examinations of pesticides, the sale of counterfeit plant protection products and the reduction of parafiscal loads related to technical examinations of pesticide machines. After answering the questions asked, the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament voted by majority, 7 votes for and 1 vote abstention decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on the Sustainable Use of pesticides. You have a full report on the Assembly website. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100051	Thank you very much. I am opening the debate and will be the first to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives Most respected MPs Miletic and Bulj, first respected representative Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100052	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Reiner, Mr. Bukarica, the esteemed Mr. Secretary of State with an associate and respected colleague and colleagues, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are following us. Let us give a brief introduction, so in 2002 at EU level, that thematic strategy on the use of pesticides was adopted, then in 2009 Directive 2009/128 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of Community action to achieve the sustainable use of pesticides, then in 2019, the European Commission therefore publishes a European Green Plan, which includes, among other things, a reduction in the use of pesticides. We have heard something from colleagues here, at the heart of the European Green Plan there is also a Strategy on Biodiversity and Strategy from field to table, which points to a new better balance between nature, food systems, biodiversity to protect health and the well-being of our citizens. Secretary of State, I asked you here, so in front of everyone, you'd say again, in the bill of law, I don't find any counterfeit pesticides anywhere. Since their application is not explicitly prohibited, at least in this law, I asked you whether it means that they are allowed, you told me that the State Inspectorate is dealing with this, we need to be concretely clear, what I'm a little afraid of is when I look at the State Inspectorate who really is a bulky machine and I think that it should be much more efficient and here I appeal to you here who are responsible and who are leading this country, you have the legitimacy to devote a lot, much more focus to checking it out because the trade in counterfeit pesticides is a huge growing crime, huge. So this is not just about the illegal treatment of the original products of our companies, but in a literal sense, therefore, with faka products which then cause great damage not only to the environment, but to health. So we also see at the Mosta Club is a problem and control of everything that comes, so let's say simplistic, from the outside. So, the food that we're doing with this law, let's express ourselves in plastic, what should be served with us, but then it turns out that some food full of pesticides can come from the outside and now it's again the story of the bodies that control it but here, I appeal here that much better and it has to be done. We've also heard from colleagues here, I haven't found out if the drones are allowed, so use our farmers, so I ask you that since these far more dangerous drones are coming and falling in the middle of the capital of the Republic of Croatia, then we let our brothers and our farmers use these drones and make it easier for them to deal with agriculture. So it's not just about banging on the head, what's good, I was talking about an art. The 71st protection of bees is very important to us at the Mosta Club but I would say that this goes beyond policy, to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, bees are extremely important to the whole ecosystem, and as funny as it sounds to some people, if the bee doesn't be any of us, and that is why I am glad that the law provides for you, so that at the time of the growing agricultural cultures in Article 1, 2, 4, etc. So completely prohibited use of pesticides for bees, for bumblebees, for solitary bees and everything else. Well, I can say thank you for that. I also welcome the exceptions, so that's what I used to say to the Faculty of Agriculture, the Faculty of Forestry. It's crazy that people who've listened to over a few hundred hours of waist so they have to run for some IDs, so that's good. I also agree here for the time being, so don't let online sales like most EU countries aren't allowed a colleague here said yes, but if there's a lockdown there won't be a lockdown anymore. There won't be any! He won't. You know why? Well, because the whole system is falling apart. So because now they too are the most concerned scarecrows realized that lockdown leads to a complete collapse of everything. And that's why there won't be a lockdown and we shouldn't be afraid of it anymore. And finally, Croatia must go towards self-sufficiency, towards organic production, and therefore I ask that our entire action plan of organic production be focused on all of you who manage our country, and then we will in opposition watch over it, warn about everything that is wrong, and what is right we will say is whether it is right as discreet people do. We must preserve our water, go towards energy independence and food production enough for all our citizens. Miro, the legend is gone!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100053	It will continue on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100054	I'd just like to, i.e. I'd pick up where my colleague left off. Of course when we talk about the eco system, protect people's health that it's too serious. Of course, here are the bees mentioned, the protection of bees as very important, the most important, the most important for the eco system of our bees, so I would, just a few things to mention that I think the tribals would always be on our minds. First of all, all the laws that we make are always applied. We know what it means. Here's the black market. However, the question is whether our farmer, a farmer, has adapted to new crops in general, mainly eco-products that we all strive to promote, i.e. and branded our home production. The issue is to adapt villages and farmers to be effective and to have a competitive price on the market. This may be one of the most important questions we have to ask ourselves, because the fact that import lobbys are pushing in Croatia a variety of different food products in our area, our trading chains that are below the price and of course the purchasing power of our citizens at this moment, not at this moment, but constantly is not so much that our farmer can produce a product for people with weaker purchasing power, and more and more people have weaker purchasing power, so that mainly that through import lobbys are placed on our market and questionable, unquestionable quality, but incomparably with domestic production, it means that we have a decline of our OPGs, extinction. our villages and empty Croatians. And we know, I'll repeat it a hundred times, it's also Stjepan Radic repeated without rich villages there's no rich state. And the fact that we're looking at this kind of, this vertical of complexity and horizontal evenly. However, we are passing these laws at a time when our farmer, the farmer, is asked how he will even be sown. At this point, the question is, will man have money for fertilizer? That's why I would once again tell the Ministry of Agriculture to you State Secretary, it would be good to transfer the ministers to take an emergency measure towards artificial fertilisers. So that was the most important measure to make a peasant as cheap as that incentive measure. I know, we'll all support it that at this point no one can give 1,000 kunas for a hundred kilos of fertilizer because it's invaluable and doesn't have that money, although it would be the current best measure with... We're all here to protect the bees, against the pesticides. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here I was talking a little while ago, although it's about herbicide, a glyposate that's very dangerous. I've given the law in procedure, we're going to work on it, but that's, of course, the overall GMO industry that produces and these dangerous poisons that cause great damage to human health, our health system, severe diseases, tumors and what's most difficult. But here is the issue of the current situation. I don't know now if a man takes down a farmer's land and if 70% of his cheaper artificial fertiliser was last year what's he gonna do this year, in what way? I think that here we need an emergency measure of the Ministry of Agriculture just for artificial fertilisers, our OPGs or direct support in talks with the manufacturer. It's Petrochemy because we know that the price gas is wild. And the question is, what's going to happen to the gas, and right now we have to model it, plant it. This crisis is going to produce food shortages, food collection, I think, and if we don't use our potential, it's our country, and if it doesn't go through the artificial fertilizer, then we're going to be in a huge problem. God forbid there's no problem, God forbid there's no wars, God forbid there's no more lockdown, God forbid there's nothing left, everything's normal. However, in crises and threats, the most important self-sufficiency is otherwise major problems, and mainly because of import lobbies that are highly unquality food that disrupts the health of our people is being imported. And therefore here is another urgent incentive for artificial fertilisers and sustainable measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100055	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, the honourable representative of Niksha Vukas will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100056	The Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs, before us is the Law on the Sustainable Use of pesticides, and now that I listen to the debate, there is much more to talk about the state of agriculture, about production, about some other laws, but here is now about the sustainable use of pesticides. And when we read that law that came out of the EU Directive 2009. The Green Plan of Europe, we must distinguish that we in Croatia want or do not have conventional agricultural production and have organic agricultural production. In order for conventional production to survive the use of pesticides, it must be possible for humans to be allowed but, of course, it must be framed by legislation. And I've heard there's a lot of some guys now, and my colleague Miletic says you shouldn't have an agronomy engineer with a credit card, that if he listened to the direction of the machinery where he didn't listen 90 hours from the plant protection department, of course he would have. So he's not familiar with the subject. It does not mean that, even in his five - year study, he had any contact with protective means, and such a person cannot be in a farm pharmacy or in a company responsible for the use of pesticides. However, we have a deeper problem that we have no control and we have no inspections. We need to make it clear once that we have a small number of agricultural inspectors, that the inspectors and veterinary inspectors came to the State Inspectorate, that they were there while they got settled, then we digitized them, then these poor inspectors are running around the field with little printers, with A4 papers, writing some records, then it goes to court, then our judiciary is what it is, and then we'll always go through the fingers of citizens or companies less, less agricultural inspectors, and these are the problems that are real where I don't see that we're going to make a move because we're harmonising our legislation with the EU, but we're not aware of our agricultural producers what knowledge of the environment, there's one Finn, Danac, Germans and Norwegians. And on the other hand, it's not the judiciary, nor our state, nor our inspections that are someone awake about these agricultural producers to see if this sustainable use of pesticides is. So then you have an example of having in a field a person has a country where there is and if they're going to deal with organic farming, and around it is conventional agriculture he has to cut off his surface and plant some green barrier because of course if the border is only one channel of 2 metres or if he doesn't have this one when he goes with a 6-7m syringe even if they're blowing the wind question where these funds are going to end. Then we have a problem that our agricultural pharmacies that are the first touch to citizens and these people should have some advisory role, agronomies have come down to do everything else and not advise, and then carry bags and mineral fertilisers and cattle food and a lot of old ones, and they least have time to tell people what that pesticide is, what it is used for, which negative effects he can have and the fruit of it is that poor farmers say under the alleged signs of poor, when they come to some poisoning, they say quickly open milk and drink milk, then you come to a toxicology course saying milk is the last thing you can't do or try to drink when you're poisoned because the milk has fat, the poisons melt in fat, faster they enter the blood stream, and it's one jumbus in our agriculture where we fail to test education, education, education, education. Then, on the other hand, we pressure farmers to have astounded syringes, the agricultural pharmacies must have rooms all together, and there's only one way to collect income, okay, someone who's done this service must and charge those prices must be less, these time periods have to be shorter for me if we want it to be all expensive right, but it can't be a burden for farmers, but that farmer must be brought to the attention that he's happy when he drives his syringe to control, and not that there to say now he swears and thinks who passed that law and what I have to go there now with an unregistered tractor where in most cases it happens 20 kilometers on a technical examination that some person attaches his syringe. And I think it's a little bit of a talk, a little bit of a talk. When we look at the law and I've read it if it's a special room, it's necessary, whether it's supposed to be an educated person who handles pesticides, it's necessary, whether we all in some way want to make as little use of pesticides as possible and to protect the soil and to protect the water and to protect these bees. I know that people who don't understand the agricultural ones of aha we've protected the bees and now everyone has caught Article 71 for bees today and of course, but that's a zero rate for me, that's what we need to know where those bees are, we need to have a register of those hives where they are, where they are, and where the beekeepers go when there's no more pasture in their areas. And that's all the things that you have to plan in advance, that you have to educate and that you have to let people into the consciousness of what it means to use pesticides. On the other hand, the secretary of state says we have 10% of the total agricultural area under the ecological, that's good, that's where we get up. However, we must also be aware that, I think if we talk, I am always for organic agriculturals, but that we are not on the standard of development, that our salaries are not so much that our citizens can exclusively feed on agricultural organic products because they are certainly 2-3 times more expensive. Whenever I go to a grocery store and I don't really see it in the market, I'm afraid I don't see that the big lines on those stands where organic products are sold. And on the other hand, and on the very same organic production that I welcome, which I tolerate, I think we kind of fell on the test because we need to see the control cells that control the organic farming that they do, we know what happened to the first ecological cooperative that closed down, that we have a judicial dispute. So then we have one agency from Slovenia, correct me Secretary of State if I'm wrong to oversee organic agriculture. It is registered in Slovenia and is not subject to the Law of the Republic of Croatia. These are the problems that need to be discussed deeper, and now to say if there is something wrong with this law, it is not, we are coordinating the European directive, but I think first of all that we need to help our farmers, that we need to go educationally, that we need to help people who sell pesticides, who are handling it, and that we need to take care of the workers who deal with these pesticides in the eight-hour working hours. I worked at the farm pharmacy, and I know when I walk into that little crate when the temperatures are high, you get in 10 times a day, you can't get it out of your nose, you get out of your mouth for almost two days. So whether the law is necessary, but what I would like to do is talk about these laws and help the agricultural inspection, not to be some tutors, and that their mission is to come to the OPG or to the agricultural company and write him a punishment, but to know that the inspector can't be an educator. But the first thing to do is to warn you, to write him 7, 8 measures that he must respect and give him some time period to correct. Because the state, according to people who handle pesticides, must not be a stepmother, must be a mother, must help them, must find a way of education. And what saddens me is that everyone with these credit cards should be praised. There were also ways to buy those IDs for 700 kuna, for 300 kuna. Someone's done it. The owner of the company brought it to his employee, he wasn't in the exam or was, and these are the things that need to be prevented, which we need to deal with, and everything else is on the conscience of the manufacturer and the state to control it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100057	On behalf of the Club of Representatives For Fair Croatia will now speak the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100058	... chaired, respected secretary of state, respected directors, colleagues and fellow MPs. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Therefore, due to the link between healthy people, healthy societies and a healthy planet, sustainable food systems are at the heart of the European Green Plan, the EU Strategy for Sustainable and Inclusive Growth. This strategy is designed to promote the economy, improve human health and quality of life, and of course care about nature. The European Agricultural and Food System, supported by the common agricultural policy, is already a global standard when it comes to security, security of supply, nutrition and quality. It should now become a global standard of sustainability. Switching to a sustainable food system can benefit the environment, health and society, and allow for a fairer distribution of economic benefits. And what are these EU objectives? First of all, ensure food security in terms of climate change and biodiversity loss, then reduce the impact of the EU food system on the environment and climate, strengthen the resilience of the EU food system, lead a global transition towards competitive sustainability from field to table. The European Commission has adopted a series of proposals to reduce the net greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% compared to 1990 levels by 2030. On 11 December 2019, the European Commission announced the communication of the European Green Plan, the new Strategy for achieving sustainability of EU economies, the protection and conservation of EU natural resources, and the protection of the health and well-being of citizens from environmental risks and impacts, including a significant reduction in the use and risk of pesticides, fertilisers and antibiotics. At the heart of the European Green Plan, there are biodiversity strategies, the "From Field to Table" Strategy, which point to a new and better balance between nature, food systems and biodiversity in order to protect the health and well-being of our citizens while at the same time increasing the competitiveness and resilience of the EU. The "From Field to Table" strategy is a new comprehensive approach to the evaluation of food sustainability in Europe. The strategy states that it is necessary to reduce dependence on pesticides urgently, and that the implementation of existing legislation is crucial in the field of pesticide use. It is also said that a number of steps will be taken to pave the way for the introduction of alternative funds, and to preserve the income of farmers themselves. To this end, Member States shall adopt national action plans setting quantitative targets, general objectives, measures and time plans to reduce the risk and effects of pesticides on human health and the environment, and shall promote the development and introduction of integrated plant protection and alternative procedures or techniques to reduce dependence on pesticide use. These objectives may cover various areas of interest, such as workers' protection, environmental protection, residues, the application of specific techniques or the use of specific cultures. National action plans also include indicators to monitor the use of plant protection products containing active things that cause particular concern especially if there are alternatives. Member States should pay particular attention to plant protection products containing active substances authorised in accordance with Council Directive of 15 July 1991 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market. On the basis of such indicators and, where appropriate, taking into account risk reduction or use targets already achieved before the application of the said Directive, time plans and targets for restrictions on use should be established, in particular if the restriction of use constitutes an appropriate means of achieving risk mitigation in view of the identified priorities. These objectives may be transitional or final. Member States shall apply all means necessary to achieve these listed objectives. When designing or revising their national action plans, Member States shall take into account the health, social, economic and environmental impacts of the measures envisaged as well as the specific national, regional and local conditions and all relevant stakeholders. In their national action plans, Member States shall describe how they will implement the measures in accordance with their objectives. National action plans shall be implemented, taking into account the use of pesticides under other Community legal rules. And what situation do we currently have in Croatia? When we talk about the Croatian strategic plan, we must repeat, at the end of last year, a document from the European Commission has come from the European Commission which is widely talking about the shortcomings of the Croatian Strategic Plan for Agriculture, which means a key document to withdraw funds from the EU in the next contractual period. In the document, the European Commission primarily resented Croatia for not placing a clear enough emphasis on the parts of the exactly green plan as stated in the Commission's recommendations issued by the Commission in December 2020. They called for the 2030 Union objectives set out in the Strategy From Fields to Tables and Strategy and Biodiversity. The European Commission believes that it is not well represented to achieve precisely environmental and climate objectives and to move towards more sustainable practices, so continuity is shown, and we need to increase these ambitions and we need to cover a wide range of benefits for the ecosystem, which will then become the basis for a productive and profitable agricultural sector. When we talk about the sale itself or the conditions for the sale of pesticides, they are next. Therefore, Member States are obliged to ensure that distributors have a sufficient number of staff owned by the certificates referred to in Article 5. Such persons must be available at the time of sale in order to provide customers with adequate information on the use of pesticides, on health and environmental risks as well as safety instructions to prevent the dangers of the funds concerned. Very small distributors who sell only non-professional funds may be exempted if they do not offer to sell pesticide formulations which, according to the European Parliament Directive and the Council of 31 May 1999 on the harmonisation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous products, are classified as toxic, very toxic, carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction. Member States are then obliged to take the necessary measures to limit the sale of pesticides authorised for professional use only to persons holding the licence referred to in Article 5(2). Member States shall require distributors selling pesticides to non-professional users to provide general information on health hazards, on the environment from the use of pesticides, and in particular on the risks of exposure, proper storage, handling, application and security care in accordance with Community legislation on waste, as well as on alternatives to minor risk. Member States may require the pesticide producer to make such information available. Our farmers have a large number of difficulties with the use of pesticides. For example, in agricultural pharmacies, the list of approved pesticides is constantly changed. Farmers can come for the pesticide they've met and know what results they can expect from him, but then he's gone for sale. They need advice that's substitutive. Then they re-acquaint themselves with the production of which they are successful, with a product whose success is tested on crops in their own production where they have no right to make mistakes. That, of course, confuses them further. For example, it is the same that if a farmer finds an appropriate means to have a positive experience in the use and buys a larger supply. When a distributor's permit expires, he must no longer use it even though he has legally bought it. Then he buys a new one again and experimentes and doesn't know what he's gonna get in the end. I believe that the presence is very well aware of the price of pesticides and that it is one of the higher costs in agricultural production itself. We must be aware that many pesticides are dependent on rainfalls, which as we have seen, we cannot predict and then farmers have to repeat treatment more frequently in order to achieve effect. Thus, the reduction of pesticides will not be until we resolve water supply or irrigation and provide a permanent source of water. In other words, irrigation projects in Croatia will be subject to reduced use of pesticides. Croatia is quite up-to-date with the process of taking pesticides out of sales, so we are then actually forcing our farmers to go to other EU Member States to get the same pesticides that are inaccessible in Croatia. We also need to know that the length of the border with BiH and Serbia has a significant impact. Is the control that the state is carrying out and that we have related to the purchase of pesticides in those countries enough? Furthermore, the quality of education, which you listed in the bill as problematic, is not on the back of farmers but on advisers. They're linked to universities you listed as a professional entity. How close are the advisory services working with the university and how intense is this transfer of knowledge? As far as education is concerned, if anyone has looked at the materials used, it is evident that there is no God knows what to learn because it is generally spoken, and when a particular problem arises and asks what means when and how often farmers remain unresponsive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100059	The next Club of Representatives will be that green-left block, and will be spoken by respected representative William Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100060	Thank you, Vice President. State secretary with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, the secretary of state emphasizes that we are self-sufficient in the amount of grain and that is good anyway. However, people who are dealing with this production and who understand this among other things are talking about how this quality grain is very fast and the wheat and the corn is given, above all, that the wheat is very easy to sell out, that it goes, one large part of it to go for sale, and that, at the same time, outside of that relatively high quality grain which, of course, is also treated with these pesticides when it is necessary, however, that the questionable grain comes first to feed cattle. But I hope that in this direction we will still succeed this year, which in all ways is a crisis, all of what I said and about the war in Ukraine, and this drought that is very much threatening. The information that has come to us you say that so far grain is good, but people tell us right there about the parish and that it is relatively small and that the plants are relatively small and that the question is how much this water will be and how much it will help. We in the Green Left Block are not in that sense unrealistic that we do not understand that conventional farms like we have are looking for pesticides, herbicides. Without it, it is even impossible to imagine this modern conventional agriculture and artificial fertiliser. Yeah, we understand that. But we also want to point out that since 2007, when eco-production was only 0.6% of the area that by 2019, we have some of the latest relevant data that it came to 7.2% of the surface, which actually says that in 12 years it has increased the area that is under ecological production and now it was in 2019 it was 108 thousand and 169 hectares. Of which, under wartime production means hurricanes, ecological hurricanes 52 thousand 587 hectares. Here's what I'm talking about if it's brought into a panic that can be slowed down because of the danger of food shortages and that this is why the food market is brought into a variety of dangerous volatility as they call it on the market, we hope that at that moment, those measures that this law recommends and which were normally rational before and that... as counterpart Vukas said, would not even happen in such a disaster and such a killing of bees. Now I just want to warn you how this law, I repeat, we're rational, we understand it's necessary, for some time it takes this traditional production. But here is just that in the introduction of this Law to compare what would be different if it were to be ecological in this sense, sustainable production of this Law says: "This Law regulates a national action plan or achieves a sustainable use of pesticides." This sustainable use of natural pesticides should not even stand because if every concept of pesticides in this law were replaced with natural pesticides, you will now see just that such an example of how unnecessary these words are. The system of education of professional pesticide users certainly requires education for each other. However, not because of this danger and the fact that colleagues with full rights have pointed out, and I have repeatedly listened to the alarming warning of the use of this type of pesticide and herbicide in these two years. However, if we were to do so with natural pesticides, that would not be necessary. What people tell us, that I will now mention another very important data, and that is how much on that surface of the 2019 data means we have 5 thousand and 153 organic agricultural producers and 395 processors. But this data should also be taken into account, it currently means in this past financial schedule for organic agriculture in Europe, it was 7.5 billion euros for these needs of a common agricultural policy aimed at organic production. In this period, the common agricultural policy means between 23 and 27, between 38 billion and 58 billion euros are planned. Now for this information, I don't know what the outcomes are. It is possible that the secretary of state knows better the outcome of these negotiations for the common agricultural policy. However, what they claim from the European Commission should lead to improved food traceability, increased availability of organic seed. Now, look at this, we who are proud of 20% of tourism revenues, but this big, big money within that green plan is particularly focused on organic production a large part of that money is foreseen for the development of the ecological tourism network. This would help us not only to have that tourism that is strong for our seas and for its beauty, but also because of environmental producers who are very much appearing along the coast and there are more and more of them in Zagora. However, on the continent, such incentives and such great incentives can very much help. So if it's unencumbered in 12 years, it could have increased the number of surfaces and people dealing with organic production, so imagine what would be possible with this. There is then the strengthening of local and small processing facilities that is also envisaged, improving and feeding animals and that I do not now list it. I will conclude this speech with the fact that, in addition to this education provided for by the Chemical pesticides Act, we know what we could learn from our environmental producers, those who want to do business or who are just starting to do just that at family level because they have either had a tragedy or a disease in the family that is terrible or have a wonderful reason which is usually a real motivator for people to move on to organic production, which is the birth of children. Now I'm just going to count the shortest, say, mechanical protection against pests. Against flying pests in the garden of fly carrots, onion flies, ears, cabbage flies, large cabbage on the beams that you may notice people putting yellow sticky plates on. The pests are attracted to yellow and they're glued to it. They're natural glues. The mixed crops against pest diseases, unfortunately, will not be able to say how many amazing things there are here and healthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100061	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and Vosa will now speak the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak Taritaš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100062	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. In our second reading, the Final Proposal for a law on the sustainable use of pesticides is before us. We absolutely at the Club of the Centre and the Voice appreciate that this is an extremely important law. But let me start my discussion a little differently. So pesticides are an integral part of our farmers' lives. The things that are worth today were completely different 20 or 30 years ago and we need to be aware of that. Somewhere along the way, when the topic of environmental impact assessment started, the country that went the most and we learned how to do environmental impact assessments was the Netherlands. The Netherlands, of course, has been the biggest exporter of flowers for years. When it was a topic and strategic environmental impact assessment, then we learned it from the Netherlands, and then there I saw something that wasn't the case with us and there will never be a case. There when someone goes to build a building, when they're going to build anything then they're doing a dig so the country and what has to come, the inspector comes in and determines how much pollution that country has dug up with pesticides that the Netherlands has been using for years, and then depending on pollution, that country can't go to any location. In addition, certain fees are paid depending on the pollution it was. Let's be realistic. We don't have such a case in Croatia. Just the same way when I mentioned that Netherlands out there in 2000, I used to go to my friend who lives a lot, and once I asked her what to get out of here that you don't have, and she told me to go to the pharmacy, the herbal pharmacy, and buy me an earpiece for roses. I'm gone, I bought it. I say check a little, I mean what now is the difference between ours in Croatia and yours in the Netherlands? And she said, you can still use certain resources that we in the Netherlands can't use. Of course, the next time I came, her roses were the most beautiful place she lived, and then every time I went, I had to buy more and more, and I said she'd lock me up at the border on one occasion because she was going to declare me a drug dealer who was wearing anti-oceans because the whole neighborhood was supplying. That's your reality. So it's your reality that some of the things that were worth 20 or 30 years ago are not worth it today, and we need to talk about it, and we need to see where we're going and what we want, and so we need to look at the changes that are related to the pesticides. In fact, this law defines the way or defines the training, defines the education, defines the way it's all done. What I would like to read and see from this law is the following, and it is often I have a feeling and not only that we are talking on the one hand about parafiscal intrusions and we are trying to eliminate them, and on the other hand I feel that we are passing the law introducing new parafiscal burdens. So, about education and about that extra education and the price that I think is a good idea of what education means, which means for our farmers, that fee they pay and that technical review of pesticide machines. So, a special technical review seems to me to be in the parafiscal system of new parafiscal loads and we need to think this through. The same should be considered in other situations and other stories. I didn't happen to mention it, and in the replica of the secretary of state, she tied herself to the possibility of an online sale. All EU countries really think somehow that when it comes to pesticides, they are not in online sales. Why? For counterfeiting, for lack of data management, for additional credentials. But on-line sales is a fact. She'll have to revive them sooner or later on about this, so let's look that truth in the eye and prepare ourselves for that online sale and not later on to be in wonder because it will in some way introduce really that someone who doesn't need some means to have them. And I come up with another topic that's very interesting, it's the theme of drone use. That unfortunate drone that ended up in that hole where all the officials, the prime minister and all his ministers stood and watched what happened, when that drone, the first title when I saw it, I thought it was that little drone that could be managed. The drones are the same fact, and I think it would be much better if we already knew that there are facts we have often in the legislation, I have a feeling that we are actually solving the consequences, and we are not even preventing it when we know. If we know there's a possibility of online sales, if we know there's a possibility of using drones, why don't we do it in advance and try to define it through legal provisions, the way it's managed, find what we want, because then every time we cough. When that happens, then we're going to change the laws that we iron or regulate. I think it would be much better, and it seems to me that the message should be after the second reading, that our ministry, that we should open the topic that needs to be opened at EU level, so we do not have to nod every time and wait for it to open up someone else's topic. Let's open the topic and see why we can't regulate online sales, why it's our problem. Whether we want to regulate it at all or not, as we store it, the topic opens, of course, the topic and the sale and storage and everything else. So let's run it and discuss it so we can see how far we'll go along with these happy or unfortunate drones. And something I'd like to point out is the role of the inspection. I'm the part and that's the theme I'm very happy to talk about, and I'll talk about it this time. I am the role of inspection and state inspectorate in our lives, in real life I don't experience in a way that goes somewhere, that goes around, that writes punishments and that kind of evil and said that you should know that, and you don't know that. I think that all inspectors must be highly trained, so they must have an extremely good education related to the procedure, with all the administrative legal procedures, but must also be trained professionally and related to the sector or related to the area they cover. And I always think the first arrival of the inspector should be educational. I even think that certain classes will come back or we'll go back to some kind of life or we could go through different zoom conferences that part of the lecture must be done by inspectors for all those who really do when it comes to pesticides, for all those who are people, where people can ask questions. I think it's incomparably better, and I'm sure the inspectors must also have an educational character. That question I haven't been able to ask, and what's going to be interesting is how many inspectors do we actually have? How many inspectors do we really have, how much they really work this educational part of their education, how many solutions they make, how many do they have, how much the subject of pesticides, how much use, so what's called sustainable use of pesticides in the focus of their actions, or have all the other topics, and this is kind of beneath their radar. My inspection experience is next, and I'm always saying it, and I'll always say it. We're a small country. At our house when the inspector leaves and does something I don't know in Istria that's what he finds out in Slavonia or vice versa. This means when it comes to such things, when the inspector will act and do his job in some part of Croatia, it will be seen in another part of Croatia. It's a good thing part of this law is dedicated to bees. These bees always cause a heated debate in our assembly, and it's a good thing we have to take care of that too, but somehow I decided to leave the bees for an individual debate, because they deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100063	The next club of MPs will be that HDZ will speak to the respected representative Marijana Petir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100064	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The pesticides used in agriculture and forestry for the protection of crops and other plants from harmful organisms and diseases are necessary to achieve the objectives of plant health and food security. However, excessive use and other inadequate use of pesticides may have a negative impact on soil, water, agriculture, and biodiversity. It can also have an effect on the health of plants, animals, humans. The use of plant protection funds should therefore be made in such a way that it will be adapted to the EU rules on pesticides. These regulations are of course extremely strict. Under the ‘From Field to Table’ Strategy, one of the central pillars of the European Green Plan, the European Commission has set general objectives for the sustainable use of pesticides. One of these goals is to reduce the use and risk of chemical and dangerous pesticides in the EU by 50% to 2030. The common agricultural policy is the basis for the sustainable use of pesticides in agriculture by helping farmers to protect their crops and maintain their yields, as well as to preserve agricultural ecological systems. The new CAP includes a new green architecture that will allow alternatives to harmful pesticides. For example, in the context of improved conditions of the new CAP, stronger legal standards for the correct use of pesticides will be created. In addition, a significant part of the CAP budget will be allocated to ecology programmes that can also support voluntary practices of farmers and contribute to the sustainable use of pesticides. In addition, payments for land management, investment, acquisition of knowledge, innovation and cooperation are essential for the sustainable use of pesticides and will continue to be financed in the framework of support for rural development. In an analysis developed for the national strategic plan, the European Commission noted that the trend in the reduction of pesticide risks in Croatia is more pronounced than at European Union level as well as for the trend of antimicrobials and that Croatia has a good general state and protection of natural resources as well as the greatest potential in Europe for the development of bioeconomy. Of course, this does not mean that we do not have room for progress especially when it comes to the area of sustainable use of pesticides. I would like to thank the promoter for accepting the comments made in the debate on the bill proposal because our club proposed that Article 33 nomotechnically improve, clarify and comply with the provisions of the Law on Seeds, Fruit Material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural herbs because this article caused us to worry that farmers will not be able to buy their own pesticides for the treatment of seeds as professional pesticides because some pesticides for the treatment of seeds are determined for use only by professional users for professional use. The Ministry is in Article 17. The final proposal of the law added that in order to carry out pesticide operations on its own agricultural holding, in particular the treatment of seeds of persons must be adult and have completed at least a primary school, which is a criterion for professional users and clearly requires that farmers can obtain pesticides themselves intended for professional users and treat seeds produced on their own agricultural holding. We also welcome a clearer definition of the concept of providing treatment services, which is why our representatives as well as the first-reading Agriculture Committee had observations as it could be concluded from the text that farmers will be obliged to hire a person with the necessary qualifications to treat their crops, which, of course, would require additional costs and we have warned of this. By a clearer definition, that doubt has now been removed. We also welcome a new article on the provision of non-refundable treatment services that will allow for the smooth implementation of agricultural activities for people who are unable to pass the prescribed education or who do not have pesticide devices. We also accepted in our first reading a proposal to ban the use of pesticides dangerous for bees at the time of the flowering of agricultural cultures and to prescribe infringement provisions for non-compliance with it. We think that supplementing this provision in a way that prohibits the use of pesticides dangerous to bees including honeybees, bumblebees and solitary bees should send an even clearer message of this ban and highlight how important pollinators are to our food production and that we must do everything to protect them from negative impacts. The report by the European Court of Auditors of 2020 on the sustainable use of plant protection products indicates that limited progress has been made in measuring and reducing the risk of using plant protection funds. Farmers are obliged to apply integrated plant protection, but this is not a condition for receiving payments under the common agricultural policy and the Court considers that this is a reason for not taking appropriate measures to ensure that farmers apply that practice. The application of the principle of integrated plant protection is mandatory for users, but verifications of compliance with this obligation in Member States are limited. The rules of the common agricultural policy in the Member States also require the establishment of an advisory service for agricultural holdings as well as the provision of advice on integrated plant protection to all farmers. For this reason, I will make another clear appeal that the advisory service must be capacitated because today a counselor comes to 585 agricultural holdings, which is insufficient. It is also necessary to invest in the knowledge of the counselors themselves so that they can properly advise farmers later. In short, unclearly defined criteria, deadlines, monitoring procedures and insufficient adjustment of public services that should be supporting farmers in the process of reducing the use of plant protection products are the reason why it limits the full application of the principle of integrated plant protection, thereby reducing the use of pesticides, and this is a problem affecting the whole of the European Union and to which the competent institutions of the European Union must give a response by including measurable criteria related to integrated plant protection within the framework of the common agricultural policy, but also by verifying the transposition of these rules and practices in the Member States themselves. This is important because of sustainable agricultural production, the mitigation of the negative impact of pesticides on the environment as well as on human health. When we talk about the impact on human health, the World Health Organization has shown that highly dangerous herbicides can have acute or chronic toxic effects, and they pose a special risk to children, and this is a problem that causes global concern, so guidelines and legal frameworks on the use, management and transport of pesticides, but also their storage and handling should be available to all. Although pesticides have helped us reduce the incidence of plant diseases and ensure the stability of agricultural production, we have ignored the harmful elements resulting from their use over time. With a health aspect, we must also focus on that environmental i.e. the impact that the use of pesticides has on the plant and animal world in which they are released, which disrupts natural processes in the environment. Particular attention should be paid to the control of agricultural products coming from third countries in which funds which are not permitted in the field of the European Union are allowed, which means that they are not allowed in the territory of Croatia either. Such products pose a potential risk to the health of our consumers. They are also unfair competition for our farmers and their products, and this is why we want to call once again for more frequent inspection of fruit and vegetables imported from third countries into the Croatian market, and in order to really ensure the protection of the health of our consumers and to protect our agricultural producers. This is also an opportunity to invite all our citizens to buy Croatian again because Croatian is the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100065	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDP, and will be spoken by the respected representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100066	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. As the old folk saying goes, you are what you eat, and in our case, healthy food has eaten inflation. The consumption of healthy foods and nutrition is a recommendation of every health-preservation expert, although we must be aware that the growing cost of energy purchases leads to the fact that the final product will be more expensive to produce, and thus more inaccessible to the Croatian citizen. According to data from Eurobarometer 2/3 of Croatian subjects, food uncertainty is the main factor in the purchase, and most concerned are the occurrences of cattle diseases, bacteria, and the presence of traces of antibiotics, hormones and pesticides in food. 80% of all diseases to the World Health Organization are related to food consumption. It is therefore very important to develop awareness in people about controlled use of pesticides or to seek adequate alternatives to treatment, which is the responsibility of the state to offer farmers an adequate replacement in the protection of their contribution. We have before us the Final Proposal for a law on the sustainable use of pesticides, and as a reason for the adoption of certain shortcomings in existing systems to achieve sustainable use of pesticides that need to be improved, and also to adapt to the European strategies "From Field to Table", the EU Strategy for "Biodiversity to 2030" and the European Green Plan. The European Strategy ‘From Field to Table’ was voted in October 2021. and represents a new more comprehensive approach to the evaluation of food sustainability in Europe. The strategy states that it is essential to reduce dependence on pesticides in the field of pesticide use and that the implementation of existing legislation is also essential in the field of pesticide use. The strategy defines certain objectives that need to be achieved at EU level, so that it is in fact necessary to reduce pesticide use by 50% to 2030, reduce fuel use by at least 20% to 2030, and increase areas under EU organic farming by 25%. The desire for greater production and profit was for years a strong driver of production and did not care much about the consequences of the use of pesticides. Although we must say that the trend of reduced use of pesticides and greater awareness is that people are actually aware of the importance of the production and consumption of healthy foods Croatian agriculture has no systematic support and a healthy organic product can hardly be produced that it is profitable and is available to our households. Food without chemistry is a product of added value, and it is an opportunity to produce quality foods something that needs to be elaborated in detail and where Croatian agriculture can be found. Research suggests that 65% of Croatian customers usually buy in large supermarkets, 76% pay attention to labels and declarations, and 44% regularly separates them for a quality product. We are witnessing the increasingly frequent withdrawal of products from the shelves store precisely because of these excessive and illicit amounts of pesticides. At the very beginning, the law was actually defined, the National Action Plan, is still a valid document of the National Action Plan, which has actually been valid since 2013. until 2023, a single-department audit was carried out for the period from 2013 to 2019. And that's what the report ends up with in 2021. What actually falls into the eyes first is the worst realization in the area of integrated and ecological protection of plants where out of the 7 measures, only two have been carried out. It concludes that the biggest challenge will be to accept the general principles of integrated plant protection by agricultural producers, but in particular to monitor the real application of these principles in all sectors of plant production and to measure the actual results of the activities carried out, especially those of agricultural producers who do not have professional support for integrated plant production. It is generally known that the long-term and most complex fact is what needs to be changed in established habits and to develop awareness of the harmfulness of uncontrollable and unbiased use of protective means, and the writing of instructions and the financing of research on the application and promotion of non-chemical measures in our Ministry of Agriculture is just being considered. Furthermore, in a number of provisions concerning the law, the fit sanitary information system is listed which can be used through electronic credentials or codes. However, Art. 31. It is prescribed that, until these credentials are established, authorised legal or natural persons continue to use their cards, so that possibility means that the use of the system does not exist so far. It is interesting that the deadline for establishing a new system is not stated in the provisions of the law, but is. 33. clearly states that pesticide distributors or entrepreneurs should possess adequate equipment for electronic registration of customers and sellers, and for the supply of data on sold pesticide quantities. Of course, again without the deadlines, which means that equipment should be owned from the day of entry into force of this law. We believe that such behaviour towards entrepreneurs, as well as other natural and legal persons to whom this law applies, is not acceptable and that it is necessary to prescribe, in fact, a transitional deadline for adapting to the new system. On the other hand, I have asked the Secretary of State how many information systems are planned to be acquired in the next 2nd year. for the implementation of this law or in general for the purposes of upgrade from the system used by the Ministry of Agriculture. As regards this law and the application of the phytosanitary information system on the web pages, I later saw that an offer was called for, for the delivery of offers for the production of the phytosanitary information system, and the deadline for the sale of the first, bid 1.4, amounting to €185,000 without VAT, according to this law, correct me if I am wrong, which is neither yet debated nor voted, let alone that it has entered into force. That sounds illogical, it's one thing to plan to actually purchase certain information systems, but the other is actually to implement the procedure until the law has yet to come into force. We support the digitisation of the administration as we have said with the aim of speeding up and simplifying the process, but how much of the funding from the NPOO is being financed we fear and warn that we need to follow well both gradually and procedurally as regards the procurement of these IT systems so as not to happen situations as seen in the Ministry of Regional Development. We support integrated plant protection and organic production, but we believe that other alternative farming methods should be encouraged. However, due to the inability to predict further rising prices of input costs of production, possible shortages caused by war events in Ukraine, but also other causes at global level of possible breakage of supply chains, potential pandemics or epidemics, natural disasters, special attention should actually be paid to agricultural land and people. It is necessary to create a resistant system based on small producers because of their flexibility in local production and distribution. We welcome the changes regarding the clear definition of treatment-free services. We believe that there is even more room to facilitate the obligations of farmers such as unnecessary renewal of authorisations for the use of pesticides or clearer arrangements of the spray control system, which is due to pay, and the question of how realistic and realistic this technical correctness of the device is checked. We also welcome the special protection of bees and wild pollinators and the introduction of a ban on the use of pesticides dangerous for bees at the time of the flowering of agricultural cultures, as well as the regulation of the use of pesticides on public green areas, a commission on pesticides is established, the law has established certain activities, but no financial resources are planned to be used as an application for the application of this law. The SDP Club will submit amendments by the end of the debate because we believe that the law needs to be processed and clarified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100067	On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative, Davor Dretar, will now speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100068	Thank you very much, well-respected chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, secretaries of the assembly, colleagues and colleagues. So, the Law on the sustainable use of pesticides is ahead of us, and we are also setting up a National Action Plan for the achievement of the sustainable use of pesticides. Among other things, I will briefly say about the system of education of professional pesticide users, distributors and consultants, and then of course the use of electronic credentials of an appropriate level for access to the phytosanitary information system. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. In Article 5, the following is prescribed for the performance of pesticides in its own agricultural holding, in particular seed treatment, a person must be adult and have completed at least a primary school, which is the conditions that a potential user must fulfil before accessing education and then the use of funds if, of course, he sets a course. Personally, I do not see an obstacle for a person to use funds in his own garden after being tested using the prescribed protocols. Now, as it seems in practice to obtain a certificate and complete education, there is much to depend on both lecturers and users themselves. But here are the basic features that I downloaded with a very simple and fast Internet check. Education for safe handling and use of pesticides, so called course, can be accessed absolutely by anyone as I have already said who is of age and has completed primary school. This education is most often carried out at adult education institutions. In this case, i.e. The case I found lasts six hours, it's been active for five hours, one hour is a break and it costs three hundred and twenty kuna. Now, in these 5 hours, students will learn about legal regulations, sustainable agriculture, harmful organisms, plant protection, hazards and risks of using these funds, pesticide residues, water protection, resistance, not target organisms, transport and pesticide storage, and plant protection devices. This will all be learned in 5 hours and after they pass the exam, or if they pass the exam, they will receive confirmation and, of course, the corresponding system card, in this case, will be able to use, buy and use pesticides in our agricultural pharmacies. In the way that agricultural pharmacies sell pesticides to users whether they have, or in bad cases, they don't have a card, I'll talk later in the individual presentation because I'm just not gonna make it, but the system here obviously doesn't work. The law solves or regulates the handling of pesticides, storage and handling of pesticide packaging and residues in packaging. We'll certainly be looking for better control of pesticide packaging recovery. It is done once a year, unfortunately a good part is burned in nature at the end of use. It would be necessary to consider and to force the sellers in one way to accept, to a greater extent, the refund of packagings and to issue refund certificates without which we propose, it would not be possible to buy pesticides or plant protection products again after the expiry of a certain time limit. The same is already prescribed I know will say many, but in practice I admit we see and do not live alone. The next thing we need to deal with in this law is what was mentioned, which is an integrated plant protection. So, to quote, integrated plant protection is more environmentally acceptable to protect economically important crops from harmful organisms. In addition to chemical protection measures when all others are exhausted, in integrated plant protection, non chemical protection measures such as agrotechnical measures, the application of foetuses of healthy proper seeds, etc., physical measures of mechanical destruction of weeds, preys and baits and biological measures, use of natural enemies are mostly insects and bacteria. This plant protection system aims to keep the population of harmful organisms to a tolerance. The desire is to be aware of the minimum negativeity of conventional plant protection and intensive agricultural production whose consequences are apparent. Such as soil and water pollution and the economic insolvencies of agricultural production. Integrated protection promotes biodiversity that has a function of self-sustainability of the system. All options for reducing pesticide use for food production are considered less burdened with agrochemical residues and, of course, more economically cost-effective production. This law also regulates the use of air and the notification of the same to the public. How familiar it is with our agricultural experts from the Homeland Movement, the air treatments are almost gone. Perhaps not because of the way of use, but because of the lack of pilots, shortages of course of agricultural aviation, losses in the use of funds, and by looking at the e-consultation carried out, there were attempts to facilitate the use of drones in agriculture and the use of precise agriculture as examples were seen in larger and more developed companies such as Belje d.d., but for now at least as far as we can see these proposals have been rejected. The air treatment mostly comes down to the use of pesticides in the pollination of mosquitoes, which, of course, we will wait a few more months each year and we will write and read in the paper what is happening in Osijek and its surroundings. Of course, air treatment is also used for the possible prevention of pests in forestry when there is a stronger attack of harmful species. We also welcome specific environmental protection measures, the reduction of pesticide use and the reduction of risk in certain areas that benefit the wider public or sensitive groups such as public green areas including public gardens and parks, sports and recreation sites, school and children's playgrounds, areas close to health facilities, different urban areas, Natura 2000 ecological networks, areas of strict reserves, special reserves, national parks, nature parks and other areas protected by specific regulations in the field of nature protection. So, since we mentioned Osijek, we know that in the immediate vicinity there is Kopački rit a very important national park and obviously this is the problem of treating mosquitoes or pollinating mosquitoes and the problem of protecting the national park is two problems that come into direct cohesion. It is of the utmost importance, of course, to mention Article 71 of this Law, which tells us about the need for beekeeping to be notified before the use of pesticides in a given area. We mentioned here in the opening debate, i.e. in the replicas of the situation of June 2020, when Međimurje allegedly had not directly referred to the inspectorate's findings, allegedly because of the excessive and unequivocal use of pesticides almost 60 million bees died. We heard here that the funds were found in measure 5 and beekeepers were compensated for what we absolutely welcome. We'll talk a little later, I say I'll speak in individual presentations, even in final terms about beekeeper problems not only in Međimurje. And here we finally welcome, of course, the strengthening of the control of pesticides on both public and green surfaces. Attention should be paid to the protection of the most vulnerable groups, preschool and school children, sick persons. I read that in this article, we have to admit it looks pretty well covered but the question is whether it can be improved just because vulnerable groups are primarily children who probably do not pay enough attention. The idea also came as a proposal to get to know children with the adverse consequences of pesticides, for example through part of teaching, a certain part of school hours where they would be warned about signs that warn against the ban on using such surfaces. Maybe that's what you should check with one of the primary schools or respected secretary of state, so I'll ask you later in communication and for that information. So, if we inform enough children about the danger of approaching areas treated by some of the pesticides. The law also regulates risk indicators, the provision of treatment services, reporting and the exchange of information by an authorised professional institution and the tasks of the same, the pesticide commission and the compensation and infringements and the supervision of the implementation of this law and the regulations adopted under this law. So any law that in any way increases food health, and then, of course, our space, human health and what we consume should certainly be welcomed, so this legal proposal in the second reading will also support the House of Commons Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100069	We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Marin Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100070	Mr. Reiner's esteemed Vice President, Mr. Bukarica, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Don't blame me on this intuition at the beginning of the introduction, so as much as we are in trouble, God can only help us, and therefore I invite all of you dear colleagues to whom this means something, tomorrow is at 8.30 a prayer breakfast and you show up there, it would be good for all of us, of course, to pray together to the dear God to protect us, so at the beginning. So, what I still wanted to talk about here on behalf of the club I was concise and clear, so let's do that sequence. The EU has understood how important agriculture is and how important it is to preserve the farming and food production of pesticides so that we have a long way from 2002. when they put it in their own regulation. Then in 2009, we have the same important so with regard to documents that talk about the use of pesticides and then on December 11, 2019, so on. Green new deal even when the story goes wide, but is spoken specifically about the use of pesticides. Agriculture is the main theme of the next, you know how many? For 20 years, 20 years, there is no topic that can in any way cover agriculture, self-sufficiency, organic food production. And that's why I said state secretaries and the food production action plan must be the focus of all those who have any responsibility in the Croatian people in the Croatian state. What you'd like to say, praise two, three things. So, I'm particularly interested in the story of bee protection, and that's why in art. 71. It is good that you have very studioyly developed and listed pollination and protection of bees, bumblebees and the whole story of the whole system, because in the 3rd grade, children probably know that if we run out of bees we don't get well too. And that's why I'm glad you counted on bees. You've also worked out the story of education well. We have students of the Faculty of Agronomics, of forestry who have hundreds of hours of very professional topics and it's completely illogical that these people then run for some cards, so that's what's good. What I think might be better, given our experience on drones, the much more dangerous one, I think it would be good to allow farmers to use drones in terms of dusting and everything else in agriculture itself in fields and fields. What I think would also be good, although you told me that the State Inspectorate's work is always open and clear, so the use of counterfeit pesticides is a big crime, big crime and big games are played there. And that's why this country's huge, huge state inspectorate has to do its job quality and watch out, so make sure they don't go under our radar, and some say it has strong sensors, and then we don't just get past these things that shouldn't go past us, but we're past the food that's full of toxic pesticides or the worrying ones that come along as food to the citizens of the Republic. It is important to remember that every year 3 million people believe or do not believe in pesticides, and as much as 200,000 more than 200,000 die a year from pesticide poisoning. For God's sake, not in our country, but it's mostly those poor countries and countries, but this is very, very important to talk about as well. So, once again, we protect our agricultural producers, make all of Croatia self-sufficient, save our water, protect it with the Constitution. These are the topics that we should all be focused on. Therefore, a free man has his own land and on his own land he produces something and he who has his own land and who has his own food is not dependent on anyone, and we are too few countries to depend on foreign masters. We've had enough of these foreign masters. We've had bad experience with them. Let's guard our freedom.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100071	We have several replicas, a respected representative of Ban Vlahek first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100072	Thank you. Dear colleague. It is generally known that the longest and most complex changes in established habits and the development of awareness of the harmfulness of uncontrollable and unprofessional use of protective means, and in writing instructions and funding of protection research at the Ministry of Agriculture are still under consideration. An additional major of this work was to be done by the Advisory Service that no longer exists. Can you agree with me that inefficiencies and delays in this matter are further concerned by the obligations that we have to reduce the use of plant protection funds by 50% to 2030, and in line with the European Strategy From Field to Table? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100073	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100074	Thank you, fellow Boska Ban Vlahek for asking. Well, you know what, I feel that way for you right now, but I think I share the emotions of most people in the Republic of Croatia. So when you've been hungry for a long time and then someone brings you some, and if they bring you bread, you're all happy, so if they're still oiling the fat like our grandmothers that we were when we were hungry, so fat, you say wow, man, no one's thinking about some good salad, about some meat, about some good meal, so it seems to me that we are now. that we are now. So, in 2019 we had a green new deal, we 2022 o.k. In 2002, Europe made that story. We agree now. I agree with everything you've said, it's a big problem, and this advisory part, it's a big problem, so we have one law that we think will work on our own, but that's how much I personally enjoy what's good despite being hungry for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100075	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100076	Thank you. A respected colleague who is your opinion on the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture is creating finally alternative methods, i.e. measures of cultivation in close cooperation with the academic community and civil society organisations, cooperatives and agricultural economies that already apply such alternative farming methods. We are convinced that there are many positive examples in Croatia as regards the use of alternative farming methods, and that, in fact, users or operators can actually be those who will also conduct education in cooperation with the ministry in a different way. Such a possibility may also need to be introduced into the law, but there is no question about it. So I think the ministry is missing an opportunity here to turn to small and medium-sized farmers and alternative farming methods. to actually preserve natural resources. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100077	Thank you. Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100078	What my life experience has taught me is that many times it happens that someone who's up there in some high chair mostly loses the reality of who he is. So I recommend to all my colleagues that the more often they walk amongst the citizens, go to the crying, walk the streets, talk to the people. I mean, sometimes you get a little touchy, sometimes you get a little bit on your nose, I mean, figuratively, it's whether, but God forbid it's physical. But it's important that we hear what people think. So I definitely would if it were my area, I think I'll probably never be a minister of agriculture, rather I'll be a minister of sports, but good and we'll separate the Ministry of Sports from tourism because it's amazing that the Ministry of Sports and Tourism is together. But I'm signing everything you said, and I think it's very important that we listen and hear small people, farmers. Small under quotes, of course, people who are here in everyday life with a particular theme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100079	Thank you very much. Now they're going to speak to the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100080	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected secretary of state with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues. In an individual debate about the law that we have in our second reading on the sustainable use of pesticides, I will tie myself up and talk about bees, talk about urban beekeeping. So, urban beekeeping isn't regulated with us. Urban beekeeping is not defined by law. So these are all those beekeepers who deal with this in the urban areas of the Republic of Croatia. And these bees are lawless builders, because indeed in urban areas there are and these bees are illegally living and living there. There are about 500 communities in the Zagreb area, according to some data. Those bees that are there are so popularly called turkeys and they are illegal. They are not properly regulated and the desire to regulate is to remain only at the level of desire, and is not defined. Let's see what it's like and what the world's done there. Let's say Berlin, there's a bee community out there in the Berlin Parliament, it produces honey and that honey when you visit parliament then you get one of the like souvenirs is that honey that's produced there. Let's say we see the U.S. that always go one step ahead and go this time. It is there when you live at the top of the sky and if you accidentally deal with urban beekeeping it shows you your consciousness of space, your awareness of environmental protection and everything else. Let's go see Austria. In Austria, for example, there is a bee community at the Vienna Opera, and there is also honey and that honey when you buy it is much more valuable than someone else. The fight for urban beekeeping in our country is only a struggle, even though it exists in reality. So, what was done about half a year ago and one survey among citizens and about 80% of citizens is what supports and that urban beekeeping is really regulated. It's also important to regulate, there's one board that there are individual bee communities, because it's important for reasons because there are citizens who are allergic, who have some other things. Not to say that in Croatia, or in the city of Zagreb, the theme of urban beekeeping was even encouraged because beekeeping was related to a particular association of veterans of the Homeland War, because it was a beekeeping business in the sense of certain, so that they were dealing in the sense of therapy after all that was good. On several occasions I tried with the amendment and with some other way of saying in one of the laws that you should define in the law the possibility of urban beekeeping, because when in cities you try to implement it through their decisions on communal order, then you always get because all decisions on municipal order in cities talk about you can't keep domestic animals, and bees are domestic animals. And then you can't define it through those decisions. What exactly do I want to tell you? What I'm saying is that this is also one of the laws that really speaks about it, especially the use of pesticides on green surfaces. The use of pesticides that is on certain woodwoods, that it is important to regulate it, but equally it would be good to make one step and finally regulate and define the topic of urban beekeeping because it exists, it is in nature and people are dealing with it and why I really ask this ministry of these bees, I'm talking about bees that are in Zagreb, we're creating illegal builders, we're creating an illegal use of space because it can only be good, it can be positive, it can be regulated in a good way, and we're giving it such a nice close lurk, so let's not hide, so let's just regulate, so let's define it. And this law, which also speaks of the use of pesticides in cities and urban areas, really speaks about our attitude towards beekeeping in general, especially urban beekeeping. I won't miss a single law that will define beekeeping that I'm not talking about it because I'm really sure it's one step and I'm sure it speaks for both the quality of life and what we want as a country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100081	Thank you. The replica of the esteemed representative of Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100082	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Representative Dark-Taritash, here's my question from your profession, you're an architect by profession, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100083	I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100084	The English have a quick search on the Internet and I've found the following information. The English have entered into their laws a provision, I apologize, that every building above 5 meters must have a special so-called building. Bee bricks that provide nests for bees, primarily for solitary bees. And since we know that we are expected soon in Croatia to have a spectacular reconstruction of the City of Zagreb and of course Banovina, is there any possibility that perhaps we Croats have such a law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100085	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100086	Thank you very much, thank you very much for your inquiry. So one of the, one of the colleges I had in college there in the last century was agricultural buildings, and the special colleges were even bees. I knew by heart how far away they could be, they can't be, they have to be, I mean, I've laid it like a college, and really what you're saying is a fact. And I was deliberately talking about urban beekeeping, and it's not possible for us, not because it wouldn't be good, not because it wouldn't be useful, not because it shouldn't be a step forward, it wouldn't be possible for two reasons. The first reason is that we don't have the law defined urban beekeeping, so that would be against the law, and the second reason is that there is no reconstruction, so you have no place to install it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100087	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100088	Dear MPs, urban beekeeping is certainly one of the major problems that is not currently being discussed with us, but I think that, apart from the fact that it can be regulated by law, in particular by legislation, perhaps it can be regulated by some regulation to sort of overcome the current problems that exist. Namely, bees aren't just for honey production, they're here and they're big fertilizers. If we watch a little bit of what happens in these urban areas, fruit farmers and winemakers, especially small ones put a hive or two in their orchards and in their vineyards just to increase the yield because we know what the bees are doing afterwards. What's the problem that we're going to have to avoid this is a problem with people who have allergies, and that's why we need to keep an eye on both beekeepers and little beekeepers how to deal with these communities and where they can and how to place them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100089	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100090	Thank you very much, thank you very much, dear colleague Pavić, on your replica, because every medal has two sides and nothing is, you should always look at each other. So, I went out for a pay phone with two wipes, two wipes are for the reason that I'm allergic and how time goes on more and more and more, and I don't know what I'm allergic to anymore, but as soon as something goes on, there's a lawn if you're flowering my nose, which doesn't mean I don't have to stand up for this kind of thing, but it just needs to be defined, and I need to be regulated. Once when I was a representative of the City Assembly or the City of Zagreb Assembly, we started the topic of urban beekeeping there. I was preparing for it and talking to people who are dealing with it, talking to people who call the firemen when you have in Zagreb, talking about Zagreb, because I know this situation, when you have some housing of bees that call to remove them because there was something in the assembly a few years ago also one bee house, that's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100091	Thank you. Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100092	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs Dark-Taritash, that I'll just return a little bit to the pesticides only in that sense to say how dangerous pesticides are not only for bees but for all a number of other insects that are not just pests but also many other insects are pollinators and those pesticides are destroying that too. When we talk about the city and about urban beekeeping, that I can agree with, we'll just agree with friends of animals, and with such associations we need to agree on to what extent it is, let's say they suggest something that citizens can easily experience as a messy city, which is that it doesn't cut so often that it's cheaper right now, that other insects have the opportunity to develop and that a lot more flowers, which bothers me too, what you say from a lawn, are allowed to use it then and bees.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100093	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100094	Thank you very much, colleague Matula. So, you can never, you always have to look at things with more aspects and there's never a single answer, so you always have one critical group of people who might set things up differently and that's why it's good to be discussed and that's why it's best to discuss even a little bit with the opposite parties because the truth is always in the middle. So here, among other things in this law, is really talking about how pesticides are used on public green areas, woodlands in the city and everything else. On the one hand, this controlled quality use of pesticides will be used, on the other hand it won't, and now you actually have that right measure. Things are changing and I'm, I'm not accidentally in my speech when I spoke on behalf of the club mentioned the Netherlands which use of pesticides had no idea to what level and to what extent together to turn things differently, that today everyone there is actually using pesticides to the least possible extent. So that's always it and that's how you have to look at this all, but it's much better to regulate, to define, to have rules of conduct than to pretend it doesn't exist. Since it was a replacement, I'm way out of time. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100095	Yeah, you've used that a lot, but good, you've got it. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marijana Petir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100096	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would like to thank the rapporteur once again for accepting the proposal that I made in the first reading of this law concerning better wording of the term, but also as regards a clearer definition of providing treatment services because, somehow, from the first text of reading, it could be concluded that our farmers will be obliged to employ a person with the necessary qualifications to treat their crops, which would surely require additional costs and I am glad that we have achieved clarity in this better definition for the further implementation of this act. It was also introduced, following our discussion, an additional article relating to treatment without compensation and this is a particularly important provision for those nursing households, for people who are not in a position to go to the necessary education or who may not have the necessary machinery and pesticides. I commended the first reading and the article on the proposal to ban the use of pesticides dangerous for bees at the time of the flowering of agricultural cultures and the regulation of infringements when it comes to the violation of this article. I think it is extremely important to define this especially after the unmovable events that we had in Međimurje, which resulted in the death of more than 60 million bees that of course the ministry responded immediately and quickly and secured compensation for beekeepers, but I must say that these bees are irrevocably lost, they cannot be compensated for absolutely no money, and therefore such an unfavorable event and a very negative example of inappropriate and illegal use of pesticides or insecticides must be encouraged to behave differently in the future and to follow this law consistently because the damage has been done. The pollinators are important to us because of food production, but also because of the maintenance of the biological balance, and such situations can no longer occur. The bill also proposed that the ministry carry out an ex post assessment of the financial impact of the law over a period of no later than 2 years from the entry into force of this law. This provision is no longer an integral part of the final bill, and I don't think it's a good idea to give up that provision because we are talking about pesticides that have an impact on both the environment and human health, and in the end, we've said a lot here today that unfortunately the pesticides are found in food, so I think that such an assessment might help to correct some things in the future if we didn't recognize them well because we didn't define them well at this point. It is positive that the European Commission also praises Croatia for using pesticides and antibiotics less than the rest of the EU, and that is good, and we must continue to do so. It's good to have a positive atmosphere when we talk about preserving biodiversity, that we have good trends in increasing organic production, 10% of the area, all areas today are under ecological production. But when we talk about organic production, of course here we rule out pesticides that we're talking about today, I have to say that I would like to focus more on getting a more competitive organic product on the market because it is my impression that mostly nuts and hazelnuts are prevailing, which is definitely not supposed to be our goal when we talk about organic production. We know that all these products that are grown in agricultural production, which are processed, we use for food and certainly through the use of pesticides at any stage of production we must also test these products for their presence, so it is important that in the first phase when we use pesticides we are responsible for both our health and our environmental impact. I would once again like to call for stricter controls than we have today and for a coordinated action by the Ministry of Agriculture, Customs Administration and the State Inspectorate when we talk about imports from third countries especially fruit and vegetables. We know that funds that are not allowed in the EU are used there, and this is a problem for consumer health, is unfair competition for our producers, and I therefore expect that, with the introduction of this label, proven quality of work and on the action plan for stricter control of import fruit and vegetables in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100097	Thank you very much, you have a few replicas, a truly respected representative of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100098	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Petyr, in one part of your presentation you referred and I think it is good that you referred to the first proposal, so when we had the law in the first reading, then there was also an obligation to make an assessment of the financial impact. Between the first and second readings, it's gone. Somewhere in the material I found that there was an explanation that the Legislator's Office said it wasn't necessary. It seems to me, I'm telling you because you belong to a part of the government, so the governing structure, we, if we go from opposition to something so of course it won't go away, but I think it would be extremely important and that financial part. So there's not a single law that's ideal, there's not a single magic wand, and I think it would be extremely important to follow it like you said afterwards and everything else and then make it and get really to know what it means financially.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100099	Time, thank you. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100100	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Dark Taritash. Yeah, I turned my attention to that article. In 77th and on the board because it seemed important to me regardless of the answer of the Legislative Office which apparently has some of its arguments that I am not familiar with, to reiterate that when we talk about such a sensitive law, perhaps regardless of the answer, we should consider a subsequent assessment of this regulation and the effects of the fact that we know that pesticides can really have a negative impact on the environment and on human health, but also on the very agricultural production and in this sense, it seems to me that caution is never enough. We'll see if there's a ministry that accepts our suggestion, which I repeat, so it's said it's not a commitment, but in my opinion, it would be good to do even if it's voluntary.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100101	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100102	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Petyr. Since 2013 when the National Action Plan on the sustainable use of pesticides is adopted, there are indeed huge changes in the Republic of Croatia, not only in this legislative sense but also in the field in terms of and disposal of waste, or packaging of herbicides, ways of consumption, methods of procurement, etc., of course, there is still room for improvement and this law further specifies all this. However, I would like to hear your opinion about what you think in that supply chain, the use to control which is the weakest link, and where should we give a special emphasis in implementing this law that we are adopting? So what's that supposed to do and what could be done to really bring it into some sort of desired state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100103	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100104	Thank you very much, colleague Shashin. So certainly what the European Court of Auditors has highlighted in the analyses that both the European Commission and the Member States have failed to create sufficient instruments to assess the risks, and it is obviously an area that is trusted and that needs to be done more. I also would hate to get the impression that we here now want to make some terribly strict regulations that will be an additional burden to farmers. No, we need to make a balanced regulation and you have already said that great progress has been made and that is recognised by the European Commission as well. There is room of course for progress, and on the other hand we need to hear what farmers tell us that they are insolent because it seems to them that perhaps too much under some pressure, testing the pesticides, schooling, carding that this somehow brings them into an awkward position. But it is certain that if we succeed in flexible We can get to that balance. [[Intruder Voter: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100105	Thank you. The next replica, dear fellow Shimičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100106	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues. Here we will agree that the Ministry of Agriculture is doing everything possible to create order in this sector, which is extremely important for the maintenance of the end-and-life, i.e. survival or self-sufficiency. I'm going to ask you two questions so please first, controlled use of pesticides. We know that the pesticides have done damage to the bees and now can we be sure after the adoption of this law that the bees will be protected from these pesticides? And secondly, our food is very expensive, we import all kinds of food, further machinery, fertilization, repromatter are also expensive, and we have people who work in that farm who are poorly paid. What we can actually do to popularize actually working in agriculture because we actually have a place where we can place food since we are a tourist country And that it's very important that we make a lot of food. [[Intruder Voter: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100107	Please, colleagues and colleagues, just take care of the weather. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100108	Thank you very much. Thank you, fellow Shimičević. Well, first of all, I think we're creating powerful instruments with this law to make things the way they're supposed to be, but it all ultimately depends on the individual because even this in Međimurje shouldn't have happened if we had responsible individuals reading the instructions and following the rules. It happened because someone didn't follow the rules. Now, here, once again, we stress the importance of the protection of pollinators, we say that pesticides should not be sprayed at a time when they bloom to protect bees, but we also introduce criminal provisions or penalties. On the other hand, in order to better place the Croatian agricultural product on the market, we must introduce order on the market. I advocate quality regulation so that we know what this product must qualitatively contain in order to be on the market at all, but also for stricter controls of imports because from imports as you said yourself it really comes from anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100109	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100110	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Petyr. Here I am also going to ask you about the death of a bee in Međimurje, so indeed one unpleasant event where more than 110 hives were killed, the damage is several million kunas, seven villages in Međimurje were killed, so a very serious situation. However, what concerns is the behaviour or reaction of the State Inspectorate because as we read and listened to in the media too late, a sample was taken and, of course, it created additional problems. How does it affect the work of inspectorates to make it more flexible, to be more up-to-date, at least in situations like this that are very serious?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100111	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100112	Thank you very much, colleague Vukovac. Yes, the suffering of 60 million bees is certainly something that all of us must be fraternized because of the living beings we as humans depend on as well as the entire food chain. I think the Ministry of Agriculture has been reacting here. When it comes to the State Inspectorate, they have sent an inspection into the field which found that there are residues or residences of insecticides and that this can be associated with the strengthening of the treatment of some war crops, and now I am not professional enough to say whether what they have determined is sufficient finding to prosecute someone under material and criminal responsibility. In any case, a lot is expected from the state inspectorate because all inspections are united. I think they understood their responsibility and the necessity of a spot-on response, and in that sense I see that even when it comes to pesticides, they acted to determine whether there were counterfeit pesticides on the market. Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100113	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative Kolarek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100114	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Petyr, I have a question, do you think this bill fully protects people's health? Why would I ask that? There's a lot of talk about bees, I think this law will greatly improve the protection of bees, but what happened in Međimurje is proof that pesticides, the chain of pesticide sales goes beyond the border of the Republic of Croatia, and here I find one quite big problem that is the number one, second war and influence and pressure on the state inspectorate should be as small as possible or let people do their job, but I'm primarily interested in whether you think people's health is protected by this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100115	The answer of the esteemed representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100116	Thank you, thank you very much, Agent Kolarek. I believe that everything is done and that human health and that the health of plants and animals are protected. As I have already responded in the previous replica, it all depends again on the individual who uses these pesticides and who chats with them, there are clear instructions, in order to treat the crops with pesticides at all, adequate schooling is needed, in order to be able to use spray sprinklers also these sprinklers must pass adequate control or testing. If all these conditions are met, there is no reason for someone who uses pesticides in the treatment of their crops to be in any way needlessly exposed to greater risk. That certain pesticides and herbicides contain certain substances that are problematic, that is correct and shown by some medical studies, they should be kicked out of use, and in the meantime they need to find a satisfactory active substance because we cannot lift pesticides because then they would have total chaos.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100117	Replica of the respected representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100118	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Petyr. Croatia is still not such a polluted country when looking at the European average, including the global average, Croatia still stands well there, which does not mean that it may not be the last warning bell to go with this, so this law also speaks in favour of it. Let's just remember what the Americans did with the famous DDT that trained everyone alive, destroyed flora and fauna and had a disaster, so there's no pesticide that's 100% as effective for agricultural culture and so on for human health. I think Croatia has an alternative, of course it is organic production, and ecological production requires and ecological treatments with herbicides and pesticides, and I think we should just look for our own purpose and for this added value and for what we want for greater income in agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100119	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100120	Thank you very much, colleague Ivanovic. Well, certainly Croatia has a huge perspective for the development of organic production and the growth of areas under ecological production itself says that these are trends that we need to endure in the future. Organic production excludes the use of pesticides, we should have natural resources for organic production, which must also be tailored to the needs of farmers, which seems to me not to be the case today, and in order to succeed in this venture, I think it is very important that the ministry in the national plan it makes for organic production more detailedly defines certain objectives that we want to achieve in order to really maximise the impact of that organic production and get those organic products that will be more competitive on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100121	The next debate will be the respected representative of Goran Ivanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100122	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Here's another topic that opens up the agricultural situation. Here today we may be talking about something that is just a small segment of agricultural production, which is a sustainable use of pesticides, but agriculture is a good topic and I like it when HS discusses agriculture. Agriculture is one of the strategic branches of the economy of the Republic of Croatia and I would like to commend here and the ministry on everything that makes us not only implement ourselves in the European directive but also for our country to do what is best, so here and perhaps one piece of information that speaks for it is tomorrow on the agenda of the 57th session of the Committee on Agriculture, 57 sessions here in less than 2 years, I think it clearly shows that we have something to talk about, that we have what to change, that we have what to do. Of course, here I commend the restoring, or our chairman of the committee, A petir who does a lot of things with his initiative. But one of the major problems of Croatian agriculture is, of course, unfair trade practices, unfair trade margins and the problem we will have to deal with seriously in front of us at some time, which is to separate criminals and petty thieves from the real farmers. I think that perception of Croatian farmers loses meaning because people who do their jobs fairly in agriculture and when it comes to the use of pesticides and herbicides know exactly what they are doing, the way they do it, and they have no idea how to poison themselves or others. So that's one of the important things. The pesticides and herbicides are necessary for better agricultural production and there is no speech. Here's one piece of information that might fascinate some. So 35% of the world's total food production never reaches consumers. So, because of the poor storage, that food is going down. Of course, certain chemical ingredients are needed to preserve food and to reach the end consumer. That is why we should work on it anyway. I mentioned a famous DDT that was considered an all-powerful herbicide that would solve all agricultural problems eventually left the burned country and only in 2001 did the United Nations pass the DDT ban law as a means for global treatment. Therefore, there is no saying herbicides and pesticides that are 100% effective nor necessary. So digitalization of agriculture, smart spraying, smart fertilization, that's the future of Croatian agriculture, that's basically the future of every agriculture. Because why would they spray a whole field of 50 or 100 ha if only one part of that field was polluted by certain weeds. So, with the drone system, the tracking system, and everything else, it can be absolutely solved. Biological diversity is something that we have to look out for, because when we destroy birds, when we destroy insects, when we destroy frogs, it significantly reduces agricultural production perhaps not in the first, second or third year, but in the long run it's very important. And that is exactly where I see our opportunity in these green policies, in the ecological policies which, of course, the European Union. But Croatia I say is not such a polluted country when it comes to pesticides and herbicides and we have a good chance unlike some countries that have destroyed their soil that at least they will have to rest for the next 20 or 30 years. That's good, so all this law also brings along with these remarks and here's the Committee on Agriculture and can bring good to farmers. I don't think it's a waste of time, but it's like I said in a replica of the secretary of state, so I'm going to say now in the end. If I look forward to something today, tomorrow and the day after, it's a rain that will rain and will mean dry gold for Slavons, Baranjas and Srijemce. Because let's be honest, if it didn't rain for another seven or eight days, we'd have a terrible problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100123	We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Šimičević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100124	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, I'd like to congratulate you on the 57th session of the committee you'll have tomorrow. It means you're doing good and good, and clearly we're all looking forward to the rain. Let it rain, especially for us farmers to grow potatoes if nothing else. Here's a joke on the side, you were talking here about two things. So these problems that are present in agriculture, which is crime, that is, unhealthy competition that needs to be stopped anyway, and you were also talking about digitization. It's extremely important that we have a technology that we can just record some large surfaces, see where there are weeds and treat that part alone. And that way we'll certainly get better food, but we'll produce more. We clearly need to invest a lot of money, and we must not stop at it, but really make agriculture the way we want it to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100125	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100126	Thank you very much. Here's how I said I had a chance to visit some major systems that deal with what I was talking about and really the man remains fascinated as far as technology progressed today and the way problems in agriculture can be solved today. Of course, these are big systems, and we want such systems for small ones, even though little ones aren't so small anymore. It's manufacturers that produce at 50, 100, 150, 200 ha. Let's be honest, it's a relatively large production. In order for it to be more profitablely structured, to make these productions more profitable, this is what it needs. I am pleased that the European Commission's common agricultural policy is talking about exactly what we are talking about. Digitalization is the key to success. I hope the ministry will also have certain measures and programmes that will encourage small yes They get involved in this. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100127	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100128	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Ivanovic, you come from a region where agricultural production is the key to everything and, unfortunately, without the use of pesticides, it is still unfortunately unimaginable. I'm curious, you're often in contact with agricultural producers mostly these and small ones, etc., I'm interested in their reactions to these changes and laws and regulations that regulate the use of pesticides, how they react to whether they're sufficiently educated, whether they're enough with this education that they're going through at these courses, or perhaps through an advisory service, etc. to bring this problem closer to them, so that they truly understand the importance of the sustainable use or use of pesticides. There he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100129	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100130	Thank you very much. The advisory service is the backbone of agricultural production, without the advisory service there is no successful agriculture and I think strengthening this segment is one of the priorities and ministry, and of course the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would say that the real producer has no problems, for him is the law, the law, some took part in a public debate and made certain comments and they have no problems. We have problems with these who are still inclined to smuggle goods from third countries which were also spoken of by the board president to use funds banned in Croatia under the pretext that they are much more effective, and that is a lie. These are the means that can bring great damage to agriculture. Therefore, they say that prevention is the key to the success of each profession and so is agriculture, hence prevention, education and respect of the law I think is the key that can lead us to...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100131	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When you say the number of the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture which is next, I am no longer sure if you praise me or read me, but I can promise you that I will continue to convene meetings because they give results and yet through this address of our problems that farmers are passing on to us, we are able to influence certain provisions of the law, improve them and help farmers come together to quality solutions. There have been some practices here that are not quite fair or appropriate, and in the meantime I asked the State Inspectorate to actually see how many counterfeit pesticides there are on the market, and it seems that according to this report that I received for 2020, only one counterfeit pesticide was found, which was withdrawn from the market, and the perpetrator was punished. However, when we talk about other categories of plant protection, it was also verified whether plant protection products had the right properties and whether they were in line with the registration decision in the Republic of Croatia, and there were several cases who were out of the law. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100133	Dear Representative Ivanovic [[Intruder Petir: Do you agree that there is a need to strengthen control?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100134	Thank you very much. Of course I praise you and look forward to the 60th session of the jubilee which I am sure we will celebrate a little more solemnly than these ordinary ones, and I look forward to it, of course. Just what you said, so one product has been discovered but is enough to clear all those who honestly and honestly and work with pesticides and herbicides, store them in a certain way or legally way, and then when they wear them out, they also return them to the law. Now, that even among producers under these legal means there are those who want to push things through, of course the competition is fierce, they all want their preparations to be number one on the market and that's what's happening. But I welcome and knew nothing about unfair trade practices until I came here to HS and learned it from you, and now I am the chief advocate of being one of the biggest problems of Croatian agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100135	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100136	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. He's a colleague of Ivanovic's. How important agriculture and food production are, especially in modern times, the uncertain situation we are in, but requires the introduction of always new measures and new acceptable methods and techniques. So we have in the protection of plants we have biological measures, biotechnical measures and methods of sterile insects, so these are that this should be done to educate farmers, agricultural producers, associations, cooperatives, and leaders of local self-government units. I think these funds are more or less the Ministry of Agriculture has provided all the funds so I'm interested in how to motivate and educate both our farmers and all the ones I've just listed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100137	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100138	I would say very simply, such topics must be the focus of the Croatian public. Unfortunately, they are not the ones in the focus either of us who are going to raise our hand to this law, let alone the ones to whom it must come. But it is so in Croatian society. I said education and prevention are the key to success especially when it comes to herbicides and pesticides. Of course everyone thinks they know very much about it and everyone will say that they are harmful, that nobody reduces, but there are herbicides and pesticides that can be said less harmful... More old Sumerians worked and sprayed certain cultures because they realized that this would increase production. Therefore, I agree with you when agricultural topics are on the HS agenda, but I would like that visibility to be much, much higher and here in the assembly. and especially in the Croatian public. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100139	Dear Representative Saturday.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100140	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague. I don't really have a question, but I would like your opinion, and on the subject of the education of professional users, distributors and advisors more specifically than education obligations, although we've already heard this in HS today, which I, in fact, welcome these exceptions, has somehow been somewhat illogical to me so far that those people who have graduated from agriculture and agronomic colleges and forestry colleges needed additional educations, especially those who used pesticides and for private purposes or for private purposes. What's your thinking about...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100141	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100142	Thank you very much for asking. Reverend Dretar was saying something about it. I agree that in five hours we may not achieve anything, but we will fast, at least we will open the topic. Agriculture is like any segment of life. Lifelong learning and we are still learning about agriculture today with all the profession we already have, along with all the technologies we have, but we are still learning about some things and we realize that some of the things we previously thought were good that are now very harmful and that they are very dangerous, ultimately and global climate change makes us do it. In any case, with respect to agriculture, that part of the training, the learning of every real farmer, and it will not bother him, even though it will be a major challenge for him.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100143	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Niksha Vukas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100144	Vice-President of the Assembly, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, so here is my fellow Ivanovic, who inspired me when he said that crime should be eradicated in agriculture and that you will have full support from us. If you have any knowledge push that you will have full support. And secondly, everyone's talking about pesticides and herbicides. The pesticides are, pesticides are the topic today on which we need to change the world of people. So there's nothing we can do about legal regulation if we don't change people's consciousness, what I've been saying in the name of the club here, we need to get people to know for themselves when they've taken some kind of plant protection product, which is a pesticide or a dedicated agent of herbicide to destroy weeds that they can risk someone's life tomorrow. And that's the point. So an excessive dose of putting that product on the market or disrespecting a withdrawal, you've automatically compromised some life. And that's the topic we need to discuss, and there should be full support for the State Inspectorate or the Ministry of Agriculture's inspection as it used to be. This puts everything else within the framework of the regulation that people who do so must be educated, that machines must be attested, that responsible persons must be aware and that they must have knowledge and pass that test in the end so that they can be responsible at all and be managed by it is clear to all. But what we need to communicate further, says 10% is organic, but we once have to go out with a balance of organic products that we put on the market. I haven't heard any organic products yet, how much organic corn we've produced, how much organic vegetables we've produced, how much organic meat we've produced, what control cells have certified and whether there are any irregularities. When we talk about the counterfeiting of pesticides, I've done it in the profession for a long time, and I haven't seen much, and I'm not surprised that there's only one example that someone wanted to fake it, but unfortunately there's a lot of black goods in the market, stolen goods from factories, stolen goods from agricultural pharmacies, and of course some people who come here dealing in the field, and that's why we need to put up a watch-up inspection to get that, to get rid of it. This bill should certainly not only be viewed as a bill of law but we should look at what we have done to change people's minds, that people know what these poor application of these pesticides do and what we need to encourage in the future to apply pesticides with smaller karenca, pesticides that pollute less and soil, which pollute less the environment, and above all help organic agriculture. We can't raise organic agriculture overnight, but gradually as we do, we need to raise it, we need to give the whole export to organic agriculture and not just watch how much we are, is it 10%, or is that 100,000 hectares of agricultural products under the ecological, agricultural countries under organic farming, but we need to see how much we've produced, how much we've exported, how much our final consumers have consumed and we need to help these distributors and these and these producers to find a common language so that they don't come into collage between the manufacturer and the distributor that takes the higher price than the one they produce, and these are the topics that we need to discuss. We will certainly support the laws on pesticides because it is undeniable to put it within the framework, that it should be controlled, and that, in so doing, when we safeguard this Law on the sustainable use of pesticides, we are practically protecting consumers, and that is what we protect our citizens and citizens, and that is our duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100145	Replica of Honored Representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100146	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I am pleased that we are all talking so much together about education and the need to raise awareness, so here's Article 54 has this very name of informing the public and raising the level of awareness, so I have specifically circled myself because I find it interesting. If you go a little online watch as I watched in preparation for this point then you can find anything. There is also a manual on the sustainable use of pesticides that speaks about the preparation of pesticides, disposal, packaging, first aid in poisoning, etc., probably some of them are taught on those educational workshops. However, I think that there are still cases in practice, and that we know that in the healthcare system we are doing that happens to us, people who are unhappy with the poisoning of certain pesticides are coming. So as many as they have passed a certain education, there are still situations to come to us, and it should certainly be pointed out that they must have protective equipment that they sometimes do not have, in the summer months, and must have a packaging with them that says how to carry out first aid. So, not enough is obvious works on that education raised awareness. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100147	Dear Representative Vukas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100148	Well, I don't think it's enough to do anything, but it's almost nothing, and that's a big problem. Therefore, the overall situation is that we must act educationally. We can't hit agricultural producers repressively now. Of course we have to follow, we have to follow the distributors, but I agree with you that we even failed that test because what I can say from my experience is little people use protective equipment, few people adhere to that dose or quantity only because some people think that if they put 10% more of a herbicide, they'll have a better effect. No, they're just going to spend more money and they're going to pollute the soil, and the effect is going to be the same. But these are things that have to be spoken, spoken, spoken and educated for years because every time we talk about agriculture, we can have 57 board sessions and 100, but the situation doesn't improve. And that's what makes me sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100149	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100150	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow I support integrated plant protection and organic production, however, I believe that other alternative farming methods should be encouraged. However, due to the inability to predict further price increases in the entry costs of the production of possible war-related shortages in Ukraine, as well as other causes of global, natural disasters and others, particular attention should be paid to agricultural land and to the producer himself and to humans. Do you think it would be good to create a resistance system based on small producers because of their flexibility in local production and distribution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100151	Dear Representative Vukas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100152	Well, look, there are always small producers who are welcome to locally distribute their products, and there they need legal regulations and state aid to do so. Integrated agriculture certainly supports it myself, but what we must do, we must allow our agricultural producers to choose their own model for agricultural production, whether they will deal with conventional, whether they will deal with integrated or organic agricultural production, means that we must not discriminate against anyone here, but surely when we see what happens to climate change and growth, the percentage of the growth of malignancies must give priority to organic agricultural production and that we need them to help them to finish our products on our shelves, but also that citizens can pricely monitor and buy and consume it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100153	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100154	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Vukas, I'm not upset with your parliamentary debate, even though I think it was compatible with mine, and you agreed not to believe that only one product was a fake on the market that was much bigger, means that these criminals and thieves I was talking about were somewhere and that we should work to get rid of them together and finally that agriculture breathes through with their lungs. But what you have pointed out and what I will absolutely agree with is that you know what you're talking about, and we who are not a profession, and we've learned a lot about it already, that the future of Croatian agriculture is precisely in this, in ecological means for the treatment of organic crops and for the less poisoning of the land that Croatia has. And let's be honest, Croatia still does not belong to a group of European countries that has so much poisoned soil that it could not, most of it produces it in an ecologically sustainable way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100155	Thank you. Dear Representative Vukas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100156	Oh, I didn't get upset and I didn't say anything, you misunderstood me, I didn't, I said that one product doesn't surprise me because I know it's hard and fake pesticide, but what happens on the market is like I said that various people come won't, I won't say in any way, that they smuggle it illegally or in black, and that's that, right now, yes, that's one thing. And the other thing is, it's a good thing we still don't have, we have practically preserved land, but we have it because our agricultural production rate is not at the level of one Netherlands or Germany, because then we would have more productivity, but we have more pollution. If the rest of the peaks were what they were and if they were using technologies and if these technologies were being followed because of Europe, we would have maybe 20% to 30% more polluted soil than we have today, so we have to decide what kind of agriculture we want, what amount this agriculture is, and we can't force our peasants to deal with, with all due respect for organic agriculture, we have to look out for conventional food shortages. Here, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100157	Dear Representative Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100158	Dear colleague Vukas, you're a man of the profession, you've worked in the profession, and you've said two things nicely, motivation and conscience, how does it affect that? Do you agree with me that the greatest motivation and the greatest influence on the conscience of those who deal with agriculture and use pesticides is the price of their work or profit for the product they produce? Working in, I'm a veterinarian, I've worked with a lot of agricultural producers, and I see that, and I've noticed that such agricultural producers have been the most motivated who have seen their big profit in the product and that the work they've done in agricultural production is worth it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100159	Thank you. Dear Representative Vukas.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100160	So here's the good you said, so we have self-awareness, we have responsibility, and on the other hand we have this manufacturer who wants to produce as much as possible. But I think it's all going out of your house, going out of the house, going out of the family, going out of the neighborhood and having to work pressure because surely I wouldn't support anyone my neighbor to go, if it's... And if he knows that some strawberries will be harvested in 3 days to go with some anti-bothritis means because he is aware that he may lose 5 or 10 or 15 thousand kuna overnight and it is now a question of man whether he will release those 5, 10 or 15 thousand kunas or he will fire some anti-bothritis agent, no one will see it because he can't see it and he's put that stuff on the market, and we don't have that kind of control that's gonna find out if then we should have a hundred thousand agricultural inspectors that can cover all the sales, sales, sales places where this stuff is sold, but it's practically, there's a long way ahead of us, we don't see that shift overnight, here. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100161	Thank you very much. Now, the honourable representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100162	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Vice President and the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate. I've already asked you a question in the replica of your opening presentation about pests attacking palm trees all over the coast, above all Dalmatia. Now let me get this straight and I'm asking you to do something about it. So, it's 2011 already. There have been two pests in Croatia, one palm tree that attacks the marbles and these high and low, and the other one is a red pipe or a red African pipe that attacks those Washington and Canary dates. One adult canary date plant costs you somewhere and 20 thousand euros each, means a tree grew up to 20,000 euros, means 150 thousand kuna. For example. These are the trees you were planted here I am sorry that there is no Mr. Opara he can confirm, which you were planted on the Riviera in Split, that beautiful tree palm tree in Split. Of course, of these 20,000 euros to lower, but palm trees are very expensive and are growing extremely slowly. Palms came to Croatia about 110 years ago, and just then the palmization of Dalmatia first and they became a symbol of Dalmatia and the entire coastal Croatia, but in particular Dalmatia and hundreds of thousands of trees planted in Dalmatia. Today of those hundreds of thousands of trees, I will surely say there are only a few thousand, several thousand trees left. So it's not about decimating, it's about the fact that these trees are gone. Since I also have an affinity to it and I have worked in the system of nature protection I have tried with many units of local self-government, starting with my Sibenik and then further talk and influence them to solve the matter. Unfortunately, on your side of the ministry here since 2011, today is the year 2022. It's not just your mandate for this government, I've never heard of you sending specific instructions to fight these pests. People don't know, small units of local self-government here I'm going to tell you an example of Sumartin in Brač, I often stay there, I have my own family on Brač. I've tried ten times to explain to that small municipality and the chief and the people who are in charge of what they need to do. It wasn't made, and one of the 30 beautiful palms of these canary dates failed. It's an irreparable shame because that palm tree has been growing for 60 years to come. No one. The place is mutilated. The city of Split managed to save 300 palm trees and that's it. Sibenik has suffered, and it is about treatment, a preparation that costs 30 kuna and 30 kuna with one drill and 30 kuna products save the palm. And those 30 kunas are not for you or 40 not to lie for one year, but in five years you've got one palm. And no one sent instructions from the ministry, send a memo today if there are some palm trees that have been saved, send instructions on what to do, which are authorized companies to protect these palm trees. So I'm responsible for telling you that we lost because of these two pests, palm treewood and African pipe here's a hard thing to calculate, but maybe hundreds of millions of euros maybe. Let's do the math means only a few thousand palm trees, but those palm trees that are left over are in Split. Split has also done a partly good job, protecting those palm trees in the hitting places and in hotel settlements. Where there's a boss, it's done, so hotel-sized high-rises, for example. Solaris near Sibenik they may have a thousand palm trees not failed, they stand, they protect them because it costs them. So, Madam Secretary of State, here I have criticised you a little bit, but perhaps late in fact, even though it's not the first time I've talked about this in HS, today when you return after this debate to the office, please send a letter to all units of local self-government and regionally, find some direction, a solution that people can act. They don't know, they don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100163	Thank you. Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100164	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, you draw attention to a problem of the silent dying of palm trees, and in the meantime, as far as I understand, there have been some agro-technical measures where more resistant cultivators would break down. In the cases listed by the experts, it is not obvious that they are consulted by local self-government units to apply those measures that would heal the wounds where certain palms may have been removed, and you expect the ministry to react there as well. It seems to me that a logical sequence would be that these units of local self-government that are somehow the primary activity dedicated to their citizens to tourism recognized this problem and reacted in time. I hope that this kind of reverse procedure where you call on the ministry will yield results because I agree with you that the reaction is necessary and that the reaction must be urgent until the disease continues and until we are left without all palm trees.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100165	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100166	Dear fellow Petyr, thank you very much for your replica. I agree with you and first they need to respond to local self-government units, but this is now an opportunity for me to ask that question and to update this topic with the ministry as well. I actually said in the debate that local self-government units don't have personnel, people who are educated for it. Sometimes it's inappropriate, we have 600 units of local self-government as many as we have, okay not everything in the coastal belt. I agree first of all, it's their fault so this is one big criticism to all the mayors, mayors, all the mayors who haven't responded, and almost no one has responded. But here's two instruments, we have on the side of the country, although I have to say unfortunately late. So maybe we've got that palm fund left here, and it's rough for me to say, I'm talking from the Sibenik context, maybe there's every hundred palms left, every hundred. So we lost a few thousand palm trees in Sibenik over the last few years.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100167	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100168	Respect to everyone one more time. In these five minutes as my individual debate, I will actually read you an article, to be perfectly correct, I will suggest that the author is Nedjeljko Jusup, and the article is on the Agrokluba.hr website. The man is very current and I must admit completely correctly wrote the following words, many agricultural producers ask if we must attend a course of sustainable use of pesticides. Cards that are obtained cease to be valid after 5 years, and in most agricultural pharmacies when buying plant protection products do not even ask for a license, so they tell farmers to spend 5, 6 hours or even 2 days sitting on what they say there for a lecture, after completing the exam and all of this paying for several hundred kunas. I would like to remind you that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture a National Action Plan for the achievement of the sustainable use of pesticides in June 2013 and the plan was of course submitted to the European Commission and to all Member States. Professional users, distributors and advisers in pesticide sales and food production, regardless of their acquired education, must demonstrate that they possess adequate knowledge of pesticides. The evidence of having the necessary level of knowledge is a certificate of the examination and, of course, an appropriate identity card. According to the mentioned legislation, plant protection products intended for professional users should only be sold in specialized shops, they are agricultural pharmacies in Croatia. Only employees who have passed the test from an appropriate module and also a valid card may sell them. But unfortunately, the situation in the field isn't exactly like that. The article also states that two cases from the real life of people who were in agricultural pharmacies say they saw it with their own eyes, the man came in and said, he wanted to buy one of the insecticides that belonged to a group of funds intended for professional use, bought it without the seller looking for a valid card. Another case is the real Croatian, one customer wanted to buy insecticide from the pyretroid group, these are insecticides of a very wide range of actions both harmful and beneficial organisms and require exceptional caution when used. The saleswoman asked for a card, the man said I don't have a card and now, of course, the woman still wants to sell something that day, asked if any of your family or friends had a brother, and he said there's a brother, and there's a name, last name, Mrs. Knock Database, here's a brother, and he's selling it without any remorse. In the following, I will list several dangers of such behavior. First, it's sold to an unprofessional person who doesn't know how to handle it. He can also be poisoned during his work, and then the police will wonder how he came into possession of the specified means to which he was poisoned. Does he know how to use it professionally? How will it determine the dose, the concentration, at which of the crops will use the said means? Here's another fact. A number of olivers still use insecticides of the active substance cypermethrin that comes into the market under the commercial name Fastac or Direct. Cypermethrin is not registered in olive production and preparations produced where it is an active substance not authorised for use in olives. So we really need to ask ourselves what are the dangers of using funds that are not authorised in certain agricultural cultures. It is clearly unknown their karenca or time to pass from last application to harvest, which is expressed in days. In addition, the rest of the plant protection products on agricultural products is unknown during processing or consumption in a fresh state. It is not known whether the maximum allowed concentration of pesticide residues expressed in milligrams per kilogram of agricultural product is exceeded and is not dangerous for human and animal health. Here, since my time is coming to an end, I'm left with a final debate in which I'm going to end up with this whole story. But the fact is that the law can prescribe much, and unfortunately, the situation is not fully developed on the ground in accordance with the legal provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100169	We have the replicas of the respected representative Zekanovic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100170	Dear fellow Dretar here you have pointed to one problem that is obvious, which is exactly, perhaps I'll set you up this way. Today here I wanted to protect my palm tree and I had two options, one is to call an authorised agronomist and pay for it 5,000 or manage and buy a preparation for 40 kuna and protect the palm tree for 3 years. And that's now, so we're going to pass that law and this is okay that we have education and that there are authorised persons, but I have one single palm tree in the yard and to save it I have to finish the course in order to buy that preparation, I have to be educated to actually treat my palm tree or have 3-4 thousand kuna in my pocket and one palm save. It's here you can find someone in between a solution or something that people like, so they only have 1 palm, 2 palms, for example. that they can protect them in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100171	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100172	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zekonovic, yes, the situation is very plastically displayed. If you have 1 palm, the problem is either to take the exam, invest, invest in yourself and in some knowledge or of course bypass the case. The same system or example of real life is mine too, I am here in Zagreb I have a large yard under concrete tiles from which at this time of year began from all those powerful openings to break various grasses, weeds, any herbs, I do not have a professional course, I do not have an adequate ID, but I believe that I will be able to use some intercoal agreement with my colleague Pavic from the Social Democrats Club somehow to buy me a so-called. Total and then I'll spray my fertilizers. Yes, I understand your problem and the fact is that the law here may need to be much more precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100173	Don't talk so publicly about the abuse of this, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100174	Your Honor, I'll buy it, and I'll come to you, and I'll spray it for you, and I'll finish school. Uh, I wanted to draw attention to you that what you said today is that we all need to work together to draw attention to the need for training, that schooling is necessary because without it, it's about actually waking up awareness especially with amateurs to know what they're using and how they're using. In fact, it's a problem, it's also a problem with the manufacturer because in the instructions for use, for example, you have that consumption is, say, 200 liters per 1 hectare and I don't know two liters of pesticides in that amount. How are you going to calculate that on your five apples? No way. It is therefore very important that manufacturers of these pesticides write it in some normal units, meaning so many decilitres per 10 liters of water or some other measure that is recognizable to the people who use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100175	Thank you. Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100176	Thank you very much. Thank you, well-respected representative Pavić, for the question and, of course, for offering to come and by your knowledge and, of course, by working out solve the problem that I have that we do not have to do as the Honored Chairman said to enter the illegal activities. Most of all, thank you, and I believe that we can leave together as people who come from the Croatian Zagorje and give Zekanovic a palm spray. Well, here's if someone's an expert on maintenance and cultivation palms, we're Zagorci for sure. But joke aside. It is certainly necessary to work extremely hard on education, because all MPs and MPs here today said one of the things that is notorous, which is that we manage and use extremely toxic means for both humans and animals, both for plants and for the environment and certainly for the environment. Education, education and education are needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100177	Dear Representative Zeljko Pavić will now speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100178	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed secretary with an associate. I only answered to draw attention to a few things that are right now here's a real problem especially with a hobbyist breeder, so to speak, to call them amateurs. The first problem is getting the packaging back. Once ten years ago, perhaps, it was said in the law that the return of the packaging would be possible in a store where you bought a certain pesticide, or a certain asset, but today these obligations are no longer available. Therefore, when you spend pesticides or protection products, you have no place to return them. I know that's it, it says in the law that it's regulated by the Community Waste Management Act. However, what happens to places that do not have a recycling yard or if that recycling yard does not receive that waste? So we have a problem here, and that should somehow be regulated either by law or by sublaw. And it's not just about the return of packaging, it's about the return of neutral pesticides that expired. It's usually thrown in the trash or with other waste, which is not good, and also one big problem of taking care of made mixtures that have not been spent. Namely, when you spray in an orchard or vineyard if you have 10 or 15 liters left and the mixture you have already made you need to put it somewhere, you need to take care of it somewhere. If you don't take care of it the right way, then we're actually polluting the environment, polluting nature, and that's where we should work out a little bit. There was one suggestion that the user could not buy the asset unless he returned the packaging. That would be all right if you were always shopping in the same store. Unfortunately, trade is not even connected in the same trade chain, in order to know who bought which asset and whether he returned the packaging without talking about not only buying in other shops in the same city or within Croatia, but also buying in the countries of the Union, not talking about what was mentioned earlier. I think that's what my colleague Dretar mentioned, it's black-and-trafficking from neighbouring republics because they're allowed in there, they're not, so it's due to a lower price or perhaps a recognizable way of using imports from the outside. Secondly, I would like to remind once again that especially for amateur growers, i.e. hobbyists, it is very important to schooling and informing, given that here just before and cited the example itself is difficult for amateurs, hobbyists to identify which ratios should actually be put to use, this means being used in the right way and that this is not excessive use of the means. Unfortunately, it often happens today that you come to a drugstore, buy that asset, and then the seller himself, who, of course, finished his course, finished his education for that, that he warned you that you should put a little more, because that's not what it used to be. So we know what it says in the means of use, if it's recognizable, we should actually communicate with them, so that everyone uses it and that consciousness wakes up with all those who have their own households and they've finished their course. Otherwise another note to Mr. Davor, there's a free chance of coming to you for free, that someone is writing to you even in law. So here I know you're not cheap, so that's how you handle it. I further appeal to the secretary and associate to try some sublegal act or some other law in some way to stimulate the production of natural insecticides. Here I am, an amateur, doing a little vineyarding, a little fruit growing, a little bit of everything, a lot of work, and a little use. However, if you use homemade pesticides, natural insecticides will give you a much better quality product. And then if we remember a little bit what our grandparents were doing, our grandparents, that they were using a nettle, that they were using, like, a hren, garlic, onion for some means, not to mention a flea. So a Dalmatian flea that's far away known as a natural insecticide. I think that by stimulating the production of such natural insecticides, we could contribute to a healthier diet for our population. Namely, today it's hard in nature to find the nettle anymore, it's hard to find the hren, it's hard to find the pollen. These are all the funds used to fight the intruders. Today, unfortunately... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100179	Thank you. We have a few replicas, a respected representative, Maric, first of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100180	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you have listed many things that really need to be further explained and communicated. Here I went to look a little at the pages of the Ministry of Agriculture and I came across a menu of plant protection and frequent questions and answers related to the sustainable use of pesticides, and there are really a number of questions, and also offered answers that may interest what is physically, which legal persons, among other things, who must access education, etc., therefore whether you are a professional or not professional user is not dependent on the size of the area you are processing or having an OPG but on the type of means used, and among other things, there is a question about how to provide the remaining funds or packaging, and also on these sites, and the law says that it is regulated by the regulations on waste management, but we have no more detailed information. So, I've been asking around in my nearby neighborhood, agricultural pharmacies don't collect, you really have to take that packaging out of your home and then, once or twice a year, eventually collect that packaging, but people don't know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100181	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100182	Yeah, I've given myself a hard time, and I've read this part of the municipal waste bill, the disposal of municipal waste. There it is difficult for the average reader to recognize where and how to act, namely it does not write explicit packaging of pesticides being taken care of so and so on or delayed here and there, although it can be read that it should actually be put down in the recycling yard, but the problem is that they do not have all the places, especially small places do not have their recycling yard and it happens to you that simply people and, then, these packagings collect funds that have expired in the basement until some time, and then all the other waste is thrown into the trash with all the rest of the waste, and actually after that, there are problems because it ends all in the same place where it might not even have to end with the rest of the waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100183	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100184	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Representative Pavić, in our northwestern Croatia we know and we ourselves have very many fragmented agricultural properties, smaller areas, therefore we cannot apply some tactics, some strategies such as those on large areas, such as what are in Slavonia or Baranja. But here I came across another interesting proposal to compare records from agricultural pharmacies sold to protect plants with areas and crops where or where purchased funds can be used. This may be another effective way of controlling, selling, buying and using, of course, plant protection funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100185	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100186	Thank you for this notice, I wanted to talk to you about, by the way, information systems that should follow that part, that part of the business and the drugstore and actually people who use it. However, we have one problem because these resources can actually be obtained at Union level, if you do not go black, then get somewhere in the neighborhood in countries that have different regulations. Now, what happens to us in Croatia, what happens within maybe a trade chain or what happens within the state, that could also be followed by a good information system, and of course we should then set up a control system to see what was spent and when it was spent, means it doesn't matter how much was spent, but it was spent, for example, at a time of blooming when it hurt the bees or it was spent just at the time when it should be spent. So, if I agree with you, if there was a record, it's not exactly a cheap system because all the drugstores or all the sellers, you can also be careful at the mixed goods store to sell these assets if you meet the conditions, if you have a separate room or if you have that closet as it says in the law, so you should all be connected to a unique system, and that's hard.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100187	Thank you. Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100188	Dear fellow, here, given that there are various cases I have pointed out one specific case, a case of palm trees that have been attacked with these pests that I have just mentioned, is it possible for you to decide that each unit of local or regional self-government if JLS is too small has its own professional service which, or an intervention team where it would have authorized persons who might then have a minimum amount or not for some market price but rather a price that would actually settle costs, for example. palm trees in private courtyards that are really adornment of the whole place, and it's simply not possible for the owner of one or two, three palm trees to be neither educated for treatment, nor allowed to treat their palm trees against these insects?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100189	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100190	I thank you for that question. It says in the law that, in fact, free intervention can be sought to be carried out by a professional, but the question is whether these professionals really exist in JLS or should be formed by those services. We know that there are various inspections, but simply a person who can treat a plant is a big problem. And I agree with you it would be good if such an institution existed that could do, for example, as a deratization is carried out. If, for example, those who conduct the deratization to dress further so that they can carry out that part of the protection of plants. We have a big problem, it's not just private palm trees in private courtyards, it's also about forests. Don't forget to say Split, Marjan has a problem with pine forest, we have a problem with chestnuts, so-called chestnuts. chestnut tumor. Here we are in Zagorje, practically wild chestnuts, and it's almost gone, that's the pitomat we're eating, no. So we have big problems, and if we were to do it systematically, it would certainly be much better.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100191	Thank you. Let's go to the final presentation, first of all on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Honorary Representative Stipan Sashlin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100192	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's another legislative proposal harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. This bill is a very thorough, comprehensive and very precise definition of the tasks and roles of all stakeholders in the implementation of this law. This law regulates the National Action Plan to achieve sustainable use of pesticides, the system of education of pesticide professional users, distributors and advisers of the use of electronic credentials for access to the phytosanitary information system, the system of distribution and sale of pesticides, the handling of pesticides, storage and handling of pesticide packaging and residues in packaging, the keeping of data collection and keeping records, the use and regular review of pesticides, information and awareness-raising of pesticides, measures to reduce the risk of pesticide use and the fundamental principles of integration and integrated plant protection, specific procedures and use of pesticides, the use of air, information and awareness of the environment, the reduction of pesticide use and the reduction of risk in certain areas, the protection of bees and the application of pesticides on public and greening surfaces, the provision of information on the basis of the institutions and information provided by means of the institutions, the supervision of the institutions, the protection of the protection of the institutions and the laws, the protection of the protection of the institutions and the laws, the protection of the laws, the protection of the institutions, the protection of the laws and the laws and the laws, the laws, the protection of the protection of the institutions and the laws and the laws, the laws of the institutions, the protection of the use of the laws and the laws, the laws, the laws and the rules of the laws of the laws, the laws, the laws and the laws, the laws, the protection of the laws and the laws and the protection of the protection of the protection of the protection of the protection of the laws of the laws of the institutions, the laws of the institutions, the institutions of the institutions, the institutions, the institutions and the institutions of the institutions, the institutions of the institutions of the institutions and the rules of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions and the institutions and the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions, the institutions, the institutions, the institutions, the institutions of which provide of the institutions and the institutions and the institutions of the institutions of the institutions, the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions, the institutions, the institutions, the institutions and the institutions and the institutions and the institutions and the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of which provide of which provide of which are the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions and the institutions The purpose of this law is to achieve sustainable use of pesticides, reduce risk and negative effects from use of pesticides in a way that ensures a high level of protection of human and animal health and environmental protection and biodiversity conservation. The introduction of mandatory application of the basic principles of integrated plant protection to control harmful organisms of plants and alternative approaches and techniques such as non-chemical plant protection measures to achieve sustainable and competitive agriculture. The provisions of this Act shall not prevent the application of the precautionary principle in such a way as to restrict or prohibit the use of pesticides in specific circumstances or areas. This is the case in Article 66, which specifically regulates or defines specific conditions for the use of air pesticides or air treatment. So it is allowed, but indeed in special conditions both in agriculture and in forestry where no other use is really possible, another way of using herbicide where an example in the ingredients of the shell oak and the Polish jasen due to the invasion of leper pests can result in total nudity or large and long-term damage to these ingredients and thus I say simply the damage is far, far greater than what would cause air treatment. The competent authorities for the implementation of this law and the regulations adopted under this law shall be the following, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture, the State Inspector or State Agricultural Inspectorate, the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food, the HAPIH and HZJZ. The professional bodies for the implementation of this law are the Ministry, HAPIH, University of Zadar, Faculty of Agriculture, University of J.J. Strossmayer in Osijek, Agricultural Institute of Osijek, Institute of Medical Research and Medicine, HZJZ in cooperation with public health services units of regional and regional self-government and the Institute of Public Health Dr. Andrija Printer. The Republic of Croatia adopted a National Action Plan to achieve sustainable use of pesticides in 2013. This national action plan to achieve sustainable use of pesticides in the follow-up to NAP provides quantitative assumptions, objectives and measures and time plans for their implementation in order to reduce the risks and effects of pesticides on human health, the environment and biodiversity, and encourages the development and introduction of integrated plant protection and alternative procedures and covers various areas of interest such as: protection of workers, environments, pesticides and other technologies. Here, this one. For that reason, we will uphold this law. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100193	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Martina Vlasic Iljkic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100194	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament and colleagues here at the end of this debate, we can freely repeat what has been pointed out several times, which is that this law harmonizes European legislation or Croatian legislation with European legislation mainly because of the importance and specific strategy From field to table, the EU Strategy for Biodiversity by 2030 and the European Green Plan. These are important strategic documents, and all of those goals that are listed there are very much something that should be pursued by Croatian agriculture, but how realistic it will be and how applicable to our circumstances should be taken into account and, in any case, strive to give the Croatian farmer as many opportunities as possible, especially regarding organic farming and means safe food without pesticides. How much is Croatia actually ready to implement these objectives and how much systematic support Croatian agriculture has at all, especially if we are talking about healthy nutrition and food from organic production without the use of pesticides. Food prices have been rising rapidly lately, the citizen's organic product is inaccessible, and the manufacturer's production is almost invaluable. The Croatian farmer deprives of the availability of agricultural land, cannot grow organic food means meat products and that is something that makes production more difficult, and due to the rise in energy prices, the production and processing of the country is further difficult or almost threatened. As we have repeated several times today, non-chemistry food is actually a product of additional value and opportunity for Croatian agriculture because it is a quality food that we seek especially in these circumstances in which we are constantly talking about insufficient self-sufficiency in the production of foods. The law introduces certain activities, certain credentials of an appropriate level, the establishment of a commission, the increase of inspection and infringement provisions, and that is all that is good, but there are no financial resources that will be spent as we consider problematic. Why we're actually skeptical about the implementation of this law is actually on the trail of what the existing law has been poorly implemented and we have no feedback on the use of pesticides so far, the control of the use of pesticides, we have no feedback at all on the control of use. The secretary on the committee did not have the answers we sent him, and we hope that as far as the control is concerned, the content and information will be made available to the general public. As a reason for the adoption of the new law, the lack of quality of education and irregularities in the examination of pesticide devices and the issue of a sign of correctness of the device. This is all that should be corrected by this new law, but how much of an inspectorate is able to do all that this law requires, this is what we are talking about today, and how confident we can even be that the inspectorate will do it the way this law requires. That's why we think we're actually a little skeptical, we think this is about applying European strategies and it's about administrative matters, not really the approach to reducing the use of pesticides and planning to develop agriculture. But we will state what we think is good in this bill. As regards the clearer definition of treatment-free services, there are many nursing single households who cannot ensure their own treatment of their products. We also believe that there is still room for relief regarding the obligation to repeat education or renew the authorisation for the use of pesticides. If someone laid down and got that license, we don't see any reason why they should continue to rebuild. And also what we think is good. is a special protection of bees and wild pollinators. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100195	Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100196	In the end, I would just say that the SDP club will submit certain amendments and certainly regarding compliance and with Croatian... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100197	Now, finally, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, the respected representative, Niksha Vukas, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100198	Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So I think the law is more or less said. In the final word, I would like to say that the Social Democrats Club will support this bill solely because of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because this law is just important for the preservation of people's health and today there has been a lot of talk about the law, but in fact there has been talk about the situation in Croatian agriculture. What I'm about to finally say is that these controls themselves need to be stronger. I'm not in the mood to send a garrison of inspectors over our knees right now, but it's up to you at the Ministry of Agriculture and Education and Control. Not on you, but on the State Inspectorate that this law applies and that the controls are as large as possible. Therefore, what we will pay particular attention to agriculture from year to year to year is this sustainability, sustainability, sustainability, sustainability of pesticide use, strengthening and raising the ecological agriculture, raising the awareness of farmers themselves not to do what can endanger the lives of people who will tomorrow consume these products and only what is most important that if people who violate the law are really detected, who use excessive use of pesticides to be rigorous punishments because an overdose of pesticides can endanger human life and we can treat it as a murder out of nowhere or out of ignorance, but we will not do so overnight. We have to do a lot of education, a lot of work on the minds of our farmers, our citizens when they take that vial of some herbicide or insecticide to essentially know what they have in their hands. But what is important and here I see that fellow Miletic will talk about it is this packaging and monitoring and packaging from the purchase itself, from the very moment that this packaging is empty when it has to be put off somewhere, when someone has to pick it up, but now I'm not usurping his topic you can continue. Therefore, support the bill, but first of all let's raise the awareness of people, let's educate people and finally help the inspector, but in one positive direction to really be on the ground and to monitor the agricultural OPGs and the agricultural companies that are just dealing with this production so that things that may not happen, and on the shelf found some product that has residences because we ourselves know that life is at risk. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100199	The Honorable representative Marin Miletic will now speak finally on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Mosta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100200	Mr. Reiner's respect for Vice-President Reiner, the esteemed Bucharest and the esteemed state secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues. They say Latina "repetito est mother studiorum" and then we sometimes think well, here's the second or third time in the debate and we say the same or almost the same but we who are here in the assembly benches know how many people are actually following us and how important it is for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and how important it is for us to talk about their real problems and everything they face on a daily basis. I'm glad there's the mayor of Prelog. We were at his place a few days ago. He's well set up circular waste management, and we here can talk about this law that he really has a lot of shifts. If I wanted to be petty, then I would say that in 2002, Europe started putting pesticides on its directive. In 2009, again more clearly, and then on 11 December 2019 with a green new deal, so she put together a whole wide picture in which again very clearly, so Europe is rigorous and we can say that there is one of the more rigorous laws, positively saying, so on the protection of agricultural land at all, about the use of pesticides. A colleague, Niksha, said well, that today in the debates all day we talked about how collecting pesticide waste that is now used once a year is not enough. So it's not a first, so it's not enough, and then the other state needs to find out, Secretary of State I know you heard us and you followed closely. We need to find solutions, so all that waste that's actually dangerous waste is properly transferred in processes, so it's being stored and then it doesn't end, so in some kind of burning that rarely happens in our villages to throw it away so it burns down which is definitely harmful. I also ask the State Inspectorate from this place to control more strongly all those pesticide counterfeits and we believe that it is also very, very dangerous and such use of this type of pesticide. We commend Article 71 on bees. So it is very important for us that this is set right and that in processes and times of pollination it will not be, the law will prohibit the use of any pesticides. We know from the past that we've had, there's already been talk, some bad experiences with it, and that's why it's important that that part is regulated. Also, colleagues spoke from the Social Democrats Club about the necessity of a missing advisory story. I think there's a lot missing again, but here we are somehow looking forward to at least not saying under the stick, but under the motivation of the above, Brussels and the EU are still in line with some of the trends that are out there, which definitely bring good to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. A positive shift is the whole educational story, it's also quite well done. What I said was that I would like our farmers to be allowed to use where they are capable, where they can also play the role of drones in pollinating their agricultural land and that we never take away our attention to talk enough about self-sufficiency, about the need for production, about the alleged signs of small, medium-sized producers because there is the key to everything. So we have to make enough food. As we know that one part we already have and Croatia must be independent. So that's why it's important that we have enough of our own food. The MOST Club has closely followed this bill and we believe that the topic of agriculture is the main topic to be discussed for at least the next 20 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100201	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We are now going to the next point, which is - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Plant Health, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 262. The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Tugomir Majdak, please. Now, if you'll excuse me, my bad. Technical Services asked me to take a five-minute break, so here we are again at 14.47. MEETING IN 14.41 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100278	Thank you, Vice President. Dear members and members of the Croatian Parliament, therefore, the Law on Plant Health, which ensures the implementation of Regulation 2031 of the European Parliament and of the Council on protective measures against organisms harmful to plants, regulates the fundamental issues of plant health as appropriate to international standards, and the main objective is to protect plants, plant products and other objects from harmful organisms. Furthermore, the establishment of the presence of pests, the prevention and spread of harmful organisms and their eradication by the application of phytosanitary measures, the prevention of the export of plants, plant products and other objects infected with harmful organisms and the protection of the environment from the effects of harmful organisms. The competent authority for the implementation of the Law on Plant Health is the Ministry of Agriculture. Furthermore, the Law on Plant Health defines other competent authorities in the implementation of the Law on Plant Health, which is the State Inspectorate, the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food and the Croatian Forest Institute. Experience gained in the implementation of the Law on Plant Health has shown that certain or detected deficiencies have been defined or the need to define certain procedures more clearly. The proposed provisions of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Plant Health improve the legal framework of national legislation in a part which has not been prescribed so far, thus achieving a more effective implementation of plant health in the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Plant Health establishes an information system in the field of plant health to be used for the collection, storage, storage, processing of information on the distribution of quarantine harmful organisms of the Union and harmful organisms which temporarily do not meet the conditions of quarantine harmful organisms of the Union. Detailed provisions relating to the entry of certain plants, plant products and other objects into the border areas of the Republic of Croatia are hereby laid down and procedures for the approval of the operation of quarantine cells and the space for isolation are laid down in more detail, i.e. the justification of the request for complexity determines the expert commission on the basis of which the proposal is to be adopted. The proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Plant Health also provides for the possibility of exchange of data between competent authorities in the information system in the field of plant health. The possibility of public publication of certain data from the information system which may be used as a basis for drawing up strategic documents in the field of plant health is also prescribed. Furthermore, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Plant Health provides for additional updates of the application... And that's to track down 10 new harmful organisms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Upgrade funds will be provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, amounting to €675,000 for 2023 and 2024. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100279	Thank you very much, you spoke shorter than there will be replicas that there are many. First honorary representative Ban Vlahek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100280	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, we have now debated in this parliamentary short break, and I am interested in your comment, why, since this is one of the smaller laws why he could not possibly have connected with some related law such as this Law on the sustainable use of pesticides that we have just discussed since he has a total of 33 articles and 27 without these transitional and final provisions, and would have reduced the number of legal acts which, in addition to all sublaws, make monitoring and enforcement almost impossible. Also, I have a question as to whether there are currently requests for temporary introduction of quarantine harmful organisms for the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100281	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100282	Thank you. This law, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law on Plant Health, first and foremost, defines all those, first and foremost by defining all those provisions by transposing certain EU regulations relating to information systems in the field of plant health and, as such, relying on European practice in this section. Regarding your second question, is there a requirement so far for the introduction of quarantine organisms into the Republic of Croatia here's the question we have yet to answer on the Committee on Agriculture, so at this point we have no demands. For the same us at the Ministry of Agriculture level means we allocate financial resources for monitoring quarantine organisms for them 47 and... New means with the system we're going to check and monitor 10 more new ones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100283	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100284	Thank you. Given the experience we have with state-owned software procurement, I'd like to ask which firm does this software... Is it open software, so open code software open to upgrade or is it this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Software. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why is such a price, meaning 675,000 kuna, only 10 new harmful organisms introduced into the system? How much has it cost so far, and why are the funds being booked in a way for 2023 and 2024 if software upgrades do not appear to be? That's not clear to me because here it's obvious that it's an upgrade for this year, but the funds are also projected for '23, '24, so for what purpose, here were the questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100285	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100286	Thank you, I've responded in part in my previous response. So, so far, we've been tracking down funds and monitoring 47 quarantine pests. With this additional app, we will open up a space for tracking new 10 quarantine pests. Therefore, their monitoring and removal of potential means harmful consequences. As far as the choice is concerned, it is all systematic public procurement rules and the ministry as I have said and based on what was asked about the Law on Plant Health that the ministry is doing transparent public procurement and all procedures are transparent and publicly available.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100287	Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100288	Dear Secretary of State, Croatia has already lost its plant, so there are examples, but there are no forests, the pathogens have attacked and a clear one under which 180 thousand acres of forest worth 11 billion kuna, the underpass is present to us and for the sake of damage in the forests of Gorski Kotar, do you know how the oak antlers and oak whales have passed in the battle with the oak mesh bed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100289	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100290	Yes, we know all that you mentioned, so the Ministry of Agriculture at the level of the Directorate of Forestry, in the woodworking industry and hunting, follows the situation as a competent body, therefore, but in cooperation with the Croatian Forest Institute, the results of all these research can be delivered by written means.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100291	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100292	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, even in this previous law of 2019, it is mentioned that it is being upgraded to Regulation 2016/2031 as a basic act regulating plant quarantine in the Union and which prescribes that, if it is addressed, every citizen should report suspicion of the presence of a quarantine harmful organism on his plant. How much does this work with us, do the citizens themselves show up or is everything in the hands of specialized entities? Here I came across a 376-page handbook with a lot of pictures and descriptions of these harmful organisms, so it's obvious to those who are strictly dealing with it, and what about ordinary citizens, as this regulation states, and this law we're relying on now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100293	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100294	Thank you. Therefore, the competent authority of the Ministry of Agriculture, and the other competent authorities in law enforcement are the State Inspectorate, the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food and the Croatian Forest Institute, therefore the procedure is for citizens to report to these competent authorities and related to further monitoring and monitoring, but also to eliminate the suppression of certain funds of these harmful organisms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100295	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100296	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, Regulation 2016/2031 in some ways allows quarantine pests to be introduced into the territory of a country, the state may do so, but it does not have to make it possible. You're allowing these amendments to the law. Can you explain to us if there is any particular reason why, did you have in mind only research, scientific some, so scientific exercises, situations, to prepare yourself for a future and in fact learn more information, or do we already have some specific cases that are why this regulation is being introduced and the law is changing?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100297	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100298	Thank you. Well, here it is, as I have already listed 47 quarantine pests, and 10 new ones will be monitored, or there will be monitoring of the same precisely because of this fact, or because of later action for the purpose of, above all, scientific analysis and the future suppression itself, we allow the potential future suppression to be made so that the request can be made, the quarantine organism entered, and then through the monitoring of the same within quarantine cells will act curatively.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100299	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100300	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I would perhaps once again refer to myself and get an explanation from you in general about the cross-border impact. So this cross-border impact is extremely important because, of course, we know where the borders are, but in some kind of plant world and everything else, there are no borders. And now somehow I don't doubt, and I think that this information system and everything else will work, and so we know what Croatia looks like, we know that the borders, we know that we have a part where we border with countries that are members of the EU, but we have a part and where we border with countries that are not members of the EU, so I'm interested in mutual arrangements and talks, sharing information with each other, which is extremely important. You know, it's important, we can legislate everything, but it's an important mutual agreement between some countries at that level, so I'm curious about what these experiences are like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100301	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100302	I thank you for your question. Therefore, inter-state cooperation is actively linked to this area and at the level of the introduction of plants and plant products into border areas, so the supervision is carried out by a customs officer and a border police officer. For the purpose of monitoring the phytosanitary certificate, a phytosanitary inspection shall be responsible. So I'll repeat the phytosanitary inspection and these other customs-related services work together in border areas with officials from other countries. In addition, in the border areas, we have made it easier for us to do so on our own, not only to monitor but to communicate between these services.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100303	Dear Representative Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100304	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you whether these changes and additions to the Law on Plant Health are better governed by certain areas of plant health such as this. The introduction of an information system, the monitoring of harmful organisms, the introduction of certain plants and other objects into the border areas of the Republic of Croatia, the phytosanitary supervision, is this sufficient and is this much better than has been done so far with these changes and additions?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100305	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100306	Thank you. The intention of both these changes and additions is precisely the improvement of the system, so above all phytosanitary supervision, but also the very system of plant health in the area primarily of the Republic of Croatia, but then in the border areas. This was also our goal, so that through these 3 segmental improvements we can arrange further quality only in the field of plant health.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100307	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100308	Your Honor, Secretary of State. We know that on December 15th of this year, the story of the use of glyphosate at EU level, we know that there are stakeholders that correspond to the use of glyphosate, it increases the production of about 30, 40%, and we know by all studies how toxic it is and how harmful it is to people. And I'm curious, we know that Austria banned it, we know that Germany has announced it will ban it, one Thailand that has 70 million inhabitants banned it, do we have to be the last? Can we at least show courage here, not look at the mother of Germany, so how she winks at me? Can we say here we Croats, citizens not here, but so you like those who have legitimacy lead this country we will ban the use of this poison.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100309	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100310	Thank you. So our views of the last position before this moratorium of debate were in favour of the countries just mentioned, so and precisely on the basis of this date when it points out that we ordered a study, an independent study of the influences of glyphosate and it will soon be known to mean the general public where we are just going in the direction of the Ministry of Agriculture, we go in the direction of this all that is stated, although certain scientific other bases have not yet provided based on what individual Member States have, and including us through our study we prove.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100311	Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100312	Thank you. Secretary of State. I did not understand at the end who was the one who reported and until when this law foresees future pests that could occur, which did not currently reach Croatian, for example, vineyards. And to assume that it's still kind of secure for one who would eventually import chocolates outside of some noble variety, it's to assume that there shouldn't be such peas along with all these so far numbered that I don't now list them from the black spot that's now falling on me, the ashes and all that's known redness of leaves, so if someone notices a new disease then that's something which should be entered... [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100313	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100314	Thank you. Therefore, the phytosanitary inspection shall verify, therefore, that the phytosanitary certificate plus any particular fruit which is imported or imported into the Republic of Croatia and thus prove that it is medically correct, or that it carries that certificate that it is valid. On the other hand, the competent authorities that I mentioned taking care of the overall state of plant health in the Republic of Croatia, but what you are probably interested in is how a single quarantine pest can come into the Republic of Croatia. Here, too, I replied to Mrs Petir in a way that these permits will be issued exclusively for scientific purposes or research purposes, and everything else can be subject to phytosanitary inspection when they are imported into the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100315	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100316	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. State Secretary, Director, Representatives and Representatives. At its 55th session held on 24 March 2022, the HS Agriculture Committee discussed. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Plant Health, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 17 March 2022. A positive assessment of the strengthening of information systems in plant health has been made in the debate, asking about the reasons why this act proposes the possibility of temporary introduction of quarantine harmful organisms into the Republic of Croatia and provides for the possibility of issuing authorisation for the operation of quarantine cells and the space for isolation. It is asked whether there are already requirements for the introduction of quarantine organisms into the Republic of Croatia, with the facilitatement of the introduction of plants, plant products and other objects into the border areas of the Republic of Croatia, whether the same provision will facilitate the introduction of plants and plant products into the Republic of Croatia. The proposer replied that there are currently no requirements for the temporary introduction of quarantine harmful organisms into the Republic of Croatia, but that the proposed amendments and amendments to national legislation are harmonised with the European legal framework in order to provide for this possibility in the future. It confirmed facilitating the introduction of plants, plant products and other objects into the border areas of the Republic of Croatia for border area residents. The HS Agriculture Committee is unanimous with eight votes to propose to HS the following conclusions, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Plant Health, Notices and Proposals to be submitted to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Plant Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100317	You, too. I'm opening a debate. First of all, according to the clubs, the first club is a representative of the Mosta, Mr. Kujundzic will begin and then Mr. Miletic will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100318	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So something in Croatia is not good. The truth is that we should strive to make the paper system in Croatia as best as possible. On the other hand, what we certainly need to work on is the consciousness of each individual in this area as well as in all others. If we're talking about a particular law, I think that our key starting point should be a causal relationship, therefore phytosanitary measures and means used or used together with its reflection on population health. Because if we are aware of one fact, which is that we have dramatically increased the number of infertile couples in Croatia, that we have grown drastically by generation if we look at the number of children with diabetes, that we have grown dramatically in number of patients with different carcinogenic forms and diseases, and that I do not list everything else is quite clear to us the importance of the Law on Plant Health and the key question that is being asked in itself. What is on our tables and what is in our fields? The question that we will remain after this law, and it is clear to me that there is no way to regulate it is that with a country located next to the border areas with neighbouring countries, which a certain country, certain plants can treat with certain means that are specifically prohibited in Croatia, are not elsewhere. And then what can happen to the health of the people in the area. I understand that even in this paper sense, we cannot cover things in an ideal way, but I welcome normally any form of effort. So I wouldn't want you to take anything I say as a form of attack or criticism, God forbid you. But I can't help thinking that all the previous governments could have done much, much more in this area. Therefore, the fundamental issue of this law is the health protection of plant products and other objects from harmful organisms and their eradication by the application of phytosanitary measures. However, by doing so or even more precisely, whether it will happen that by pushing the fox, we may banish the wolf when it comes to one ratio to the health of plants and human health. In other words, phytosanitary measures also prevent the treatment of plant diseases, which is certainly crucial for agriculture, but it is also essential for human health. Plant protection products can also be called agrotoxic and are defined by the World Health Organisation as substances or mixtures used to prevent, destroy, attract or control any disease that threatens agriculture, certain forms of plant or public health during the process of production, preservation, transport and distribution of all agricultural products and what they produce. With the help of phytosanitary measures, it is possible to improve the performance of plant species and cause an increase in agricultural production, and in return these substances contribute to the commercialisation of crops because they primarily extend their lives and delay the deterioration that will take place during the extensive processes that must pass from their production to their sales of course. This also affects the reduction of prices and better appearance in the eyes of potential consumers. What is certainly most important is that good phytosanitary measures in the context of the treatment of harmful organisms are reduced to minimal harm to public health and ecology. Because phytosanitary measures are linked to phytosanitary products, then that means they also have a negative aspect. I can contaminate water and soil and endanger biodiversity. For example, combined with fertilisers can lead to Eurotrification, more specifically the ageing of water eco systems. In addition, mistreatment with them can affect the health of agricultural workers and even consumers of plants. Experience gained in the implementation of the Law on Plant Health has shown a form of disadvantage in the opposite of opinions if we speak at EU level, and then also the criteria for which something is harmful somewhere, and somewhere it is not. And in order for us to understand one charm of approach and inequality enough to take this for example, what our colleague Miletic mentioned. So it's true that it's about herbicide, but with us in Imotski, so it's about Cidocor or glyphosate... Thus, the vast majority of the Croatian population raises huge doubts about the quality of the products found on their table. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's the key problem is who he's lying to. If we take Minister Tolusic, who, while at the head of the ministry, not long ago clearly declares, so unequivocally that glyphosate is harmful and that it should be banned. A few months after the current minister, so she doesn't think about the move. You mentioned that it was in these discussions, so very close to the attitudes of Austria and Germany. However, the key question is why it has not been done so far. I don't know if anyone is aware that the traces of glyphosate are reported in over 750 products that can be found on shelves. One of the surveys in 18 countries in Europe, including Croatia, has shown that 4 out of 10 Croats, four out of 10 Croats in the body have ampa concentration, more specifically acid produced by the decommissioning of glyphosate. Keep in mind that phytosanitary measures would not change that paradigm of our ministry so that “From field to table” so that it does not turn into a syntagm from field to grave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100319	Mr. Miletic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100320	We are paricious vice president of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Radin, a respected state secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. We've been discussing agriculture today, and it's good to discuss it because it's the main topic for the next 20 years. I've got exactly three minutes, a little less, so I'll just focus on the glyphosate ban. And I'm glad our secretary of state is here in the Croatian Parliament today. So, on March 30th, he made it very clear that Croatia is also going in this direction and we know that glyphosate supports interesting lobbys despite being poisoned and bringing a series of problems, encourages production or a product of about 30% to 40%, some say more and then it is at the heart of health. So, the economy, the money, the money, the money, and whoever dies, my God dies. So, and that's why I'm glad Austria banned the use of glyphosate, Germany goes with that ban, many countries, here's Thailand, which has 70 million inhabitants banned the use of glyphosate. We know that, at EU level, on December 15th, the approval for the use of glyphosate stands out, and I asked the ruling today not to be the last, the last hole on the playing track, and then how the train goes then we get on rather than show courage, courage and not wait for the mother of Germany to wink, and we immediately jump out of fear rather than show determination, courage and ban glyphosate. That's why I'd like to see it in this law, and it's regulated and banned. As for some attempts to say he's not that bad, Professor Dr. Sc. Vrček from the Institute for Organic Chemistry of the Faculty of Pharmacy Biochemistry in Zagreb says that glyphosate in Croatia should be banned urgently as soon as possible, the days of that Herbicide have been numbered. So, people know what modern people say, let's listen to the profession, so let's listen to the profession and ban the glyphosate. I only hope, "I hope," that it won't stick like that. The Canadian law firm filed a lawsuit of just over $500 million, so people who proved themselves ill, many that they were badly damaged, some unfortunately died from the use of this whole glyphosate story. And you also know that formerly this ominous Monsanto, I hope the Ministry of Truth called the Factographer won't fix me again on the Internet, now the owner of Bayern has lost his lawsuits in America, millions of millions of lawsuits, and now we'll see the continuation of that trial for glyphosate. So, let's protect the health of Croatian citizens, protect our environment and our nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100321	Mrs. Ruzica Vukovac will speak on behalf of the Representatives' Club for Fair Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100322	Thank you. Your Honor. The aim of existing EU rules in the field of plant health is to protect European agriculture and forestry by preventing the introduction and spread of foreign harmful organisms. A recent assessment of these rules criticised their failure to address the problem of increased inflows of new organisms harmful to plants and plant diseases, largely due to the globalisation of trade itself, and many of these harmful organisms and diseases due to climate change can now survive more easily in Europe. It is therefore essential to update the existing rules in order to fully eliminate these increased risks and to introduce uniform rules in all EU Member States. In order to allow for a more flexible response to existing and emerging risks, non-parasitic plants are also recently considered harmful organisms provided that they have a serious economic, social and environmental impact in the Union itself. The current regulations define the major harmful organisms that are divided into two categories, primarily the quarantine harmful organisms that are most dangerous for the EU-wide area and which need to be eradicated and which are priority harmful organisms that have a serious impact on the EU area and combat them are intended for specific resources, which also implies far-reaching obligations for both competent authorities are also referred to specialised entities, but also private persons and harmful organisms of protected areas. These are quarantine harmful organisms from which only parts of the EU area will be protected, given that in other areas they are already present and other qualitative harmful organisms that attack plants but do not need to be eradicated. The new EU-level rules also include measures to combat harmful organisms from non-EU countries. The Commission has been empowered to implement precautionary measures for emerging risks caused by plants originating in certain non-EU countries. A category of high-risk plants, plant products or other objects covered by plants, plant products or other objects for which a preliminary assessment has established that the EU area poses a risk to harmful organisms of an unacceptable level. The EU Member States' plant health administrations have agreed since 2017 to launch a new comprehensive strategy to raise awareness of plant health levels at EU level. The strategy adopted consists of five proposed priority measures implemented by the Member States and the Commission, which are, above all, the creation of awareness-raising strategies itself, the establishment of a commission of a working group of experts from the Member States themselves, the creation of tools and materials for raising awareness levels, cooperation with target groups and training of communication experts and monitoring and evaluation. After the proposal has been read, in particular Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall apply. 11a of the draft amending and supplementing the law, the ministry states that a list of quarantine stations and isolation areas is to be kept in accordance with Article 2. The 60th century 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. But looking for Google information on whether we have any idea how many quarantine stations I haven't actually found the answer to the question, how many there are, whether we have enough space to isolate and whether there's any register of the same and whether it's publicly available at all. I believe that we are committed today and open the topic with these amendments and additions to the Law on Plant Health of the serious problem that Croatia has. So, oak yellowed and brown leaves are not actually indicators of the impact of autumn, and neither the winter but the increasing impact of oak network bedbugs, which has recently been one of the most dangerous invasive pests in forestry primarily on our far-known oak in the media, are the most mentioned damage to oak ingredients in the state forests, but the growing problem occurs in the private forests that occupy 24% of the total forest area in the Republic of Croatia, and thus this problem will be increasingly expressed on private forests in the future. The oak net, a network bedrock, is considered an invasive species because, by definition, the species are considered invasive, invasive if its settlement or expansion negatively affects biodiversity or human health or causes economic damage in the area in which it is introduced. The oak networked bedbug was first established in Croatia in the eastern Slavonia area as early as 2013. In addition to this type of network bedrock in the region of the Republic of Croatia since the 1970s, there has been a platinum network bedrock that also makes huge damage to the trees of the plateau in parks and woodwoods throughout Croatia. The most common damage from oak netting is the drying and premature depletion of leaves that are indirectly evident in reducing the intensity of photosynthesis of attacked leaves, which affects the increased stress of attacked plants. Visible changes in treetops are seen primarily in oak species already in July. The expansion of oak netting also contributes to favourable climate conditions, so wind, high temperature and transport. In recent years, larger and more frequent damages have been observed than oak network bedbugs in forests of forest owners in the area of the Republic of Croatia about the oak species, with the two most commercially important species of shell oak and whale oak. Control of the spread of oak reeds, nets and the reduction of its impact on the native species and forest ecosystems is a major challenge for the protection of nature not only in the state forests but also in the forests of forest owners, given their significant share in the surfaces of the oak oaks and whales most affected by this spread. In view of the above, it is very important to detect early the presence of an oak bedbug as well as all other invasive foreign species in the forest ecosystems of the Republic of Croatia independently of ownership. Unfortunately, there are currently no effective control measures, so there are only measures left to control the spread of oak nets as well as other invasive species in the forest ecosystems of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100323	Mrs. Anya Shimpraga will speak for the SDSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100324	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers of State, Directors, colleagues and colleagues, the current Law on Plant Health was adopted in 2019, but within such a short period of time, implementation times, certain shortcomings or shortcomings were identified, which led to the need to define certain procedures more clearly. The primary objective of amending and supplementing the law is to improve the legal framework of national legislation in a section that has not been prescribed so far, thus achieving a more effective need, the implementation of plant health protection in the Republic of Croatia. It is interesting in the context of this law to mention that it is not a novelty and that it is really just a matter of modernising and following trends because legislation in the field of plant health has a longer tradition and dates back to the time of the Dubrovnik Republic when some sources first introduced a quarantine. The legislation in the area of production and transport of plant protection products has been developing since the half of the 20th century when the intensive development of chemical plant protection products began. As an EU member, Croatia has incorporated all directives and regulations into its legislation. This is particularly demanding because the adoption of new EU rules is a permanent process that is constantly changing depending on the strategy and the objectives of the previous regulations. Of course, before the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, laws were developed at national level in accordance with national specificities. The health correctness of plants is of paramount importance for plant production, forests, nature, natural ecosystems and biodiversity. And the very production of plants is also the basis of a food chain without which there would be no food for humans or for animals. At globally today, 40% of crops are lost due to harmful organisms and plant diseases. In terms of economic value, only plant diseases cost the global economy about 220 billion dollars a year and invasive species about 70 billion dollars. A vast range of harmful organisms and plant diseases endangers food production at global level, affects productivity and biodiversity of forests and wild flora of the natural environment. Most often, the main cause is man himself, and it should also be noted that the global trade of plants carries the risk of spreading harmful organisms. It is important to follow positive trends, and nothing less important is that we respect such a principle in legislation as well. Thus, these amendments to the Law on Plant Health introduce the concept of an information system in plant health for the monitoring, collection, storage, storage and processing of information on the spread of harmful and quarantine harmful organisms. Information systems in plant health shall be protected from the application of competent authorities in the implementation of the Law on Plant Health by which data on the quarantine harmful organisms of the Union and harmful organisms which temporarily meet the conditions for inclusion in the quarantine harmful organisms of the Union will be collected, entered and updated. The exchange of information from information systems between competent authorities and the possibility of public publication for the purpose of drawing up strategic documents in the field of plant health shall be prescribed. Detailed provisions concerning the introduction of certain plants, plant products and other objects into the border areas of the Republic of Croatia as well as procedures for the approval of the operation of quarantine cells and space for isolation shall be laid down. In this context, it is important that, with the facilitatement of the introduction of plants, plant products and other objects into the border areas of the Republic of Croatia, the same provision will facilitate the introduction of plants and plant products into the Republic of Croatia. From the point of view of the legislation in the field of plant protection against harmful organisms or the area of plant health, the number of regulations and implementing acts is broad, primarily the Regulation. However, it concerns the fact that no single entity has participated in public consultation in this law, although it is apparent that it is dynamic, important and ultimately life-saving. Due to the importance of this area and this law, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS has already supported the Law on Plant Health in the first reading. One of the objectives is to reduce the use of pesticides, fertilisers and antibiotics in food production. As part of these efforts, we should encourage different initiatives that will give farmers the reason to apply sustainable practices in food production because ultimately the protection of plants from harmful organisms and plant diseases is always more cost-effective than the control of eradication and in the worst case of the resolution of the uncontrollable impact of harmful organisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100325	Mr. Niksha Vukas will represent the positions of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100326	Dear Vice President of the Assembly, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, first of all, I have one criticism, and I think we could have united these two debates. The last time we united agricultural land and pesticides, and now we're a law on the sustainable use of pesticides and the Law on Plant Health we've separated, and I think we've kind of split it all apart, we don't know what to say. Here's me who's really going to say I get some of that waist so I don't know what to say about it. What I read about the law was the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Plant Health, and before that we talked about how pesticides are reduced, how they are self-sufficient, sustainable and environmentally acceptable, and now fellow Miletic is talking about glyphosate, someone else is going to talk about someone else, it's just hard to say anything about this law. I mean, we support it, if we have to have quarantine when we import some plants... we have to have this quarantine be at EU level by standards it has to be, do these phytosanitary, sanitary all inspectors, customs officers do that control, they have to. Well, it's a national interest, so we're saving our national interests so we don't import diseases because if we do, we don't. Maybe that was supposed to be the first point, if we make an appointment, then there's no use of pesticides because then we have to go with drastic pesticide measures if we open up on this other side of the pack to this law. So I thought it was weird to have two discussions, but where we're at, we're moving on. As far as the Law on Plant Health itself is concerned, we will surely support it because it is in the interest of the state interest. We must prevent the introduction of pests, quarantine pests. We know why quarantine serves and since it is, my Dubrovnikers have introduced quarantine, therefore what we have to appeal for again, which is control, control, control, and must not happen to us to fall on this test because if we failed on this test, God regrets that we have talked for three, four hours about the sustainable use of pesticides because we are going to sort of dilute it. There's been a lot of talk about glyphosate, about keeping the ground, about preserving people's health, and I think we've already earned the conditions to pass a law on the ban on glyphosate, not to hide there, and that's where we have to look at ourselves. If the atrazins that were for the breadth of corn were banned, which was unimaginable 15 years ago when someone said they would ban Deherban or I don't know which one of these attractive ones, so it was a revolution that dared. But we brought it in, and no one remembers these atrazines at all, so we should do it with glyphosate. We have to make our own decision because when we take a closer look at agriculture today, the machinery is getting better and better, and we can just mechanically destroy those weeds and on one side of the country huge money from the EU is pulling exactly that farmers buy these machines, hairs, diggers and everything else, we don't have that problem of banning glyphosate if we want to, and I think we've got all the conditions. And if one of the conditions is enough to protect the health of our citizens and citizens. As far as the Law on Plant Health is concerned, we end up supporting it, we support it. I just want that software and that information system to really be useful if you don't get involved with these software, I don't mean it now in the procurement phase, you're not gonna get burned, you're not going to be there, you're going to spend it on the Chuckum Pack, you're not going to get anything under the radar right now, but it's going to be flexible, it's going to be good that a regular farmer can be available, that a common farmer can see a pest in that area and that's what I noticed that day, and I'm asking the Agricultural Advisory Service or the inspection to get out on the ground, and I think that this software would be the purpose. It can be done today, and when we have on one side software when we have a register, when we have a good will for the citizens to bring it in, the services that follow it will make a small shift in agriculture again, so from day to day we rise up a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100327	Mr. William Matula will represent the views of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100328	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I have peeked a little into the manual specialising in subjects dealing with how many of these quarantine harmful organisms the EU has and what is somehow there for me who, of course, I was completely familiar with, is saying that quarantine harmful organisms that are not known to appear in the EU have 50 insects and a potency has 56 species. Quarantine harmful organisms that appear in the EU, I failed to find for Croatia this one, these insects also have 7 species. So 56 species are still around the world the ones that haven't come yet and that's all in that manual very precisely and pictured and explained all in detail and I guess it's also a phytosanitary inspection and scientists to keep an eye on it. In these quarantines there are nematodes all over the world that, these harmful organisms of four species only, although these nematodes are present, these organisms have many, many otherwise around the world, but clearly are not harmful organisms but only 4, and in Europe there are these harmful 3 species and I have found that there are 30 species of mushrooms and something subtypes around the world that are unpleasant and dangerous, and for now 4 of these species are known in Europe that are just as dangerous as quarantine harmful organisms. Now, I also want to say one more sentence now, and I don't want to use this whole term because I don't have that particular thing to say, I also think it makes sense to support it, but I understand all the colleagues who have already referred their doubts to those who are either writing software, let alone those who maintain that, especially by ruling, have a very bad and unfortunate experience and I would say bizarrely and I don't wonder that now, I don't know what this minister you're trying to put in that place. The fact is that in Croatia, not only in the world where we have, in Croatia, we have fantastic software players who for some reason you do not want to pay significantly more moderately than you take very bad, but for the inconceivable money they take for themselves. I hope this doesn't happen here, but I can see that the public is much more sensitive to it now, and I want to believe that the next minister or minister you've set up might be a few months more careful. There, that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100329	Thank you very much. From what I understand, there are far less insects than, harmful than people in Europe and the world. Mrs. Janka, Anka Mrak, Janka, I added one J, Anka Mrak Taritash, Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS. They called you Janka when, never did that, okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100330	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us the first reading of amendments to the Law on Plant Health and Health. So, as the predecessors who discussed on behalf of the clubs pointed out that it was about the law that came from 2019, the law that changes and complements, as stated in the explanation on the basis of certain experiences and said that the doubt that I have that it wasn't that bad that we discussed together because we had, we often have such unusually united discussions, where we unite in the discussion of different topics. This was one topic that could be united, but it doesn't matter what we are, where we are, we need to and perhaps stress the importance of this law. So, this law whenever a law is discussed and the attitude you take which club you somehow take is based on what you read, which would be the main objectives of a particular law. The main objective of this law is to protect plants, protect plant products and other objects from harmful organisms, determine the presence and identification of harmful organisms, prevent the introduction and spread of harmful organisms, eradicate them by applying phytosanitary measures, prevent the export of plants and plant products and other subjects infected with harmful organisms and protect the environment from the effects of harmful organisms. Do we have anything to add or subtract to any of the objectives of this law? No, I don't. Does that matter to us? It is. Should we define that? We do. Are we reading that from the proposal and the applicable law and amendments and additions there are really some conditions to ensure this? There are so we'll see through the application whether some things are good or not. I have to admit it's always been interesting to me when you enter Australia, so you, in order to even enter Australia, are looking at everything. It's looking at you especially if I don't know anything because it's a country that really takes great care that you don't bring anything into their land that could violate their ecosystems, and that's very important, and that's what on the border shows even if you have shoes and you turn your shoes to see that maybe you don't have anything in your shoes if they're dirty and some kind of seed or something thicker breaks the system. It was an indicator of how important you must defend your ecosystem to me. I kind of think that about these ecosystems of Croatia that has this unusual shape of that bird or I like to say bird it's a lot nicer to me than the ones who say "bought," I kind of like it, and I need you to look at it in the context of everything else because people know the boundaries, you stop at the border. In general, the animal world is hardly familiar with borders, but I kind of think it's the same, same story. But what we need to manage and take care of, and when it comes to plant health, are climate change. My colleagues and colleagues, climate change is a fact. Try to imagine 10 years ago whether, for example, you have Christmas in Zagreb on your balcony if you have a few plants of smelly martini. It was incomprehensible that at all such a pest, a protégé, or whatever it was you want, a bug, that it wasn't even, that it was Christmas because it was cold at Christmas, and it all froze and it froze. So climate change is a fact. Climate change is also happening in the plant world, the plant world will adapt to climate change and somehow it seems to be adapting. The same will be true when it comes to climate change and harmful organisms. We'll have some we haven't had before, we have, we'll have some, we won't have, things will change, but what we have to take care of, we have to make sure we recognize it in time. Keeping an eye on the day is what we're keeping an eye on. And now here comes what I can't finish this debate you see that we're all somehow trying to sublime and not delay the debate without reference to the introduction of the information system. Not so long ago, in a pre-election campaign, one of the leaders of a large party spoke about information and digitisation. Need information and the need for digitisation. I absolutely think that information is extremely important, that it's important that you have a good system, that it's important that you fill that good system well because you can have a simple system, but if you don't have the information that is inside, that you follow, collect, store, that it's open, that it's open, that everyone is available then you actually have it for yourself, but the information in the way it runs this government is something that I'm always not going to do, I'm going to be very mild because the whole debate doesn't need to go the wrong way, but such a big questionnaire above your head. It turned out that one minister ended up when it came to information in prison, and then it was really shown that something was worth 10 was worth 100 there. It turned out that there was now another minister at the front door who said she was going to seek asylum or her spare, spare place of life in Brussels because it threatened her. So this information system that we're talking about here, too, at least I'm not going to say the questionnaire, but it's a serious concern because we're based on some of the experiences that we have and aren't that far away. The Secretary of State responded so easily or I'm afraid that's the only thing he could answer that the procurement would be transparent, that it would be open and everything else. I haven't heard a single official say that, that the information system is going to get through public procurement, that public procurement will be transparent, that it will be everyone, that everyone will be able to see what it is, but then we see what we see in everyday life. So somehow, it would not be good for you to have an information system when it comes to plant health as well as for the end of the story with some other information system. Maybe we're really able to do something right, so I'm hoping that maybe when it comes to this information system, we can do it right, or maybe I think it wrong. Maybe those who are ruling just think that the way they do today is the right thing to do, but that certainly is no use to this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100331	Mrs. Boška Ban Vlahek in front of SDP's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100332	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Plant Health. The current Law on Plant Health falls within the category as I have already cited to the Secretary of State of Small Law. It has a total of 33 articles or 27 without transitional and final provisions and could possibly be associated with a related law such as this law that we previously discussed on the Law on the Sustainable Use of pesticides. This would reduce the number of legal acts that, with all sublegislative acts, make monitoring and reaching almost impossible. It is now proposed to amend and supplement 13 articles or 9 without transitional and final provisions. Unlike many other draft laws, for example. The Law on Cooperation which was in e-consultation for 14 days, i.e. from Christmas to St. Three kings, this bill of law has been in the e-consultation for 30 days. In those 30 days, there was not a single comment, not a single supplemental text. None of the representatives of the interested public submitted their comments. According to the Ministry of Agriculture, the bill created legal assumptions for the management of the register of specialised entities, inspection and administrative supervision and the financing of compensation and compensation, procedures for the approval of the work of quarantine stations and the space for isolation are prescribed. We have heard that a new proposal to amend and supplement the law will regulate certain areas of plant health such as the management of the information system for the monitoring of harmful organisms, the introduction of certain plants and other objects into the border areas of the Republic of Croatia, the phytosanitary supervision, the establishment of an expert committee for the approval and recall of quarantine cells and the space for isolation, as well as many other issues that we hope will have a positive impact on the implementation of the Law on Plant Health. Since I come from a border area in Međimurje, I am very interested that people who process their countries in the cross-border area do not make it difficult to get their own work results in the Republic of Croatia. This law also addresses the issues of monitoring the collection, storage, storage and processing of information on the spread of Union quarantine harmful organisms and harmful organisms that temporarily meet the conditions for inclusion in the quarantine harmful organisms of the Union, and introduces the concept of information systems in plant health, i.e. New information systems are being introduced. The Ministry of Agriculture says further development of information systems in plant health will improve and become more effective monitoring of quarantine harmful organisms. In order to monitor ten new harmful organisms we heard we need to upgrade the application MOBIDI PEST one of the information systems in plant health. That system, as they say, is necessary for the monitoring of harmful organisms in the Republic of Croatia and for the purpose of implementing the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/2031. The same application serves the Ministry of Agriculture, the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food, and the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia. The means for that purpose are provided for information activities amounting to HRK 675000 for the year 2022. The 2022 and 2024 projections are not designed for activities related to the upgrade of the information system, but will plan annually to make budgets for the new three-year period from 2023 to 2025 and for which it is not clear. So you don't know in which year an application will be upgraded or how much it will cost to maintain an application. We don't know what kind of information system the Ministry of Agriculture is, so I'm looking again for information related to their number, the name of the companies that built them and who maintained them, and the total amounts for that purpose at the annual level. With every law, the ministry grows in quotes new information systems like mushrooms after rain. Can any body at country level indicate how many information systems we have, whether they are compatible and how much their production cost and how much maintenance is at the annual level? Maybe the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society? I want to know where the citizens of the Republic of Croatia can find this information. I also insist that these data be made public as soon as possible. Furthermore, this proposal amends and amends the law, in more detail, prescribes procedures for the approval of the work of quarantine cells and the space for isolation that we welcome. Justification also requires compliance with the conditions shall be determined by the expert commission, and a solution shall be made on the basis of a proposal from the Commission. What is not good against the solution cannot be brought to the appeal but only to initiate an administrative dispute before the competent administrative court. In this law, there are still a whole series of situations where it is not possible to appeal that I find unacceptable. It became a practice of the Ministry of Agriculture to abolish the possibility of appeal and replace it by launching a administrative dispute. I wonder if the Ministry knows what kind of financial situation we are in and that the launch of the administrative dispute is costing and taking a long time. What is the reason for this treatment is not known to the citizens, nor to us. I insist that such practice be abandoned. And lastly, I wonder if perhaps the error of the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food is listed as the competent authority for the implementation of scientific and other research in the field of plant health. I understand that these tasks can be carried out by the Croatian Forest Institute as a scientific institution, but I have not been on the list of scientific institutions of the Ministry of Education and Science since 29 March 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100333	You, too. Mr. Davor Dretar will represent the views of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100334	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Secretary of State with Mrs. Associates, colleagues and colleagues. A few so-called. Q and A questions and answers we found a little going through this text. How does Croatia prevent the introduction and spread of harmful organisms? So the answer is very simple, there is a law that is called the Law on the Prevention and Introduction and Expansion of Foreign and Invasive Foreign Species and Governance. In principle, no problem, it's the Ministry of Agriculture, the inspectors are authorized, let the people work. They mention here also phytosanitary measures, namely official measures aimed at preventing the introduction or spread of quarantine harmful organisms or limiting the economic impact of regulated non-ranant harmful organisms for which there is, of course, a regulation that exists in the EU Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 on protective measures against plant harmful organisms. Each of the measures is related to harmful organisms which may endanger plant and/or animal species in Croatia and which take care of proper breeding, traceability and origin in imports, health, etc. So there could really be a series of individual specific measures here. How is the quarantine harmful organism regulated, and how is this organism handled at the time when it has already been mentioned here several times? Therefore, a system of plant quarantine was set up to prevent the introduction and spread of new types of pests and pathogens on plants, the systems of plant quarantine rules in the European Union were changed in late 2019, and we in Croatia are gradually adapting these rules to the old system of plant quarantine in the new rules clearly stressing the greater role of the public. Regulation 2016/2031 is a basic act regulating plant quarantine in the EU, and it is prescribed that any citizen should, if addressed, report suspicion of the presence of a quarantine harmful organism on his plant. Well, now we really have to ask the question how much is an average citizen trained to recognize something like that? The question of whether Croatia has a strategic document to plan for the protection of plant health is a good question, the answer is a concrete no, but the answer to that question kind of fits into the Strategy and the Action Plan for the Protection of Nature of the Republic of Croatia for the period until 2025 as well as the Agriculture Strategy presented here by the Minister, the 2030 Strategy. The threat of the regions in Croatia on this subject can only be seen against endangered species that the pest could parasite i.e. according to production intensity. It is clear that we will not expect an oak pest to the extent possible in areas where the oak has no or harmful mandarin in the same intensity in the Neretva valley or in Slavonia. The same goes for all other cultures and pests. The entry of pests is possible in almost all ways, given modern times, transit of goods and the possibility of trade in goods. Therefore, some colleagues and colleagues here said it was necessary to carry out continuous and precise professional surveillance. So, control, control, control. But what has intrigued many MPs and MPs, and here we are intrigued by the Homeland Movement, I will read a few lines from the legal proposal itself. In order to implement this law, additional resources should be provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. In order to ensure the monitoring of 10 new harmful organisms, it is necessary to upgrade the application my name is MOBIDI PEST. Means for the given application i.e. for the update and upgrade of the application, information activities are provided at the level of €675,000 for the current year 2022. For those who don't know, and neither did I until I read the MOBIDI PEST app is one of the information systems in plant health. That system is necessary for the monitoring of harmful organisms in the Republic of Croatia and for the purpose of implementing the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/NA 2031 which I have already mentioned. The same application serves the Ministry of Agriculture, the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food and the State Inspectorate. Of course, everyone here has asked one question, and so do I. What is this application in which, for additional monitoring of 10 new harmful organisms, we need to take 675,000 kunas to Croatian taxpayers and drawn from the draft law of the government session, funds for the stated purpose are secured on K84 activities, etc., for this 2022. 675,000 kuna, but projections for 2023 and '24. the year of funding is not intended for activities related to the upgrade of the information system but will be planned at the already mentioned height of 675,000 per year when drawing up a budget plan for a new three-year period ending in 2025. So, we will address Minister Vukkovic with a representative question to see what kind of application the introduction of which is the introduction of 10 new harmful organisms costs 675,000 kuna and ask, from a sound perspective, why it is that the introduction of new harmful organisms is not done by the user, but for this we must obviously hire an agency at the height of this amount, so I believe that through the public procurement process we will come to someone who will do so even though we are afraid in this case that everything is already agreed. My dear Croatian citizens almost 2 million kunas of your money stand out there high in the air and simply wait for who will take them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100335	Mr. Ljubomir Kolarek will represent HDZ's views on this law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100336	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues and the proposal, the proposal for these amendments and the addition of the Law on Plant Health is governed and harmonised by our legal regulations with that of the European Parliament. The Republic of Croatia is obliged to take over in its legislation of European legislation, i.e. to create a legal basis for the adoption of sublegal acts resulting from the EU regulation. Today's amendments and amendments to the laws will therefore allow for further implementation of Regulation 2016/2031 of the European Parliament and of the Council and for the implementation of Commission Regulation 2017/2313. What exactly is plant health? The health correctness of plants is of paramount importance for plant production, forests, nature, natural ecosystems and biodiversity, and the very production of plants is also the basis of a food chain without whose production there would be no food for both humans and animals. A huge number of harmful organisms and plant diseases endangers food production at global level. It affects the productivity and biodiversity of forests, the wild flora of the natural environment. The most common cause of the head is man himself, and it should also be noted that the global trade of plants carries the risk of spreading harmful organisms. The new proposal for amending and supplementing the law regulates certain areas of plant health such as the introduction of an information system, the monitoring of harmful organisms, the introduction of certain plants and other objects into the border areas of the Republic of Croatia, phytosanitary supervision, the establishment of an expert committee to approve and recall quarantine cells and isolation areas and other issues which will positively affect the implementation of the Law on Plant Health. The personal mission of the competent authorities, plant health authorities, should be to protect its territory from the introduction and spread of organisms harmful to plants, to create basic conditions for the efficient production of healthy plant reproductive material in agriculture and forestry, to ensure sufficient amounts of healthy and high-quality food within its jurisdiction. Furthermore, the mission... Plant health authorities are also training and raising the awareness of agricultural producers and other stakeholders in the implementation of plant and public health on the need to preserve the environment in which we live. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The protection of plants against harmful organisms and plant diseases is always more cost-effective than restraint, eradication or in the worst case of the resolution of the consequences of the uncontrolled influence of harmful organisms. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Law on Plant Health aims to protect and protect the territory of the Republic of Croatia from harmful organisms, which should certainly contribute to safer agricultural production, better environmental protection, forests, public and private property, and consequently lower use of plant protection funds. Defining the conditions and methods of approval and recalling the work of quarantine cells and isolation space will help reduce the risk of the spread of harmful organisms, and the establishment of an information system in plant health will allow the interested public to have information at all times on uninfected, infected and endangered regions in the case of quarantine harmful organisms. In addition to harmonising with European legislation, the aim of this proposal is to strengthen the sustainability and productivity of Croatian agricultural production and this is a topic that should be very current today. In some ways, putting in place the full drive of all Croatian agricultural areas in today's global situation is crucial to me, perhaps it is a detour from the topic of plant health, and in this situation we need to think about increasing the productivity of Croatian agriculture and trying to meet with all our resources the needs of our citizens may sound impossible, but I don't think it's unrealistic. Given the situation in Eastern Europe, we must be prepared to produce all grains of olives that form the basis of most basic food products, including livestock. Now may be a real opportunity, for our agriculture and for our farmers we should do everything and help in all possible ways. This bill of law may be a small wind in the back towards that goal. Therefore, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this law in its first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100337	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual discussions. She's Mrs. First. Mariana Petir, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100338	... State Secretary, Director, Representatives and Representatives. [[Last-on speaker]] Most citizens of the quarantine plan were not too close until the disease of the coronary virus had appeared, which has taught us experiencedly what quarantine means in the full sense of the word. Prevention, risk recognition, timely response, roles of professional services, prevention of the spread of the threat, and the role of individuals and society in quarantine are essential in every type of health care, as well as in plant health. There are more and more people who unfortunately suffer from allergies today, and this moves us to think, which would have been if ambrosia had been successfully eradicated perhaps before 70 C.E. And if it had never spread to agricultural areas, would we then have a better picture and would then have perhaps less health problems for thousands of people that it causes, for which its pollen causes really big, major deteriorations in the health sense. Similarly, in the case of a number of other plant diseases or pests that have entered and destroyed Croatia in the past, and today we find ourselves more of a common phenomenon against which we take protection measures. Let's just remember that our old man always talked about a philosopher who in the 19th century destroyed almost 70% of European vineyards. The stronger and more intense the disease spreads, of course, that then the control measures are more severe, the damage can really come... the proportion and therefore it is important to eradicate it at the beginning of the quarantine disease either in plants or when we talk about pests that can in some ways destroy these plants. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some examples from a nearer or further future show us that early eradication is actually the most effective measure in the quarantine itself to be pursued and to which all energy, resources and knowledge needs to be directed. And in plant health in Croatia today there are cases of quarantine diseases of pests that have spread limited to our territory, and today it is really hard to eradicate them. Such are, for example, the golden jaundice of the vine and the thorny protective moth of the agrum. We also have examples in our nearby neighborhood of Italy, Spain and France where the dangerous bacteria of Xylella fastidos have spread, and unfortunately its eradication is no longer possible, and unfortunately there are total olive, almond and other cultures being destroyed, which somehow alarmed other European countries to better observe the presence of this bacteria in their territory in order to detect its presence in due time and to eradicate it in time. In the mid - 1990 ’ s, potato disease was observed in Mexico, except that such potatoes were less developed in the fungi, and there were symptoms of patterns that made them unacceptable to the market. The disease began in the early 21st century in the United States causing huge losses in potato production. It's only 2008. has been found to cause a new type of bacteria, and is transmitted by the American potato flea. The disease and its bug transporter today are on the list of quarantine diseases in the EU and Croatia because they pose a great danger to potato farming. The golden jaundice of the vine is well known to us in Croatia, it comes from Joha, the assumption is that the phytoplasm of golden jaundice from Joha has moved to the vine line as a new host and the entrance of the American cricket transporter of significant jaundice to Europe has begun an epidemic that today gives worry to numerous Croatian winemakers. That is why the Ministry of Agriculture has taken certain measures to prevent the spread and control of the golden jaundice of the vine. As far as I know the last order was issued in 2019, the action plan was valid until the end of last year, the ministry also passed a map on the identification of demarked areas where the obligation to implement measures to prevent the spread and control of the disease was prescribed. And what kind of monster it really is, it also speaks of the fact that such demarked areas are located in two-thirds of Croatian counties. For all of this, I think it is very important that we have a clear legal framework and implementing mechanisms to prevent the uncontrollable introduction of pests in Croatia and preserve plant health at a satisfactory level. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100339	Mrs. Vukovac, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100340	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow Petyr. You mentioned in your ambrosia exposure an extremely invasive species, dangerous to the health of our citizens. I've been keeping a close eye on how Europe regulated certain situations, they actually have two lists of so-called. a black list that's been made public. It contains all these invasive species that are dangerous, which are actually threatened by both imports and distribution at EU level. But they also have a white list, on that white list are the sides of the species that are new, but are not so dangerous to the health of the citizens themselves. So I'm interested, do you think that the Republic of Croatia should also have a kind of division on blacklist and white which will be made public later so that citizens can cope more easily with whether something is threatening by health, whether it should be treated with special care and so on.?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100341	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100342	Thank you very much, MP Vukovac. I don't know if I understand correctly that black and white leaves actually refer to both pests, only one has an impact on human health, not the other. I think that's enough, quite a slippery ground for such a determination for that reason that perhaps in the very beginnings when we meet with some pest we can't even know the extent to which the effect of this pest on a particular plant species will cause, above all, that plant species, and then whether it can reflect human health. I think that 70 years ago, it's hard for scientists at the time to have knowledge of the harmful effects of ambrosia that we know about and see what the consequences are, in fact, not only on agricultural parcels, but because of that pollen that people have and are really struggling with. So I'm not sure the list of divisions on the black and white list can do that. contribute. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] I think we need a unique pest register and detailed research.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100343	Thank you very much. And finally Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100344	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. You mentioned a number of pests with which both citizens and farmers and in the extreme line of different countries are also fighting Croatia. There's a list of what happened. Priority harmful organisms, some 20 of them have nearly 200 of them in the EU area, even 250 are said to be lower for some of the risks of Croatia's entry by some slightly larger ones. So let's say you all mentioned the bacteria xilla fastidiosis there's an Asian strizib that actually entered Croatia, a Japanese brewer, and now that you're looking at a little bit of this app. There are various entertainment applications where you can scan some kind of plant, bush, flower and recognize what it's about. However, are our citizens, are we all sufficiently sensitive to the fact that applications should be used to identify such harmful organisms, so that in that way we can actually contribute to this phenomenon not spreading? Are we all together? sufficiently educated and whether the ministry makes enough of it. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100345	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100346	Thank you very much, colleague Maric. I'd like to refer before I respond to the presence of xilela and I hope we don't have the presence of xylella in Croatia. I remember the debate at European level when that monster hit Italy, so Spain and France, so it's a very alarming situation to eradicate it, they have to cut down the entire plantations, and you know that olives are somewhere hundreds of years away, so I think we're very good at protecting our area, and that's how it's going to stay in the future. As for education in identifying these pests, I agree with you that we are certainly not sufficiently educated, so perhaps we who come from this spectrum of natural sciences, and somehow it is understood that we may be more sensitive to such topics and are prone to research, let alone the general public. So perhaps through some educational activities and apps as you yourself mentioned it could affect public awareness and the identification of pests.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100347	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Mr. Dretar, to us, loses his right. Mr. Brkan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100348	I thank the chairman. Honorable secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The health correctness of plants is of paramount importance for the plant production of forests, nature, natural eco-systems and biodiversity, and the very production of plants and the foundation of a food chain without which there would be no food for humans or animals. What does herb health cover? Plant health shall include the protection of plants, plant products and other controlled objects from harmful organisms, the prevention of the introduction and spread of harmful organisms and their prevention by the application of phytosanitary measures, the identification of the presence and identification of harmful organisms, the optimisation of optimal plant production and trade in plants, the protection of the environment from the effects of harmful organisms. The Law on Plant Health defines the competent authorities in the implementation of the law. These are the Ministry of Agriculture, the State Inspectorate with phytosanitary and forestry inspection, the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food and the Croatian Forest Institute. Jobs to monitor the introduction of plants, plant objects into the border area of the Republic of Croatia. In exceptional cases, authorised border officials of the Republic of Croatia may also perform, and other legal persons with public authority may be authorised to carry out tasks and tasks in the field of plant health. The law defines lists of harmful organisms such as quarantine harmful organisms, priority harmful organisms, non-ranantene harmful organisms, quarantine harmful organisms of protected areas, and unregulated quarantine pests of plants. Global trade in plants and plant products has greatly increased the risk and potential for the spread of plant pests and diseases around the world. New sides of the species also appear regularly in Croatia. Some of them succeed in domesticating and causing major damage to agriculture, forestry, and the natural environment. Plant quarantine is one of the basic preventive measures for plant protection. The main objective of plant quarantine is to prevent foreign pests and plant diseases from being introduced into new areas where they were not otherwise present. At global level, 40% of crops are now lost to the protection of organisms and plant diseases due to harmful organisms and plant diseases in terms of economic value, only plant diseases cost the global economy $220 billion a year and invasive species about $70 billion. Preventing the introduction of new foreign and potentially destructive plant pests or diseases prevents millions of damage in the domestic economy. The rapid reaction here is the key, identification of pests or pathogens and its effective early eradication is the goal of general social importance. This protects domestic agriculture, forestry, the environment and the economy in general. The monitoring and control system of the presence of quarantine harmful organisms of plants in Croatia has long been established and implemented by law-defined competent authorities. Experience gained in the implementation of the Law on Plant Health has shown certain shortcomings, i.e. the need for clearer definitions of certain procedures. This proposal introduces the concept of information systems in plant health, plant health information systems protects the application of competent authorities in the implementation of the Law on Plant Health through which data on quarantine harmful organisms will be collected, entered and updated in the Union. The proposed law also provides for the exchange of information from information systems in plant health between competent authorities. The bill also provides for the possibility of public publication of information systems that would serve as a basis for the creation of strategic documents in the field of plant health. Further, the provisions relating to the entry of certain plants, plant products and other objects into the border areas of the Republic of Croatia are set out in more detail. The procedures for the approval of the operation of quarantine cells and the space for isolation shall be detailed. The proposed provisions of this bill improve the legal framework of national legislation in a part that has not been prescribed so far, thus achieving a more effective implementation of plant health in the Republic of Croatia. In any case, the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Plant Health are good, desirable and I believe that all our institutions dealing with the control of plant species and plant world will do their job better and more effectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100349	Thank you. Mrs. Petyr's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100350	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When you were talking about numbers of how much the global economy actually costs, they cost the consequences when the damage happens and when it's hard to get rid of them later, it reminded me of the one better to prevent them than to treat them. The Secretary of State said in his introduction that we are following 47 quarantine pests that we have on our territory, that this annually costs us two million kunas and we see that for some of these pests that are almost impossible to eradicate we have special measures, action plans, orders that are being issued. Unfortunately, in some areas it is necessary to extract a part of the vine plantation, which again causes certain financial consequences. Do you think that through this new regulation, which is a kind of improvement, we will be able to minimise these financial costs in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100351	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100352	Well, I'm afraid we won't root them out. So plant diseases of the invasive species in the global world, the global economy as we have a constant, and as I said it means, and every little one appears some kind of domestication in our space. However, this is precisely the goal of amending and supplementing the law on enhanced control and a better information system, i.e. records of these plant invasive species and plant diseases, so that as many and as early as possible we can detect them so that they can be placed in the so-called. quarantine, basically try to root out. The proposed amendments and additions to the law are heading in this direction, however, the figure is fragrant. The annual 220 billion means it's lost to plant diseases. Now imagine how much this is, in essence, the availability of food, what amounts of food available to the market, and therefore the price of food would be lower and all if it weren't for plant diseases of invasive species.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100353	Mr. Miletić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100354	Thank you, Vice President Radin. Dear Brkana, today we talked about glyphosate many times, and we said that on 15 December, the EU-wide permit for the use of glyphosate stands out. We know that he was completely banned from Austria. Germany announced that it would be banned before the end of the deadline. We know that there are some interest groups that push the use of glyphosate, but, of course, money is a priority for these people because 30, 40% of the crops grow better, but they're poisonous brothers if it's nice. We've got a lot of lawsuits all over the world, the million-dollar Monsanto, the Bayer, the whole story that we're not going too wide right now. Do you think the Secretary of State today said that we are going in the same direction as the ban, do you think we will be able to ban it before the deadline, so by the end of this year and show here is one boldness and courage as the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100355	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100356	Thank you. A respected colleague like you said today is on March 30th to December 25th, until December 15th there's still plenty of time, if the government is working in that direction, if it's going to be banned, I believe it's going to happen by then and we won't miss the deadlines. However, it is also important to support these amendments and amendments to the law because we see that perhaps most of these plant diseases and invasive pests can be prevented with these strict controls. a new information system where such species and timely quarantine are recorded. I believe that the government of the Republic of Croatia as well as we all want the best for our entire population to be farmers of any agricultural product users.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100357	Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100358	Thank you, Chairman. Dear counterpart Brcana, therefore, more than 750 products on the shelves have found traces of glyphosate believed or claimed to be quite safe to claim to be carcinogenic. What I'm going to ask you is something that is related to itself, to the subject itself, so change. Do you think that there will be enough 77,000 kunas foreseen in these changes to monitor 10 new harmful species? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100359	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100360	I thank my dear colleague, I don't know about the accuracy of 750 of which was, how can I say polluted glyphosate, where this study is and where it was done, I haven't heard of it. And I also believe that every investment in improving plant health in the Republic of Croatia does not work for one year, it is not until the end of the year, if we invest in improving the system, information system, additional control, additional quarantines, it will not be for just one year, the fruits will return and in the future until we find something better and something stronger for it. So every investment in protection, this protection of plant species, I keep it worth it because you said so yourself, it won't even need to glyphosate unless there are plant diseases and pests.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100361	And Mrs. Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100362	Thank you. Today, we all mention this famous information position among other things, and you mentioned it in your debate, but I would like to point out again that we are increasingly witnesses that, by any law of the Ministry of Agriculture, these information systems under quotes grow like mushrooms after the rain. Can you tell me because I don't know, what is this in order of the Ministry of Agriculture's information system? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100363	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100364	I thank my dear colleague, unfortunately I really don't know what the information system is by the Ministry of Agriculture, but you and I have worked together in the tourist community, so I remember when the government of the SDP introduced the information system e-visitor into the system of the tourist community, I remember that at the time they argued that who knows what this system is in order, so it won't be good, so at the end of the day, we all who worked in the tourist community, entered, set up, an e-visitor put up by the Ministry of Tourism of the SDP Government and today we use it and so far I think it's already experienced a few... And she was better and better every time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, he should not be so skeptical when something new comes from the Ministry of Agriculture or anyone else, and the goal is to improve users, improving means something that is available to our citizens. We hold that the triba supports, not priors to dismiss.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100365	Thank you, you have no more replicas, and it's Mr. Marin Miletic's turn. ... I'm protecting you, now you can, now it's absolutely aseptic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100366	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Radin, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, all day long here from early morning we have been discussing the most important topic of agriculture, of the 2 laws, now we are talking about plant health. We said that both laws were connected and that we could really talk in one term about this important subject and we said a lot about the law itself, we praised that we thought we should be praised, we criticized that we thought we should be criticised. And I would now like to put the emphasis again on this particular glyphosate that my hero, our Mayor of Sinja Miro Bulj, has spoken a lot and finally the only one here talked about from the constituency clubs, benches, so you know what round up Monsanto, so be careful that there is no valid evidence that the Herbicides cause cancer and then pay 14 billion dollars, people, 14 billion dollars pay that more than 100,000 litigations don't continue in court. So, my daughter in the second grade would say, well, daddy who's a snot, because who would pay 14 billion, you wouldn't give 14 grand when I know I'm right, and you're suing me to lose everything, I say, let's go to the end because I'm right. I'm right, I'm not afraid of anyone when you're right, but when your pants shake because you're a thief, because you're a fraud, because you're responsible for the death of millions of people, then you'll pay 14 billion. And that's why I'm glad that my Miro Bulj here was talking about this Monsanto, the glyphosate and all these troubles, the troubles that have hit the world, these frauds, the interest groups, the deceivers, the shadow directors, the players from behind that affect the health of our people. So let's be positive. The secretary of state promised me here today that the secretary of state would say that as I nodded you all with your head, your head was nodding with me, so we spoke very clearly about what Austria had banned from glyphosate completely, Germany announced that it was prohibiting it. I talked this morning about how Thailand, the state of 70 million inhabitants, completely banned glyphosate, we talked about how Professor Dr. Valeria Vreček, so the head of the Institute of Organic Chemistry, the Faculty of Pharmaceutical and Biochemistry in Zagreb, says glyphosate in Croatia should be banned as soon as possible, that herbicide is numbered, the profession says, as they say, listen to the profession whether, therefore, we listen to the profession, we prohibit the import product, poor agrochemical sciences, and because of its use, many harmful environmental and health effects have been discovered. Millions and millions are losing this corporation with lawsuits, now Bayer is the owner of all of it, so Croatia should show courage, strength and not wait there for a moment for people who are in bigger positions of power than here and we will not wait as a colleague of Brkan tells me, we will not wait for the end of the year, but we will show courage and the Croatian state prohibits the use of glyphosate now, so here now, next week, the government comes and says we are not waiting because we protect the citizens of the Republic, we protect their health and we care that neither nature nor people are being poisoned. I said art. 71, so we support this law that speaks of bees. It is important to protect bees, beekeeping products, and especially important that in the time of pollination of our bees will be protected, and therefore thank you State Secretary for caring, thank you for putting together a good education, so it is also good that our students of the Faculty of Agriculture and forestry do not have to run for these cards rather than get them because they have earned it, it is good that under quotes small people can therefore care about their land so that they do not have to hire and that they are helped financially, and I told you that given our experience with the threatening drones never again to God that at least we can allow farmers to ask their crops with drones, so it would be good to put it in there. Here, so much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100367	Mr. Ante Kujundzic, first replica. Someone's got, somebody's got a light, somebody's got a light. No, not that, not that, mine has nothing to do with it. [[Clip incursion: Microphone]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100368	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague Miletic, so glyphosate... Well, my colleague Bulj, you've been pretty focused on him in all your discussions today. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like you to comment on one thing, so neither Tihomir Jakovina from the SDP government, later neither Mr Tolusic nor Mrs. Vukkovic did not bring a certain form of ban on the use of glyphosate despite their statements being diametrically contrary. Mr Tolusic quotes him, says, given the total consumption of glyphosate in Croatia according to the available information on glyphosate, about 50% of total consumption of all active preparations in the Republic, it is not possible to rule out risks for both workers and residents near the use of glyphosate, animals and the environment as a whole. He didn't forbid it. After which, Mrs. McNally. [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you]] Vuckovic It's also in the same direction [[/Intruder: Mr. Kujundzic's time.]] Why is that? [[Intruder: Mr. Kujundzic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100369	Here's the answer. Why is that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100370	If I were a prophetic son, and then I might know the answer to your question, colleague Kujundzic, then perhaps I could just assume what might happen. We know that Croatian democracy is growing and we know that the processes in our country are growing, not as much as we would like quickly and quality, but some shifts are happening, and real shifts will happen when corruption and nepotism are cleaned up that country. We lose billions of kuna a year because of corruption and nepotism, and when we clean them up, clean up corruption and nepotism, then there won't be any more of them talking, others thinking, third of them stealing, and fourth of them stealing.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100371	Mr. Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100372	Dear Chairman, thank you. Dear fellow Miletic, first of all, I would like to thank you for taking such a comprehensive look at this subject and showing first of all thanks to our Miri Bulju, who is really a fighter against Monsant and other companies that spread these herbicides not only across the United States but also on European soil, and I think that the members of the administration and Monsanta are quite afraid of Mira Bulja. And my question is this, given that you've dealt with this topic more comprehensively, I'm interested in this bill on health, so it was already about a year and a half ago at the debates, and I'm wondering if you think since we're discussing today again whether there's been some bureaucratic changes, whether there's really been a change or if it's been seen in the field, and I'm asking you because we're already discussing it twice, and we're falling apart and dying so it's a pretty serious problem, so I'm wondering why we didn't immediately discuss it all and set out to, in the healing of our forests?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100373	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100374	Thank you, colleague Troscott. I've had a lot of ups and downs around reading this bill in, in, I don't know if Sunday or when, I had even a slight fit of depression, so I wrote to you in a group of fellow MPs, and I won't, I won't deal with this law because I read it, so I got in, so I didn't know which direction I was in, and then Kujundzic told me that when I checked in nicely to read it out and that I was talking nice about it, I didn't even get a teacher first if he was from Agronomic college, but here's the gentleman put it all together, so it didn't turn out wrong. I think in the second part of the answer to your question, I forgot exactly what you asked me, I'm a little tired, and I haven't eaten as much as I should have, so I got a little executed, but mostly I think we can all do a lot better in the opposition and colleagues who are ruling and we encourage them to be better with us the way we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100375	Thank you, sir. You made yourself clear. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100376	Thank you very much. In previous mandates, counterpart Miletic, I gave the law on the ban on GMOs in traffic, sales, in planting, but the majority here did not accept even then opposition. The GMO connected to the glyphosate is simply a Monsanto corporation so powerful that it buys every government together with Bayer German united, meaning the pharmaceutical industry and this war poison industry because Monsanto first produced war poisons that burned both Vietnam and other places. And from the state, I am that the law is here on September 4, 2020 on the ban on glyphosate. It's on the assembly pages in the procedure and it's not coming up. Why? So we all know that the glyphosate or the cidocor people will understand the color is very dangerous and Carcogen. You know why they don't want it, because Monsanto is the patron of most governments, and it seems to me to be the government of Andrej Plenkovic. So 2 years is in the process of this law What are you ashamed of him for? [[Intruder: Answer.]] Here you are, Mr. President, for two years, the law on the ban on glyphosate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100377	Answer, answer Mr. Miletic, answer. I'm sorry about the subject, but you see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100378	Give me back two seconds, Radin seconds please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100379	No, no, we'll get that back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100380	Thank you. So, colleagues Bulj, the Croatian public must know, we're a little tired, so we laugh, we're here all day, and we better laugh than cry, many of our people pay, pay and farmers, pay and all those who expect help, many get it, many don't get it. But once again Monsanto paid the current Bayer whether, 14 billion dollars to solve the lawsuits launched by more than 100,000 users in the United States. That, therefore, does not matter HDZ, the Croatian Social Democrats, who have been here all day in the assembly, so MOST's me and my SDP colleague, the doctor, and... So 14 billion are paid, you wouldn't want someone to give if they were right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So they are the poisoners of the Croatian country, the poisoners. I stopped.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100381	Okay, thank you very much, Mr. Miletić. We mentioned that SDP is now not a democracy. Mrs. Andreja Maric will now answer that question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100382	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, therefore, all of this you have stated can really be found when you Google a little about glyphosates that cause and non hodgin with novolymph, multiple and myeloma, breast cancer etc. It is interesting that it is also said in the European Parliament that has actually rebelled against them that the use of glyphosate in the EU should be prohibited by 15 December 2022 at the latest, so we are now waiting for where we will be in the whole story. But now I'm going a little bit over to what you've also said, corruption, nepotism, all of which we're fair against it, so I'm just interested in your opinion if you've figured out the amount of 675,000 kuna that's intended for 2022, 2023, 2024, which is exactly what it is to upgrade the maintenance dish, but again it's not like we're all critical I went a little bit to the Ministry of Agriculture has that menu where you can find information about plant protection, frequent questions. and answers, but there's no herbal health, and there's a review going on. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100383	Here's your answer. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100384	We must strive to, thank you, we must strive to make everything very clear and keep everything very clear and very transparent. This money that we talked about today, and some colleagues in the debates said it was very questionable in every respect. So, when it's taken as part of this project and there's no one else but us who are in opposition to really keeping watch over all of this and when we see that everything that's not supposed to happen is happening to the Croatian public and that we hope that the idea of Gibbony's mind will come true when he says, I'll do it another time. So God gave my dear Gibbonne to hear you from the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100385	I don't know how much that's in line with, but we hope he didn't listen to you looking for a tantium. Mr. Ban, Mrs. Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100386	As I understand it, you have said that the European Court of Justice has ordered the European Food Safety Authority to publish all studies on the risks of cancer that can be associated with the use of gliphosphate in pesticides. We know that EFSA refused to publish said studies in order to protect the interests of a company using gliphosphates and that would be a judicial decision that represents a turning point in the fight for transparency of EU decisions. This made it clear that, in this case, secrecy in the protection of these business data and interests is not justified. It also states in the court's decision that the International Cancer Research Agency has assessed glyphosphate as a potentially carcinogenic ingredient. Please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100387	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100388	Thank you, fellow Boska Ban, for your question. So what she said before to a doctor's colleague, so you write it literally into Google if it's glyphosate and you come up with a bunch of scientific papers, so not some grandmother Wang now, so now she's talking about how it's poisoning, but research, so the EU is when I'm preparing for this topic is doing 11 scientific research on the harmfulness of glyphosate, two said it's not so bad 2, and all the others said it's very harmful and it's with these diseases, and with those diseases, here's the doctor here, and she talked more specifically about it. So, I really don't think we have anything to wait for the end of the year, so we're gonna bring something again because the European mother pushed us to bring it in, but we're gonna go ban that glyphosate now, man, ban it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100389	Mrs. Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100390	Thank you. According to data from the Ministry of Agriculture since 2019. 21 plant protection products containing the active substance glyphosate were authorised in Croatia. Its total consumption ranges up to 50% of the total consumption of herbicidal products in Croatia. Minister Vukkovic herself said Croatia will participate in all the discussions and if further scientific research is to be ordered because there is no substitute for now. As far as we know, the ministry still has no clear answer and no concrete shifts. What is your opinion of how much, in fact, the average population, or average, is familiar with the fact that glyphosate is generally harmful?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100391	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100392	Thank you, fellow Martin for your question. You know what, don't let anyone mind me, even though I find the minister so sweet, I think the new minister will deal with it because as far as I understand some announcements between these four, five, six that are leaving and she's there for you. Now it's come out that Minister Berosch is also ex, but good Lord, may everyone who needs an ex be, who needs to stay present, whether it's how it's going. Uh, so I don't know if I answered, yeah, I'll answer your question. Definitely citizens need to be educated, our people don't even know how dangerous the glyphosate is, they don't know that it should be, as it is in instructions, once a year to treat no, and then a team comes along, and then throws it and throws it away and then wonders whether, downstairs, let's not mind mine on Neretva if you put your foot in Neretva as soon as you get out, it's code you're single-footed but in the hospital if there's how much of all that glyphosate that's pouring in, so get out in Neretva.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100393	- Mrs. Crescent. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100394	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Miletic, we are now discussing plant health and quarantine pests, and you have remained on pesticides and on glyphosate, which is the topic of the past law that we have already discussed. I agree that glyphosate is a very important topic and I must say that general populism does not go with you, especially when you tend to say things that are not true, and you said that no one has responded when it comes to glyphosate at European level. I have to tell the truth about that 2017. The Croatian representative voted against the extension of the glyphosate proposed by the Commission and I voted in the European Parliament against it, and if I am not mistaken, a large part of the Croatian MPs. Our vote wasn't enough because most of us decided to extend the deadline to 5 years. by means of a scientific community reaction and by means of a reaction from farmers who were concerned if glyphosate was banned from having an effective means of defending its agricultural crops and was then ordered by the European Commission to find a new active substance. I wonder what you know about it and is this new active substance for the new pesticide found?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100395	Thank you very much. It was interesting, but the time is coming. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100396	My colleague Petyr, as a theologian, and I'm a theologian, you know it's not a moral sin if you didn't know it, so I apologize to you, so I didn't know that you voted against it. As for pulsism, I'm not a populist to you, my charm has nothing to do with pulsism, it's simply part of my habitat, so I'm, I'm saying, I'm an extrovert, I'm open, people are laughing with me, they feel good about me, who's in society other than the ministry of truth called the factographer, he kind of doesn't like me, but maybe they didn't drink coffee with me, so they don't like me. I'm a little bit of a joke, so I'm sorry, I didn't know you voted against, thank you for that, and thank you for everything in your efforts to take care of Croatian farmers and for the good of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100397	Thank you very much. The theologians and my Ph.D. says I'm a doctor of psychology and philosophy and theology, so forgive me, but we're all a little bit of theologians here. Mr. Bull, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100398	So that we don't talk much about populism here, I'm going to tell the board's president right now that, Mariana Petir, since her great concern about the glyphosate is that the law is 2nd. in the procedure on the ban on glyphosate I gave in the procedure and in the last term he was also here to debate him, however, since the elections were so not even voted and debated. As a parliamentary representative, I immediately gave two very important i.e. Three important laws regarding agriculture. One of the key is the ban on glyphosate and this is not populism, this is the law that was in the procedure that was in the government and the government gave an opinion, I don't know if it was on the board, I can't sit down, but I only know that the ban on this GMO product and in transport and in trade and in crops, except for medical purposes, which would of course be determined by the Ministry of Health. These two laws are currently in the process, but not Monsanto in front of everything, so we voted in the EU for, so we were a little restrained, so we figured it wouldn't go away, so now we all have to do that. You have the law, me and my club here are not populists, 2. It is, 2.g. is the law, 2nd year, 2nd year, Marijana Petir, Madam Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture 2nd year. is this bill in the procedure of banning glyphosate, the greatest pest for man and for plants. I've had other topics I could talk about. or thousands of other topics, but this is the most dangerous, behind this is Monsanto, behind this is the lobby, behind this is billions, billions, a system that destroys both seeds and organic production, traditional production, so we even brought ourselves into line with European directives to modify seeds. There will be Chinese onion every sea seed is not worth the same otherwise, so we cannot kill the village and peasants and we cannot allow our cup to be guinea pigs and this is repeated from mandate to mandate. I've spoken countless times from this pay phone, I've given an amendment to the government's law in past terms, let's not let our cup be guinea pigs. And then we wonder where the tumor numbers come from, so you know what a cidocor is if someone's looking at it, so when you pour a troscot, the cost disappears. No. My colleague's Troscott. Weed. Look, so we have the greatest danger, my only friend is spreading. Look, we have a big problem with these poisons and we're laughing, we're trying to be happy, but you can tell me that this mob that has control and control over all governments and the EU Parliament are very strong lobbyists, these are sacks of money, a bunch of money that they give to their listeners in the government. And what's going on? It happens, and I think here's what I'm doing. I got 11,000 preferential votes, and what does that mean? Now, here's mine here, standing the law for two years in procedure, two years. So don't accept it, modify it or send it to Monsanto maybe he'll modify it. If something is wrong with this bill, because the truth is the World Health Organization says that carcogen has been proven in court disputes that people die from it and we continue to keep quiet about it. So you know how many soy imports from countries treated with glyphosate? And this feeds on pork or other animals in the EU and during meat comes naturally to us in the organism. So research says 44% of the people in the EU have the wrong glyphosate, the poison, the cidocor herbicide, which is the most dangerous, we all know. And we know that Monsanto was producing weapons of war, the greatest poisons of battle, poisoning people, and he just changed in production here on this shift. Seeds that are resistant to glyphosate, a seed that is resistant to glyphosate. So once again, the law is there, this isn't populism, two years in the procedure here, you'd ask the chairman of the board. to come and guide this in. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, thank you.]] Parliament. [[Intruder Radin: Time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100399	Mr. Troscott, you have a chance to respond to Mr. Bull's delusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100400	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Bull. My question is this, so do you see the perspective of shutting down this glyphosate because it's a known case in the U.S. where a small, small American gardener literally managed to get a historical verdict that changed history with herbicides in the U.S., so do you see that perspective? Two, did you have an example that someone in your son's province filed a lawsuit against Monsanto? Because when someone asks about Mira Bulja, three are the things people say, says Sinjska krajina, says fighting for peasants and farmers and says glyphosati says they're running away from him. So here's what I'm curious about is whether in your area the same thing was the fight against it was a lawsuit, and did they ever threaten you with death or something when you fought so openly against these large companies that more Croatian fields and fields of the Dalmatian mountain were not polluted?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100401	Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100402	Thank you very much. ... about you with the cost, but I'll just say a little bit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The linkage between Monsanta now sold to a German company would connect Bayern and Monsanto pharmaceutical industry and this is where the agricultural industry of herbicides and pesticides and seeds means they control everything and the EU legislation we attribute literally wants us to modify the seeds according to their gauges. No more homemade carrots any more than we can plant in the garden, you have to make a request. We don't have a strong strong bank of our seed of the traditional old, but we have the seeds that they trick us into. The sea was successful, he said he didn't give birth to a chapel anywhere this year, so it got you to buy their product, so Monsanto is the biggest pest. But they are not as much vermin as the import lobby in government ministries that have been bought in the EU too. Because there's no reason why this doesn't go away, no reason. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100403	Thank you, Mr. Bull. Mrs. Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100404	I thank the chairman. So, my colleague Bulj, this Law on Plant Health, we comply primarily with Regulation No. 2016/2031 of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016, we also agreed with the same regulation in 2019. Why do you think it takes years and several attempts to comply with EU regulations because it costs, costs time, costs money, costs administrative resources, why does this happen to us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100405	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100406	Well, look, we're just the regular copyists of the regulations that we've been doing, and we're neatly copying this whole thing, and I'm surprised that we haven't been before, but we're neatly copying regulations and EU directives like we've been assigned to the task. Of course it's a frame of some kind. It's not an order. Then why HS, why the people's representatives? So I simply don't understand why we don't pass the law, it doesn't have to be this one, you can write it down as a ban on the use of glyphosate in the Republic of Croatia. We want clean land, we want clean food, we want organic production, we want alternatives we want, and we don't prescribe regulations and directives here all day long. And at the end of the term of office, the president of the assembly, together with the Presidency of Honor and Words, passed the 1966 law and we brought everything into line with the European directives, and at the end of the implementation nothing, zero. Still import lobby and Monsanto crime, corruption and that's it, that's sad for this assembly, they humiliated us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100407	Thank you, thank you, thank you. No, no, you don't have to answer if you don't want to. Here you go, Mr. Miletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100408	Thank you, Mr. Radin. Mr. Bulj is important for the Croatian public, so we may even be a little hard on each other, but that the Croatian public knows. So, the story of Monsanto, people paid billions, 14 billion dollars paid people to suspend court proceedings, because people sued them to die, to die of glyphosate. So, would anyone with a grain of prudence think a company would pay someone $14 billion because of what? He's wrong. So please comment and what do you think we can do as a state to protect our peasant, to protect organic production in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100409	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100410	What can we do? We must first pass the law, and of course we must have an alternative. Croatia has 700,000 ha of unprocessed agricultural land ecologically preserved for what? Because it wasn't processed and it wasn't treated. And we have the possibility of organic production is the future, traditional production is the future. Of course modern production. So I signed in Sinj with the University of Split to be a university in this area for agriculture Mediterranean and agriculture, to be at Sinj University. Signed, found objects, designed projects to deal with our Mediterranean traditional cultures. But in a modern way, to modernise it all together, and not to have them give us poison. 14 billion, so that gardener's evidence, a man who got Cidokore's disease. They pay billions. Monsanto is an organization that corrupts everything around it, and mainly factors and lobbyists within strong institutions, and it must be put to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100411	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas now. And now we're moving on to final club reviews. The first is Mrs Boska Ban Vlahek in front of the SDP, who are still Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100412	I would like to thank the chairman, dear secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have heard today several times that the new draft amendments and amendments to the law will regulate in more detail certain areas of plant health such as the management of the information system for the monitoring of harmful organisms, the introduction of certain plants and other objects into the border areas of the Republic of Croatia, phytosanitary supervision, the establishment of an expert committee for the approval and recall of quarantine cells and the space for isolation as well as other issues that we hope will have a positive impact on the implementation of the Law on Plant Health. I repeat, the SDP Club welcomes the fact that this proposal to amend and supplement the law makes the procedures for approving the work of quarantine cells and the space for isolation more detailed. As stated in the opening statement, I believe that all laws require a systematic approach to achieve a long-term positive effect on users and citizens, not to change articles under the cover of harmonisation of the law with the European regulatory ad hoc without an analysis of the consequences and difficulties that this law will have for citizens in practice. I therefore believe that the first review of the law has already identified potential problems with complaints, problems for the implementation of digitisation and information, problems with competences and so on, and so on, that the law should be corrected in order to be beneficial to the state and its citizens, and not just an act that we adopt pro-forma. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100413	You, too. Mr. Sinisha Yunkac, the HDZ Representatives Club is also final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100414	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with the head of the sector, let's go a little bit then and finally about plant health if anything else is final. So the Law on Plant Health even though colleagues spoke in this section of the pesticide harmfulness law, so in fact very little was said about the Law on Plant Health itself. Of course, as we have heard here, it is about harmonising the law with European norms and it is not true that we are particularly late because there is also a time when the European Commission also gives national legislation to implement the law itself and all other laws in its legislation. We have heard that no jurisdiction has been defined, and as far as I can see in this law, jurisdiction has been defined through the Ministry, through the Agency, the Phytosanitary Service and through the State Inspectorate, which has been established recently as well as as as we know, taking on a significant part of the supervision of both agriculture and in all other sectors, here especially the supervision of plant health. Here's my colleague Bulj said that he wasn't talking about the underpasser, he might have been better off mentioning that this law will allow him to deal with the problems of the underpassers better if we talk about the impact, the negative impact of the footers on the woods, the parks, etc. So the law itself is and there in some way enables solving potential problems or existing problems. What is defined and important in any case is that each law has certain financial bases on which it can be applied, and we see in the law itself that it is intended for the monitoring of implementation, for all that is necessary in the application is the establishment of an information system. It provides for 675000 kuna in 2020 and also for the following years from 2023 to 2025 additional 675 000 kuna, so it is not true that the law is not enforceable. In fact, we've been waiting for him for a long time and he's only one in a series of laws we recently passed to improve our agriculture. The pests affecting negatively have a negative impact on agricultural production, as we have said in various ways, and it is very important that pests are identified in time and eliminated in time and that there are mechanisms in which they can be eliminated. Just as important that unquality seeds are not sown, it is also important that we have no pests in this non-quality seed or then the selected seed. So this law defines everything. It is in line with European norms as I have said it is harmonised in time and with will, there are financial resources and here is a club of HDZ representatives will support this law and, as I said, it is on the trail of improving agricultural, complete agricultural production and the possibilities of development and indigenous species, meaning that they will not be said threatened with pests, and then also those mass productions that often know how to get out of the framework and where often, as we have heard in some other laws, we have unquality seeds, and then also in this seed of significant pests. And what's very important, and I think it's important that even in the woods, it means when we talk about a footer with this law in some way, it defines how we can solve and destroy and prevent the spread of pests and in some way improve plant health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100415	Thank you. Mr. Bull will now speak finally for the Most. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100416	Thank you. I think this is a debate about the law. continue to prescribe European regulations which contain, in themselves, what has been ordered to be ordered, and in fact it should not be an obligation but should be implemented in a way that is acceptable and enforceable. We always have to have some sort of plan to implement. However, in our case, I have said that laws are made mainly as regards agriculture and the protection of plants in this case, they are brought in clean to bring in, let's say here we have met some standard according to European legislation and that's that and that's where we stand. I once again mentioned in 2020 I gave the law in the Glyphosate ban procedure. There was the chairman of the board, there was a secretary of state, I don't see any reason why this doesn't go into debate, to the council, and to vote, so let it be against who it wants to be. And let the government propose a similar law, and as far as the glyphosate is concerned, we solved the problem. I know what this is, now you're gonna say it's populism, it's not populism if you get the law in, bill of law. So we have a lot, but now the government obviously has a more recent business dealing with itself in this crisis, if we were to have stability and seriousness in this situation mainly in terms of agriculture, villages and peasants. The village and peasant are the most important factor in our society right now. Every man is important, but a village, a peasant, a farmer. In threats without food, neither the army nor the council can. So at this point we have to invest all our energy in food production, and only to rewrite the regulations said a colleague here from 2016. Vukovac, that this Regulation of 2016, we are now discussing this regulation as here surface at this time, but the fact that at this moment, I have mentioned the prominent state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, that we, the government, would have to give subsidy measures, as much subsidies as the farmer can get to the artificial fertiliser because it simply won't be able to be enough, it won't be worth its production, there won't be any effort if there's no artificial fertiliser and this drought when it hits and if another problem arises. So when we talk about glyphosate, we often mention it, it's the key to the problem of both GMOs and Chile and some kind of problem when we talk about herbicide, plant protection. We have a wide range of plant protection problems here. So we have a problem and water and flora and fauna means flora and fauna in rivers, lakes are also affected by this glyphosate and pesticide toxins. That's how it is in the woods. So we have thousands of problems. It's essential to us that we protect and have food, water, energy. That's three things. So now we have to pray to God that there's more rain, so the electricity's collected here this morning in the local plumbing what last year was electricity they paid 200,000 now pay 700,000 kuna a month. And our lakes are empty. So we have to pray to God that it rains anyway. What's going to happen to all this? So we have countless problems. However, food, water and energy are somehow let's say 3 key and clean air of course, but these 3 things we just have to protect in, so we see in war situations either in Ukraine or somewhere else, always now the peasant puts himself first. Oring, manufacturing. So do we. We can't watch 100 kilos of artificial manure come in 1,000 kunas. The peasant can't buy this shit, but the government in Petrokemia can't do it because of the gas, it's not even Petrokemia, but it's just like that. Yes, there must be a modus, and that's what's needed at the moment. All the support after this has been delayed, now is the moment when, when it sows, when it is planted, when it is plowed and when, when we have that problem, not in four months, it will be almost, I mean, that story. So at this point I expect here I expect both I and probably the village and the peasant to rule one measure that as far as artificial fertilisers are concerned, a very strong measure to get that price back to where it belongs and that the peasant is eligible and that it is worth it. He can't give 1000 kunas for 100 kg of artificial fertiliser, and he can't get 1,000 kuna in that area where that fertiliser can even make this income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100417	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Next item of the agenda - Report on the work of the European Affairs Committee for the period from 22 July 2020 to 15 December 2021 The holder shall be the European Affairs Committee under Article. 65. The Rules of Procedure of HS. Since the applicant's representative wishes to give an additional explanation, please welcome Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100420	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, you are facing the sixth consecutive report on the work since the establishment of the European Affairs Committee HS in July 2013. when we joined the EU. The last report, which was submitted for 2019 on 8 May 2020, was re-scheduled after the constitution of the 10th meeting of the HS in the procedure of 2 November of the same year, and the debate on the report was held at the meeting of the Assembly on 12 March 2021, and was adopted at the 6th session of HS just over a year ago, exactly 19 March last year. The previous reports included a one-year period rule that coincided with the calendar years. In view of the constitution of the 10th meeting of the HS and the selection of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the European Affairs Committee on 22 July 2020, while respecting that the information on the work of the Committee is in the first half of 2020. contained in the report for 2019. The Committee submitted a report to the Assembly on its work covering the second half of 2020. and 2021. The report is otherwise followed by a format of earlier reports, but this time we sought to enter further clarifications of individual committee actions, and to respond among other things and to the comments made in the plenary debate following the previous report on work. The reporting period was marked by work in exceptional circumstances caused by the pandemic of the new coronary virus that we tried to adapt as a committee, and I am glad that in some segments we have even been able to intensify our work. At the first meeting of the Committee held in the 10th session, we adopted the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Committee on European Affairs, which was confirmed by the Assembly on 16 October 2020, and was published in the National Journal No. 116/2020 October 23rd of the same year. The Rules of Procedure of the Committee shall be governed more precisely by the work of the Committee and shall further elaborate the procedures prescribed by the Act on the Cooperation of the HS and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European Affairs and the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the possibilities and epidemiological circumstances, we participated in a series of international activities, partly in videoconferencing form. Last fall, after more than a year and a half, we continued to exchange bilateral visits, and it was a visit to Zagreb, a pardon, and a visit to Zagreb in October 2021. The delegation of the Committee on European Affairs of the Romanian Parliament's House of Representatives, and our committee's delegation visited Ankara in November at the invitation of the Committee on Harmonisation with the EU of the Great National Assembly of Turkey. During the reporting period, the Committee also submitted an amended and updated work programme to examine the position of the Republic of Croatia for 2020, as well as an work programme for 2021, following which it referred to the examination of the parent working bodies a series of views which it later concluded. We also held several meetings where reports on the EU Council meetings were held. The European Affairs Committee held a total of 28 sessions between July 2020 and December 2021, of which 3 were thematically held as part of the so-called "thesis". Days of European funds in HS. In view of the epidemiological circumstances, the Committee held a total of 4 electronic sessions during the reporting period at which all communication of the statement on agenda points was conducted via e-mail. The Committee’s remaining meetings were largely maintained in hybrid format or were allowed to take part in the videoconferencing for those who were not able to attend the sessions physically. Thanks to these tools, we could respect the business obligation to invite members of the European Parliament elected in Croatia to attend board meetings. We normally do this unconnected, but we are glad that because of the videoconferencing format, many of them were able to participate regularly and actively in our sessions. The Committee was among the first in the EU to discuss the first annual report by the European Commission on the rule of law published in September 2020. It should also be pointed out from the remaining meetings that the Committee, as well as the interested working body, discussed 3 documents later discussed at the plenary session, a proposal for a decision on a system of own resources of the EU, a proposal for a National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia until 2030, and information on a summary of the draft NPOO 2021-'26. We also celebrated the 10th anniversary of the signing of the EU's accession treaty, which was attended by signatories on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, Jadranka Kosor and Ivo Josipovic. This year earlier this month, on 9 March, we also marked the 10th anniversary of the unanimous ratification of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia. With these symbolic events that we organised according to our capabilities and respecting the epidemiological circumstances, we were in a way preparing ourselves for the 10th anniversary of Croatian membership in the EU on July 1st of next year, for which we will all be able to solemnly mark together the unburdened epidemic and war events in Europe. The main task of the European Affairs Committee is that I have already highlighted my participation in the adoption of a new EU acquis. It is a process that is completely separate from the work of the plenary session, or the committee has the power of the plenary, let's say simplified, which is usually left to the working bodies responsible for European affairs in the national parliaments of the Member States of the European Union. So, there's nothing special about us here. The special powers and the special position of the Committee on European Affairs are derived from this fact. On the eve of Croatia's entry into the European Union, a system of European affairs was designed in the Assembly, which is based on consideration of the position of the Republic of Croatia. So, on the one hand, we have proposals for legislative and non-legislative acts of the European Union that we can compare with proposals for legislation at national level, which the institutions of the European Union directly deliver to the Parliament and which we publish on the web. Page of the Parliament. On the other hand, we have the views of the Republic of Croatia on these documents as well as the views for Council meetings of the European Union delivered to the Parliament by the Government. The views delivered by the Government to us by the President of the Parliament shall be forwarded to the Committee on European Affairs, and we shall act as a coordinating body and shall forward our views to the parent working bodies for information or for action. Opinions on proposals for legislative and non-legislative acts, if these are documents from our work programme for the discussion of the position, we combine together with the texts of the proposals themselves, the documents marked by the DEU and forward them to the parent and interested working bodies. The interests of the working bodies show by proposing the inclusion of certain acts or initiatives of the European Union following which acts have been published or included in the work programme in order for the working authorities to deliver their opinions on the position to us. On the basis of the opinion of the working bodies, the Committee on European Affairs draws conclusions on the positions on which the Government operates in the Council of the European Union. On the other hand, the position for meetings of the Council of the European Union in its 10 formations shall be forwarded by the Committee to the home working bodies for information on the basis of which the working bodies may propose to hold a joint session with the Committee on European Affairs, to which the Secretary-General shall submit a report on the meeting of the Council of the European Union. These two types of positions are very different, although both are preparing for the participation of the Government's representatives in the Council of the European Union. In the light of the proposals for legislative and non-legislative acts, they shall be discussed in substance in the working groups of the Council and later on on the Committee of Permanent Representatives, etc. Correper 1 and Correper 2 in order for the ministerial level to only confirm the agreement reached at lower levels and with the European Parliament which is co-legislator at European level. Opinions on proposals for legislative and non-legislative acts that we take and from which we produce DEU documents are being prepared for Council working groups and are appropriate for our possible intervention, given that the debate in the Council on these proposals often takes several years and a few years. So here we have enough time to consider the views of both the home and the Committee themselves. On the other hand, the position for Council meetings of the European Union shall be drawn up and adopted prior to the meetings themselves, subject to the dynamics of preparation and publication of agendas at European level. At the moment of taking a position in the Assembly, the Council's meeting was most often passed, so on our part only at hockey supervision is possible in the form of possible submission of the Report on the Council's meeting held and preparations for the next meeting. In dealing with all positions, the Committee on European Affairs performs on behalf of the Parliament as a whole, and through the Committee are passing documentation flows that are completely separate from the planned session of the Croatian Parliament. In this respect, the Committee shall rely on cooperation with the Information and Documentation Service and the European Affairs Department of the Office of the International and European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament so that documents marked by the DEU and directly supplied documents can be made available to all MPs, but also to the public through the international pages of the Assembly and the parliamentary e-doc base. We believe that the system that has been set up during the last almost 9 years of Croatian membership in the European Union is already being stalking and represents a pragmatic solution that uses the instruments and capacities we have at our disposal in an appropriate way. More content involvement of the Assembly in the performance of European affairs is possible through existing mechanisms and, in this sense, I would primarily like to encourage representatives and working bodies to follow the so-called Directly delivered documents of the European Union published on our website in the section of European business. As the Assembly Media Service reported at the end of last year in 2021 for the first time there was a high visit to the content of the database directly delivered documents with more than a thousand visits to the base in English as well as more than 7,000 visits to the same base in Croatian. Any working body, representative or representative club may contact the European Commission directly regarding the individual documents provided by the Commission to the Assembly, but also related to the European Union's policies and thus obtain further clarifications and make their views known. I also encourage the working authorities to more frequently ask the Committee on European Affairs to hold joint meetings where the competent ministers or the secretary of state would submit reports on the Council meetings they participated in. As a committee, we will always respond to such a proposal and allow a joint session to be held because I think it is in the interest of everyone. I believe that more active involvement of representatives and working bodies in all phases of the European legislative process would also contribute to the contribution of the home working bodies and the European Affairs Committee not only to confirm the position as is the case so far. I am pleased, however, that we continue to record the increased interest of the working bodies in documents marked DEU. During the reporting period, the Committee on European Affairs considered a total of 32 documents with the DEU code and reached as many conclusions on positions as possible. Of the 32 documents marked DEU, 27 of them were related to the 2020 Work Programme and 5 to the 2021 Work Programme. During the same period, the Committee addressed the home working bodies to consider 15 views of the Republic of Croatia on EU documents from the Work Programme for the past year. Job positions that were not discussed by the end of last year continue in this year. Moreover, from the beginning of 2020 until today, we have referred to the procedure another 26 documents with the DEU code following the Work Programme for the past year. The year code in DEU documents therefore depends not on the year in which the document is referred, but on the work programme in which the document is contained. During the reporting period, the Committee received a total of 33 views from the Government of the Republic of Croatia for meetings of the Council of the European Union held in 2020 and for Council meetings held during the last year a total of 84 positions in all 10 formats in which the Council operates. The position of the Committee on Information was forwarded to the home working bodies, and together with the Committee on Foreign Policy, we held two meetings at which the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs informed the meetings of the Foreign Affairs Council. In its 10th meeting, the Committee also introduced the practice of holding discussions on reports from a meeting of the European Council as a parent body. Furthermore, as we have also submitted a previous report on work, the Assembly belongs to a smaller group of national EU Member States participating in the selection of national candidates for EU institutions and bodies. This task, on behalf of the Parliament, is being carried out by the European Affairs Committee, which discussed and supported the EU court's candidacy for judge and independent lawyer in February 2021. For the quality work of the EU Affairs Committee, cooperation with other working bodies in the Croatian Assembly is particularly important not only when the work programme is adopted, but especially when it comes to working on the positions themselves, and as we have already pointed out. Given that European businesses involve a wide range of topics and a large number of different EU policies, opinions from different working bodies specialising in individual topics are essential for quality work in attitudes. During the reporting period, the parent working bodies adopted a total of 72 opinions on Croatian positions, on proposals for EU legislative acts, which is indeed a significant increase compared to 2019 when we received 23 opinions from the parent bodies. Also, our COSAC Committee, the Conference of the Committee on EU Affairs, the Parliaments of the EU's national parliaments, and the Committee's delegations took part in all meetings of the so-called meeting. COSAC in short form held during the reporting period. COSAK meets four times a year, twice in each of the presidential states. Once in the form of a meeting of the board presidents, and once in a plenary meeting. In addition to this multilateral format, the Committee was active in bilateral activities as much as the epidemiological circumstances allowed. It's final. The work of the EU Committee depends primarily on events at European level and on the dynamics of decision-making on EU institutions. As a rule, we are separated from the work of the plenary session, so we are also submitting to the Labour Reports Assembly to bring our work closer to the MPs. On the other hand, as president of the Committee, I would like to strengthen the role of the Committee on European Affairs as an interested working body in the individual documents discussed at the meeting of the Assembly which are of key importance for the Republic of Croatia. I also received all EU Member States' ambassadors based in Zagreb, as well as ambassadors from many partner countries during the period in question. I have put particular emphasis on working with countries that we consider partners of the EU, especially countries in our immediate environment, which are still at our disposal to co-operate in the euro integration process. In the context of the current developments in Eastern Europe, I hope that soon we will have opportunities to discuss the requirements for EU membership primarily in Ukraine, but also in the Committee and Georgia. With a colleague of the Presidency of the European Integration Committee of the Georgian Parliament, we are also negotiating a visit to the Parliament's delegation, I hope as soon as possible, and next week I am looking forward to having the delegation of the European Affairs Committee of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. In the following year, we will also focus on meeting Croatia's strategic objectives within the EU, membership in the euro zone and the Schengen process. Let me thank all the members and members of the board, my vice-presidents, as special and professional service of the Croatian Parliament, at the very end. Our committee led by Mrs. Jelena Špiljak at the support of the work, and I would particularly like to point out my predecessors, the presidents of the Committee on European Affairs of Mr. Daniel Mondekar, Gordan Jandroković and Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, who have also paved the way for our work today and which is growing year after year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100421	Mr. Pavic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100422	Your Honor, you have given us a report on the work of your committee, which is really detailed, extensive, which actually shows how much activity there has been and that various activities not only in the Assembly but also outside Croatia. I have a few questions, or two questions. Tell me if this paper that was described in your report is the work of all board members or just groups of enthusiasts since it is one of the most numerous committees in the House, there are 24, 23 of you if I am not mistaken in all of the committee. It means whether it's the work of all of you or just a few of you. That's the first question. And the second question you said was that cooperation between other working bodies and your committee was extremely important. Do you have problems with other working bodies and with which bodies and what are these problems if they exist?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100423	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100424	Thank you very much, colleague Pavić. In order to work, of course, we must have a quorum, so that most MPs must always be present at the session. I wish everyone was as involved in the work of the board as possible, but because of the various obligations and because of the lack of personal priorities, not everyone participates equally in the work of the board, they participate in such a manner in accordance with the possibilities. But it's very easy from our record that are also publicly allowing us to read out who was at how many sessions. As for other working bodies, some of the committees participate more, some less. Some are more interested, some are less, but what I am glad to see is that we are calling for a call to follow the Committee's increased interest, that more and more committees are discussing and bringing opinions on issues of concern, topics discussed at the EU Council because European affairs are not foreign affairs. These are our internal affairs and it needs to be regained.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100425	Thank you. And the number of working bodies of course there are too many. Mrs. Petyr, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100426	I would like to ask you as president of the Committee on European Affairs if you can agree with some of the inscriptions we have been witnessing, perhaps even for the last two years, but especially after the last elections for the European Parliament, that Euroscepticism is growing in Croatia. By 2019, it is more difficult that we had in the European Parliament one representative, or representative who was a Eurosceptic, and that we now have three representatives who are Eurosceptics after the last elections, that the research shows that the euro is not so much a favorite currency for Croatian citizens, and often here in the Croatian Parliament we can hear individual representatives who say so we do not have to carry everything. What Europe is telling us, so it doesn't matter that we're an EU member as if we're not sitting at that table and we don't have any influence, and as if these laws didn't come from some of our intermediations. How do you interpret that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100427	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100428	Thank you very much, so colleagues of growth in Euroscepticism which is unequivocal or perhaps a question of the Union I interpret first and foremost with uninformed and uneducated actually may be spreading to the public, and then some colleagues and colleagues sitting here in how the EU works and how decisions are made. So one thing is that citizens may have expected more in terms of European funds, but here we are to blame ourselves before we have been able to make the most of these funds. And the other thing is, as you say well, we have a direct impact on European policies both from the Croatian Parliament and from the government, we need to start using them. By the fact that there are two types of European legislation. One is directly applicable to the law, so there is not much change in the moment it was passed, and the other are acts that we can adapt to our needs, but the following main ideas behind this document. So we also have at that level the possibility of influence.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100429	Mr. Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100430	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for your report, Mr. President of the European Affairs Committee. My question is, in fact, on the trail of what my colleague Petyr asked and your answer to her question. You said that one of the reasons why Croatia may not understand the position of Croatia in the EU or at all what European businesses are or what the EU is and where the fact is that, you have attributed this to the lack of education on the one hand, etc., whether you think our committee can also play a role in changing that. Your predecessor Domagoj Ivan Milosevic had some initiatives that went towards the public in terms of the public stands, etc., do you think we could continue some of these traditions or come up with some new ones as a committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100431	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100432	Thank you, fellow Glavasevic, for the lack of understanding and ignorance, but let's say civic education would be one of the answers to that question. It's on one side. On the other hand, of course, we as MPs, and then as a committee, we should have that enlightening note, say so. And that we also need the political public above all else, and then we need to inform more widely about our work and what the EU is. Sam's proof of the replicas that were so far, there's still no way I know how to change them, maybe change the course, but when I compare them to the last report, it shows you that many MPs and MPs have actually figured out what the board is doing and that there are no more misunderstandings about it. As for the stands and similar events absolutely yes, some of us are going to continue, unfortunately because of the pandemic we couldn't do everything, but let's say the Days of the European Funds in the Croatian Parliament that we organised together with the Committee on European Funds or the debate on the report of the rule of law belongs to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100433	Mrs. Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100434	Therefore, we do not have much information about what is happening in our EU, but as far as the Committee itself is concerned, it is evident that the views held by the Government on the European Council have often not passed the previous committee and are only later delivered to the same committee. How do you plan to get to that bad practice with the first way to solve real information to the public and how to help the daily information emissions actually contain information from the EU? Do you have the opportunity to influence the board and also the government to make sure that through the media it informs you as well?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100435	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100436	Thank you very much. Here, each of us can contribute to this by visiting in the media, and we can also contribute to European topics on a daily basis. As regards the debate of the report and when it comes to order, so as far as the EU Council is concerned, because of the deadlines and dynamics that meetings are being prepared, sometimes the agenda is almost ad hoc, it is very rarely possible to discuss them in advance, technically clean. It's on one side. On the other hand, while there is a applicable law which is in force like this and we have to work in some way because there are different models of control of the government's work in European bodies, we are some hybrid amongst the fact that the government cannot leave without a stand to the fact that the government is completely independent of the Croatian Parliament in European affairs. So we can think after a certain time of practice, maybe it's already matured time for that, about changing the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100437	Mrs. Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100438	Thank you. Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, therefore, recently held a new session of the EU's future conference involving randomly elected citizens from all EU member states. At that time, citizens sent certain messages to politicians or made certain demands. Among other things, one of these requirements was the establishment of a new European military alliance. What is your position on this proposal, and do you perhaps have information on whether this proposal has been discussed on any of our official bodies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100439	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100440	So I don't know what you mean by our official bodies, if you mean the board we've already discussed some military formations that exist within the EU. When such points are placed on the agenda, we will discuss it as a committee for sure. As for my personal position, I think the security situation requires simply strengthening our alliance. In what way and how security primarily means not only military but also intelligence, military, but only intelligence and security cooperation as well. That's what we're going to discuss when some things come up on the agenda, let's just say that. We're not a setter agenda here, it's the EU. As for the conference on the future of Europe, commissions, councils and parliament have pledged to translate the recommendations and conferences into actions, and recommendations are among other things on foreign policy, defence policy and we will see how this will be done. In any case, as these topics come to the agenda of the European Union, they will come to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100441	And Mrs. Posavec the Guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100442	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Hajdukovic, as chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, I will ask you more or less what everyone here has asked you because it is obvious that in the hall together with you we are the other members of the former convocation or this Committee on European Affairs. So, with some certainty, I can say that we all here know more about European affairs than average citizens or people who follow us through television screens or who are following our debates. It is often difficult for people to understand that European affairs are no longer foreign but domestic affairs of Croatia as members of the European Union. When we followed the media and we followed all those events, we were often caught up with how little people knew about the European Union, about institutions. But I remained very little aware of the Conference on the Future of the Europeans, which we have often discussed and in which you have worked very hard to make sure that people know. Can you tell me if the debate has disappointed you or are you satisfied with what she has won?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100443	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100444	Thank you very much. So speaking of the Conference on the Future of Europe, we all had very high expectations. This is one unprecedented project when the European Union's first leadership asked its citizens what they expected and wanted from the Union, in which they want the Union to develop. The conceptal part and because of the pandemic, but also partly because of procedural and organisational problems, unfortunately, it did not come to life in the form I had hoped for, so that it would indeed be some forum where citizens would be able to present their opinions, that it would be a kind of vox population only at European level. Part of it was to get along. However, this is a new project of pioneering and I would estimate that if more language and digital platforms remain to be said in pure Croatian in an amanet or legacy of this conference that we have already done a lot because citizens will have direct open communication constantly with the bodies of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100445	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's the Club of Representatives of the Mosta and Mr. Zvonimir Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100446	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues and respected peoples. As a member of the Committee on European Affairs, I would like to commend the Committee's work, above all the Committee's president on its systematicity and zeal, as shown in the report itself and in the vast amount of ambassadors who came to the Croatian Parliament or who went to the talks with them, so that I would not want to focus so much on the report itself, but rather on the three topics that are important for European affairs and to send certain messages in terms of relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Eurozone and a specific proposal from the Energy Club. The perspective of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina can be described through the prism of the current policies of the Government of the Republic of Croatia along with the policy of certain senior officials of Croatia in the EU foreign policy and the policy of the Bosniak side through the famous saying of Ivo Andric: "False in one great hope is no shame. The very fact that such a hope could exist is worth so much that it is not too expensive to pay by one disappointment, however hard it may be." The fraud Mr. Andric speaks of in this political context is a pseudo-civil story or a pseudo-civil concept used as a cover for the majority nationalism, namely the domination of the nationalism of a more numerous people. The paradox is that such a policy is represented as something beyond national or as some international actors misrepresent ethnic divisions. But there are no three ethnic groups in Bosnia and Herzegovina. These are three peoples, three nations and are defined as constituent nations and in the Constitution. The first disappointment described by Ivo Andric is the political will of the Bosniak side that does not exist, because chief political actor Baker Izetbegovic himself denied the identity of Croats and Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina by saying that all people in Bosnia and Herzegovina are actually descendants, a quote: "good Bosniaks, or bohemians, which are only recently shared on a religious and national basis". Izetbegovic recently said on the stands in German Mainz that medieval Bosnia was separate and special, as was its population, both Orthodox and Catholic, but not Croatian and Serbian. But Izetbegovic screwed up. History has shown and proved that the formation of a modern national consciousness that occurs in the 19th century runs parallelly with Croats in Croatia and Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is interesting that Izetbegovic said such nonsense 130 years after the Austrian governor Benjamin Kalaj, who tried to implement such a concept in Bosnia and Herzegovina and failed, and that in the meantime, the entire 20th century happened with two world wars and with the work of the 90s that further strengthened those entities. The second disappointment presented by Ivo Andric is found in the minds and rhetoric of certain political actors in Croatia, including today's MPs in the Assembly who despite historical facts even their roots that originate in Bosnia and Herzegovina continue to support this pseudo-civil and historically unfounded concept. And the third disappointment is the German foreign policy, which thinks that by decree, it can end the constitutionality of the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and thus irresponsibly undermine the foundations of a fragile peace agreement that functions as a state constitution. This policy must be said criminally and it should be said clearly and loudly to our great friends whether it is about Germany from whose foreign policies come crazy ideas about abolishing the constitutionality of the people, or whether it is about our high-ranking officials who our diplomacy has pushed into the top of the Council of Europe to get answers that come from the office of Bakir Izetbegovic or Željko Komsic. The top of Bosniak politics obviously estimates that time is working for them and it is now certain that all three peoples, or that all three described Andric's disappointment, will be shed into the formation of authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina without legitimate representatives of Croats. And what is hope and where is it hiding in Andric's statement? We started with Andric and with his famous quote we will end up with "until there is darkness and dawn". In this darkness, Komsic, Izetbegovic, parliamentary representatives who advocate the pseudo-civil concept, senior Croatian diplomats and German foreign policy, will be matured by some new legitimate and real representatives of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, both in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Europe and in the world. As far as energy is concerned, Croatia also decided in its 2050 hydrogen strategy for interstate access to the strategic carbon valley they would be building together with Croatia, Italy and Slovenia. We already share Krško nuclear power plant with Slovenia. And since our board president met with the Ambassador of the Italian Republic of Francesca Sak or the Spanish Kingdom with Mr. Alonso... We have a proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government of the Republic of Croatia may, through this committee, create a common natural gas supply platform with the Kingdom of Spain and Italy. The Kingdom of Spain has already asked several times for gas bargaining at EU level, but the European Commission does not yet have a single view of the joint supply of gas, given that individual members are personally calculating the amount of prices from private and personal sovereign energy interests. In some ways, a strategic point of supply of LNG gas should be made to supply Europe as a whole on the southern side of the continent. The Republic of Italy is getting its gas from three supply routes, earlier from Russia and still from Algeria and Qatar. They also have LNG which is an excellent common link and a prerequisite for strategic problem-solving. This is not a harmless strategy for the reason that northern Europe has a very concept and is planning something called a new Europe in official strategic terminology. And what is this new Europe that Jurgen Randers describes in his 2052th global forecast for the next 40 years. The new Europe term marks strategic thinking that marks a new balance of power that will move to northern Europe in 40 years. The strategy is expected to bring up the Scandinavian countries of Germany, the Benelux countries and the Baltic countries. Also according to Professor Katharine Cameron's writing... at the University of Oxford, Scotland will completely secede at one point from the United Kingdom and join a new group called New Europe, which will try to establish, according to forecasts, after the reset of the EU, which according to their visions described in the book are expected in the second half of the 20th century. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then why is it important to discuss this platform? According to the results of Professor Randers and Professor Camerun, the southern state such as Spain, Portugal, Greece, Italy and the states in the Balkans will suffer from a rise in temperature, water shortages leading to food shortages, poor health and unrest. Population movements will follow, including immigrants from North Africa. The strategic solution of these two professors, and thus all of their students who learned at the universities in Oslo and Oxford, is a two-stage system for Europe that would be implemented by 2052. On the one hand, the new Europe, i.e. the northern states and Europe of the two southern states that make up a preferential trade agreement, share nothing more than the previous structures of the EU or the status of the countries and which share a border that is heavily protected in order to prevent further migration of the population. However, regardless of whether their strategy will be achieved, it should be taken into account that perhaps the northerners are heading towards the EU's division. And whether or not they go would be smart and strategic and wise to prepare energy, economic, ecological and military for that period. The initiative with the Kingdom of Spain and the Republic of Italy may be a proposal for that first step. As for the euro, the president of the Committee on European Affairs himself made an excellent observation that the CNB was not present at the presentation of the Euro Law. We talked about the CNB enough, however, the main conclusion of the club MOST: The Croatian economy is not ready and we do not see an economic goal or strategy of the Croatian government. No serious structural reform has been made, we are not withdrawing timely EU funding, we are not protecting our agricultural land, and in the government's mandate we are losing ten Peljeka bridges on agriculture. This government of the Republic of Croatia, along with this criminal leadership of the CNB, may allow entry into the euro zone, that after each new recession in the near future, the only thing we will have of economic policies is the reduction of salaries and layoff of workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100447	Time. Thank you. Mrs. Ivana Posavec Krivec in front of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100448	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The Social Democrats Club will support this report on the work of the European Affairs Committee for the period from 22 July 2020 to 15 December 2021 for several reasons. I'll try to sum up some of those reasons here. First of all, we at the Social Democrats Club are aware that European jobs are extremely important for the overall policy of the Republic of Croatia. As a member of the EU through European affairs, we are in fact realising all those policies that are extremely important to us, which are important to our citizens. Perhaps not all citizens have fully conscious yet, but what was once an external policy today has become, not today but almost 9 years ago, become the internal policy of the Republic of Croatia by becoming a full member of the European Union. Everything we should have done and how many sacrifices we should have suffered in order to join exactly the countries and Member States of the European Union is now clearly returning to us. There are many things that Croatia has used not only the European Union's funds, but the civilizational assets that come with membership in the European Union. It is extremely important here to stress that we, as the youngest member of the European Union, must have full political power, when I speak here I mean full political status that our thinking and our views should be respected and as far as I can see from the work of the Committee on European Affairs but also from the segment concerning European policy in the Republic of Croatia, I think we can be satisfied. I also think that we should work further on education and everything that our colleagues and colleagues have said here in order to show and show how important these topics are, to show what the directives mean and what the recommendations of the European Union mean, which means the positions with which Croatia is going to meetings of the European Union, but which means those positions that we are obliged to enter into the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. As the Committee President himself has said, we have room here to use everything that is in the European Union's legislation the best thing that can help us be better, what can help us to equalize ourselves with countries that are ahead of us and catch a step with them. These are in any case, and here it is important to highlight the cohesion funds that we will easily come up with if we are to carry out all those reforms stemming from a regulated state, and around these reforms we are also reaching through regulated legislation and the transposition of all that is in force in the European Union. In view of this, I am pleased as a representative who has had the opportunity to be a member of the Committee on European Affairs for a certain period, precisely during the period we are discussing here through this Report that at the meetings of the Committee, there is an atmosphere of tolerance, the atmosphere of dialogue, the atmosphere of mutual respect, the atmosphere that does not lead to politics, but most often common attitudes, debates that lead to quality solutions and I will say better solutions for the Republic of Croatia. I always like it when at the meetings of the Committee on European Affairs we are actually discussing the measure of things when we go deep enough because on the other hand we have experts who can respond to all the dilemmas and who can fully introduce us to what certain views or directives bring us in the future of Croatia. I am also pleased that the president of the Committee has made an excellent co-operation with other parliaments, that we have a very good interparliamentary cooperation regarding the Committee itself, but also that he is extremely respected by ambassadors accredited in the Republic of Croatia or the Ambassador of the European Union. I'm not saying that for no reason. I think it is extremely important for Croatia that people who are dealing with precisely European external and other affairs have the status to see that they understand what they are doing and that they are actually hearty about it. Likewise, at the Social Democrats Club, we rejoice that very rarely on the Committees on European Affairs when it comes to the interest of the Republic of Croatia, and in most cases we do not share in ideological principles on rulings and opposition. In fact, we always have very high-quality discussions and, as I pointed out, respect. We would argue that the visibility of the work of the Committee on European Affairs to become greater, to be of greater interest to other representatives who are not members of the Committee on European Affairs, that before these views of the European Union or the points of view of Croatia become relevant to informing them and that they actually know what follows us in our legal procedure. It often happens that the European Union has defined something that Croatia must do and that although we have seen it in Croatia, it would be better to wait a moment for the European Union to push us to do so. So there is this advantage that we are once put into a situation to make ourselves better, to be more agile, to try to make our citizens' lives as close as possible to the lives of the citizens of other European Union countries. Furthermore, the topics that await us are extremely important. These are topics as mentioned here about Croatian membership in the euro zone, about the Schengen area these are very sensitive issues, but also a question that has been raised by Croatia at European level by the issue of the European future of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But not only Bosnia and Herzegovina, but the question of the future of Southeast Europe as a segment of enlargement of membership in the European Union. I believe that as a neighbouring country, as a country that has the longest land border of the European Union, we should really have strong and clear views and attitudes, if we know them well, will be respected by the other members of the European Union. So what we would like and what we would like to advocate is the tendency to be really a partner with whom we are best addressed, which is actually our close neighborhood, indeed, the European Union listens to our views that we have respect and that we are truly a partner who is fully trusted who is equal in this format. I think we're on our way. I think that road has just been woven into everything the president of the Committee here said was one sequence. It is also good practice that the Committee is now a member of the opposition. So as president of the Committee, as we once had, who will remember when we also had the process of joining the Croatian European Union, I think it is also very good for parliamentaryism in Croatia, but also for parliamentaryism at European level. So the Committee on European Affairs is not only one of the most active committees in the Croatian Parliament, the most agile committees, because it has to react quickly and urgently, it must sometimes meet in at hockey situations. But it is a committee that is often proposed, it is a committee that initiates, it is a committee in which, apart from multilaterally, a lot of issues are addressed on a bilateral basis, and that is how our position in the European Union is actually strengthened. I think it is necessary to say responsibly that all the members of the Committee contribute to this, depending on their time and opportunity, but that we are sending a clear picture of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian state which, for its strategic objectives, once appointed by the external, now and internal policy, a firm definition of membership in the European Union as an important subject. As I said at the very beginning, we are proud of everything this Committee has done, but I must say we are proud that our prominent member, who has shown that he truly understands European politics, but also that he is respected by other entities, primarily by the diplomatic assembly not only in the Republic of Croatia but also by other members of the European Union. So we support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100449	Mrs. Ruzica Vukovac will represent the views of the Justice Club of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100450	I am now part of the team that represents the Croatian Parliament within the Conference on the Future of Europe. I would like to give you some information on the work of the Conference itself, although the Committee President has spoken of it in his report. So, the Conference on the Future of Europe was launched on 9 May 2021 as a joint venture by the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union and the European Commission and represents a unique and timely opportunity for European citizens and citizens to discuss the challenges and priorities of the European Union. Components of the Conference are primarily a language digital platform, so where citizens can exchange ideas and contribute via the Internet, then decentralised Internet physical and hybrid events in the organisation of individuals. Then, the organisation of national, regional and local bodies, four European panels of citizens and citizens, as well as plenary assemblies, conferences that discuss recommendations from national and European citizens, and contributions collected through a multilingual digital platform. Decisions on the work of the Conference, its processes and events shall be taken by consensus. The work of the plenary assembly is supported by 9 thematic working groups. The conclusions of the very plenary assembly of the Conference published by the Executive Board will be presented at a political event on Europe Day on 9 May 2022. The Executive Board of the Conference should then present, during May 2022, a final report or final outcome of the Conference to the Joint Presidency and three institutions representing it. The three institutions will quickly examine how to effectively follow this report each in its sphere of competence and in accordance with the Treaties. The aim of the Conference is to enable open, inclusive, transparent and structured debates with citizens from different backgrounds from all social backgrounds, as well as with civil society representatives, stakeholders from European national and regional levels, national and regional parliaments, then with the Committee of the Regions, the European Economic and Social Committee, the social partners and the academic community on the development of future policies and ambitions of the European Union, including, therefore, all that is happening in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic and thus contribute to ongoing activities aimed at strengthening the Union's resilience. Interested stakeholders can express their views and views in the context of events and dialogues organised throughout the European Union as well as through an interactive multilingual digital platform. At European level, the institutions of the European Union are obliged to organise European panels of citizens. Each Member State may also organise additional events such as national citizen panels or thematic events in accordance with its national or institutional specificities. National and European events are organised in accordance with the set of principles and minimum criteria reflecting the values of the European Union. The Conference's work reflects areas within the competence of the European Union or areas where the action of the European Union could benefit European citizens by focusing on topics that are truly important to the long-term citizens themselves. Taking into account the European Union's strategic programme for the period 2019 to 2024, the political guidelines of the current European Commission and the challenges caused by the Covid-19 pandemic include, among others, the following topics: building a healthy continent, etc. the health union, the fight against climate change and environmental challenges, economic and social issues in the interests of citizens, social justice, equality and intergenerational solidarity, the digital transformation of Europe, European rights and values including the rule of law, the challenges related to migration, security issues, the role of the European Union in the world, and the democratic foundations of the European Union and the ways in which they can be strengthened, or how to strengthen the democratic processes on which the European Union itself is based. Discussions can also cover cross-cutting issues related to the ability of the European Union to achieve policy priorities such as better regulatory application of subsidiarity and proportionality, and citizens can raise additional issues that they find extremely important. On the one hand, I think it is also important to transfer the results of the research that Eurobarometer has provided today, which concerns the future of Europe itself, so it is about citizens and their views on certain issues, according to a specific Eurobarometer survey on the future of Europe published on 27 January 2022. Even 91% of subjects aged 15 to 24 years. believes that the fight against climate change can contribute to their health and well-being, and even 84% of subjects older than 55 years agree with them. Almost half of Europeans hold 49% of climate change to the main global challenges affecting the future of the EU. The vast majority also support the environmental objectives of the European Green Plan, so 88% of Europeans think it is important to increase the share of renewable energy in the European economy and achieve greater energy efficiency, while even 80% think it is important for Europe to become the first climate neutral continent by 2050 and promote the growth of the zero and low-emission vehicle market. In addition, respondents highlighted health as a challenge for the future of the EU, 34 subjects, and forced migration and migration of about 30% of respondents. They consider a comparable standard of living, 31% of respondents and a common health policy, so 22% will contribute to Europe's future. More solidarity among Member States is considered very important, so 21% and energy independence, 20% of them. The most common answers to the challenge were social inequality, 36% of them, 32% unemployment, environmental protection and climate change 32%, and of course the issue of migration 31%. The EU's top priority is that Europeans consider democracy, human rights and rule of law, 27% followed by the EU's economic, industrial and trade power, 25%. According to respondents, the EU's best embody values compared to other countries are primarily peace, so 50% of them, freedom of opinion 47%, social equality and solidarity 45%, and tolerance and openness to others 44%. The vast majority of Europeans are happy to live in the EU, as many as 81% and 89% in their country, and are satisfied with family life, 89% of them. Around 43% of Europeans said that the main advantage of involving the younger generation in the Conference of the Future of Europe is the debate on issues that are important to them, and other strengths point out both their energy and their motivation for reforms and changes, so 35% of them are respondents and the determination to solve current social issues important to the future of Europe, 33% of respondents, 59% of respondents are willing to participate so that they respond to the survey, and almost every other 46% can imagine that they participate in events in their vicinity. In addition, they are interested in taking part in Internet consultations, 40% of them, presenting ideas and proposals to European and national politicians as much as 39%, and participating in European, cultural and sports events related to the conference, 39%. Generally key conference issues consider climate change and the environment 44%, health 40%, and a stronger economy, social justice and jobs 40%. The conference expects concrete results, and the motivation of most of them, so 53% depends on the real impact of their participation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100451	- Mrs. Crescent. Barbara Antolic Vupra will speak in front of the SDP's Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100452	Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, Your Honor. Under the Law on the Cooperation of Parliaments and Governments in European Affairs, the Parliamentary Committee on European Affairs has almost equal powers. What is the importance of the committee, the impact it should have in the EU member state, is also the fact that the Committee differs from other HS working bodies because it has two vice-presidents, one in the ruling and one in the opposition's order, so other than the mere harmonisation with European legislation, the purpose of the Committee should be to strengthen the influence of the Member State within and outside the EU, but this should have a vision and to set long-term objectives. Therefore, the real question is whether the Committee fulfils its role or only acts on the principle of unnecessarily harmonising domestic legislation with European legislation and always on an urgent basis. Therefore, under the law, the Committee may request a report from the government on the Council of the EU, as well as on preparations for the next meeting. The government is obliged to inform the parliament if it deviates from the Committee's conclusion on the position to be represented in the EU institutions, but the Committee is marginalised and its function is ignored. The Committee allows the prime minister to deliver his views to the European Council only after these positions have already been made, and meetings of the Council have been held. Still most of the government's stance is brought independently without consultation with the assembly or with the Croatian public at all. Ministers and HS are no longer or part-timely reporting meetings of the EU Council at which Croatian interests represented. The number of ministry reports on EU Council meetings at which Croatian positions were represented is constantly falling. Resolute ministers in other European countries such as Estonia, Denmark, Finland, Sweden are also defending positions before specialised parliamentary committees authorised to oversee the government's work in European affairs. It is good that this call for a meeting has introduced a practice of carrying out discussions on reports from a meeting of the European Council as a parent working body, which is certainly a shift. European policy is also our policy. European policy also concerns all our citizens, EU legislation reflects on the lives of us and our citizens. For this reason, we believe that the Committee must ask the institutions to submit the procedures for assessing the impact of the EU work programme rules in order to know in time, as well as to know in time that European legislation will affect or reflect our lives. What a distorted picture of Croatia's role in the EU has shown a number of affairs, for example The arrest of the minister, the poor availability of money from EU funds, 30m euros of direct incentives will be denied to our farmers, it is a punishment for the Ministry of Agriculture, but it is something that unfortunately cannot be affected by the Committee on European Affairs, but it has a negative impact on Croatian citizens daily. As the picture of our role in European policy changes then the Committee will actively contribute to Croatian European policy through its discussions, ideas and strategies, and then we will be able to say that the Committee on European Affairs fully fulfils its role. I am also particularly emphasising the special role of the committee, its leadership, but I am apostrophe of the Mother's Committee of Government and ruling against this committee. Finally, I also stress the need for greater information to the public about what is happening on various EU bodies, we cannot do this to individuals here in HS, it must systematically be done by the government and this committee through the formal channels of information with constant communication, and we must tell them that the HRT cameras must be both in HRT institutions and that we must listen to and see what we as EU citizens actually have to and implement in our laws. Thank you very much. In the end, the SDP Club will support the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100453	Mr. Bojan Glavasevic will speak in front of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100454	... On the subject, I guess I can go to Italian this time. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This committee, as several colleagues and colleagues pointed out slightly different from most boards in HS, has indeed two vice presidents and one from the opposition and one from the ruling and intensities, the intensity of this special status has its basis in the fact that European policy should nominally at least in the idea of its own, should be the result of some consensus on some of the key national interests which, then, on the bodies of some kind of European level, which is the one in the sky or on earth and, as we are also in the replication of the committee president's presentation, is not really something that has become organically understandable in these few years of our membership and something that is understood. I will say here that I believe that, that one part of the cause stems from the fact that, which has generally been a practice once more less that the creation of European policy and European policies has not yet been placed in parliament but has been placed in a frenzy in the executive government. It was not even located on another hill that is important in our constitution for European and foreign policy in Pantovčak, it was wavering across the street from this square in the Banski dvori, and it is not, therefore I think it is generally one of the bad democratic practices in Croatia that, that the focus of legislative all processes, of all decision-making processes, of creating absolutely all policies is actually located in the executive government and then other instances and other political actors at the end of the country puts them in a position to mostly lose their jobs. So although we have a very good board of members and members of this committee, both externally and those who are MPs and MPs in HS so we have very good discussions on a regular basis, even in situations where we are conflicting with opinions that we disagree on, maybe somehow we still manage to get to, to some common ground in the vast majority of cases, we are not always as active as counterpart Posavec Krivec pointed out and as is visible at the end of the president's report, but the fact is also the position of our club advocates and advocates that this is not enough. That's why this little long introduction actually serves to argue that I don't consider it an exclusive guilt on the board because there may be some wishes and expectations and possibilities that this committee has at the end of the day. I would like to make several applications, the views for the European Council are delayed on a regular basis, and I have talked about this many times, and I consider that a very serious problem. Namely, it's a problem for us, it's not a problem for the executive power that creates them after all. They've improved our souls a little bit if we were to say that it's not better in some past periods, but it still doesn't put us as the Committee on European Affairs in the position of co-creator of those positions. On one occasion, State Secretary Metelko Zgombic at one of the sessions when I asked her what she thought about it, I think even the prime minister talked about it in time they said that here through the debates in HS they follow everything and then they get some feedback that probably in theory also affect their views that they will then send us, as they consider it. But it's a black box, so we don't see it, we don't know it, we don't get any kind of phytebec about what of our discussions, which of our views are considered and as incorporated in those positions. That is why we believe that this process should be as institutional as it is intended to be institutional. In this way, in a dialogue that is possible with this committee, which is possible with members and members, I say to both external and external representatives and representatives on the board, so I believe that this would take down a significant piece of burden among other things and from the executive authority. It just requires one level of trust that I'm not sure we're ready for, I mean as democracy. As for some other things, so besides having no interference in creating a position, our maximum is actually reacting to them, and that is, after it's too late. Our committee also, we were our delegation to our committee recently at COSAC in Paris, and they showed us one statistic on how many Member States' parliaments sent opinions on certain topics, on certain legislative initiatives, on how many they were controlled by subsidiarity. Our committee is not among them, our committee is reactive mostly rather than proactive. So, why don't we just do subsidiarity control after all? Why wouldn't our board take advantage of that opportunity among other things? Why don't our board, for example, ask for an impact assessment of the effects of the regulations of each body? It's the same possibility we have, it's the same possibility we have. So, as much as I can absolutely agree with the estimates that our board is generally very active, that it has very interested members and members who think that we have some institutional opportunities that we could use and I think it would be really to the benefit of Croatia if we did. There is also a question of, say, controlling the harmonisation of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia with the EU, something that also, I think we are doing nominally, but we are not doing it through a common process which is then visible and that we can also report this point in HS. In the end, I'd look back on maybe a few things from earlier discussions, some of which I'll leave for my individual discussion. First of all, there is the question of the Conference on the Future of Europe. I think that is also the general attitude that we have mentioned, it is a notorious fact that our citizens and citizens still do not feel the EU as they say we or ours do not have the impression that this goes beyond the border of the Republic of Croatia, and that is not the case. One of the reasons for this is the historical trend in the antagonising of Brussels, namely the antagonising of policies, politicians and politicians elected in office in the EU, whether it is about MPs and MPs, whether it is about the European Commission at the end and the European Council that decisions are always made elsewhere. So it is ironic that some of the main culprits for this type of rhetoric actually played a role in leading Croatia into the EU, and what their position is essentially very limited, I would say pro-European, it's kind of, they might have articulated it as some kind of sovereignty, but using something we built into our legal system, something we accepted, antagonistizing it, and using it as a political lever to justify some unpopular decisions is simply not a good practice, and it will be pounced on our heads. So, the Conference on the Future of Europe is one place where we need to work more and we think that our committee in this process can play as much more active a role than it has so far. I also think that with the pandemic measures we can return and reconsider some of the practices that we had before the pandemic, and in particular I say in the context of the conference on the future of Europe. I'm going to talk a little more about some things during my individual debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100455	Next is a debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Marijana Balic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100456	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the Honorable President of the Committee on European Affairs, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So it is before us today as we heard from the opening presentation of the report on the work of the Committee on European Affairs for the period from 22 July 2020 to 15 December 2021, whose work was certainly marked by the extraordinary circumstances caused above all by the largest pandemic in the last 100 years, the Covid-19 pandemic, but also by the earthquakes that hit Zagreb in March 2020. And Banovina in December the same year. It is a report submitted by the Committee in accordance with the obligations of the Article. 65. The Rules of Procedure of the HS and the sixth report submitted by this High House since the establishment of the European Affairs Committee in July 2013. As a rule, as we have heard and heard from the Committee on European Affairs, once a year, a report on the work that coincides with the calendar year, with exceptions for certain periods such as today, which is before us for the reason that the constitution of the 10th calls on HS and the selection of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on European Affairs of 22 July 2020. The report is very comprehensive, detailed, and quality-prepared, separate chapters are dedicated to the participation of the committee in the European decision-making process, cooperation with other bodies, labour bodies, and cooperation with representatives in the European Parliament selected in the Republic of Croatia, cooperation with the European Commission, and information on EU documents delivered directly, as well as on harmonisation of legislation, interparliamentary cooperation, and activities and organisation of the work of the expert service committee. A total of 28 sessions were held during the relevant period of the European Affairs Committee, of which 3 were thematic, within which we have already heard EU Funds Day, and related to the following topics, the presentation of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2021 to 2027, the programming of EU funds, the implementation of the security policy, and the strategic plan of the common agricultural policy in the Republic of Croatia and the operational programme for fisheries and aquaculture, which are all very important topics. It should also be noted that the Committee held its session on 9 December 2021. symbolically marked for us a historicly important date, the signing of the Treaty of Accession of the EU's Republic of Croatia on the 10th, 10th anniversary. It is also necessary to mention the participation of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on European Affairs in a number of interparliamentary, bilateral and multilateral activities in the framework of interparliamentary cooperation which, despite significant constraints, have been intensively intensified during the period in question. The Committee on European Affairs also continuously monitors the process of bringing national legislation into line with the EU acquis, since the Republic of Croatia as an EU Member State has an obligation to take on legal property into Croatian legislation. That's the plan for 2021. containing a total of 56 legislative measures to be taken, EU rules. During the reporting period, the Assembly also harmonised legislation for 2020. the plan covered 62 legislative measures. In total, during the 10th session, 127 legislative proposals were submitted to the Assembly procedure, of which 63 were adopted, 50 were accepted in the first reading, and 14 were still in the procedure with the completion of the reporting period, and their work continued in this year and 2022, respectively. At EU level, the reporting period was marked with the fight against the economic, political and social consequences of the covid-19 pandemic and the beginning of the work of the Conference on the Future of Europe whose importance in the context of EU recovery has become even more relevant since the covid-19 crisis, all with the aim of launching a broad and open debate on the future of the EU. The conference, as we had already had the opportunity to hear, was launched on Europe Day on 9 May last year and its completion was planned for this year as well on Europe Day. It should further bring the EU closer to its citizens, as well as contribute to the development of a common future, or contribute to the construction of a modern vision of a more sustainable and more solid Europe. When it comes to co-operation with EU institutions and bodies, the following should be pointed out. Compared to previous years, due to epidemiological reasons in the reporting period, significantly decreased frequency meetings with representatives of the European Commission. However, despite the restrictions, a video conference was held with the Commissioner of the European Commission for Justice, which discussed the first European Commission report on the rule of law for 2020. and a corresponding chapter for the Republic of Croatia, as well as continued and co-operation with the Vice-President of the European Commission for Democracy and Demography, Deep Shuic. Members of the European Parliament elected to the Republic of Croatia were mainly invited to participate in the videoconferencing session during this period and during 2021. It also held a video conference with the European Parliament's first vice-president in charge of relations with national parliaments, and now the European Parliament's president. Robert Metsol. Member of the European Court of Auditors of the Republic of Croatia Ivana Maletic was also at the end of last year, more specifically on 4 November 2021. present the annual report of the European Court of Auditors for 2020. The Conference of the Committee on Union Affairs of the EU's Parliaments or a shorter COSAC, as we have heard, is an important platform of meetings and exchanges of views and its work The delegation of the Committee on European Affairs is taking part in all meetings. However, due to already known restrictions or epidemiological situations, all COSAC meetings during the reporting period were held via videoconferencing. The last meeting held in the traditional format was held as part of the parliamentary dimension of the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council in early 2020. in Zagreb. When it comes to considering the report on the meetings of the EU Council and the reporting of meetings. It should be pointed out as the Government of the Republic of Croatia regularly delivers views of the Republic of Croatia for meetings of the Council of the EU. Here, of course, it should be reminded that the current government has introduced a practice of more frequent reporting of meetings on European activities and practices in order to analyse and comment most importantly, all in order to better inform representatives and Croatian citizens, or in order to sensitise the Croatian public on European topics which are certainly in their fullness and Croatian topic. While the 10th meeting of the Committee has introduced a practice of carrying out a report on reports from a meeting of the European Council in the capacity of the home working body and before discussions on reports held at meetings of the Assembly. It is therefore important that the Croatian public feel or should be more clearly perceived and perceived the advantages that EU membership brings to them in their daily life. The topics of particular interest for Croatia are certainly preparations for entering the Schengen area and the euro area, the continuation of the enlargement policy and the situation in the Eastern Europe region. We can say that in 2021, in political terms from Croatia's perspective towards the EU, it is important in the context of meeting the set frameworks and criteria for Schengen and the euro area. And I believe that during this year, Croatia will make a decision on Croatia's membership in the Schengen area, and that Croatia will achieve its two strategic objectives. Finally, I would like to commend once again the report of the Committee on European Affairs, as well as the expert service of the Committee, but so is all the efforts made by the Committee on European Affairs in the framework of its work cycle during the reporting period. The following Club of Representatives of the HDZ will support the report on the work of the European Committee on European Affairs for the period in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100457	Following individual debates, Mariana Petir is the first respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100458	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear President of the Committee on European Affairs, MPs and MPs, I think that now that we are discussing the report of the Committee on European Affairs, reminding ourselves of some political facts, which is that Croatia is a full member of the EU, that we have done so very hard with great effort, long-term processes and sometimes putting burdens on our backs for which we have not actually been responsible, so that this debate may also be an opportunity to thank all those who participated in these long-term processes and negotiations on the work they have done. From our perspective today, of course, it's easy to be a general after the battle and maybe comment on us would have done it differently or better or maybe it shouldn't have been quite so. But the fact is that it was a very big venture that we can all agree on together, no matter what political option we belong to, it is successfully completed. But it is also a process that continues to take place because the moment we became a member of the EU we did not actually complete the process but we have just begun to actively participate and participate in making decisions for, which are important for the future of Croatia and the Croatian people. And this is also an opportunity for us to use this influence in the best possible way to position our interests, protect them but address the problems of course they always have. I think that in the regulation of issues that are important to us and that are bothering us, we should not always call on the EU if those issues have not been regulated or concrete if we find that there is a space for legal solutions that could help to settle individual issues in Croatia, regardless of which EU has not regulated these issues, I think we need to reach out to legal instruments because it is our job. For example, I recently appealed for a legal deadline for the meat to be frozen because we discovered on our market real dinosaur meat, which is 7 years old. I think it is not good for our citizens as it is not good for the citizens of the EU, and such meat has obviously come from somewhere across the border in Croatia. The answer I received was that the EU did not prescribe it in its acts, so that's how we're going to prescribe it. So we will prescribe if we want to prescribe as we can and what is fresh meat to avoid the fraud that is happening, and there are many such frauds and damages to our farmers, but also to our consumers. That is why I would like to be realistic here, not that we often use the EU as an excuse if we may not have found the best model for a particular problem or if we do not have to deal with something. So I think we should just start dealing with what are real problems and solve them. What I am somehow having is at least that I get the impression sometimes in the parliamentary debates here that there is one current in the assembly that may even be unconsciously promoting Euroscepticism, which is obviously taking up the last time of the wave, and that we have witnessed in the last European elections where even three Eurospeakers who have been declared Eurosceptics have chosen and it seems to me that this is somehow a message that we should perhaps consider in which way the Committee on European Affairs may also contribute to clarifying some policies, in explaining our powers, our roles, our contribution, our influence, because I think we have done a lot. What goes under the radar is a big job that's been done around entering Schengen and entering the Eurozone. It was not easy to convince other Member States, despite meeting the criteria that this door should indeed be open for us. There is a lot of effort and congratulations to all those who have worked in this work, and I also appeal to the fact that there is a way to hear what MPs say especially to the members of the Committee on European Affairs where we would like our role in the processes when we speak It's still a little bigger on the points of view. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100459	Replica, the first respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100460	Thank you very much. Comrade Petyr, you're absolutely right. Our European path was one of the few really consensual things that we managed to reach from beginning to end, but as you said, in fact, this road did not end our entry into the EU, it has just begun. What I would like to raise awareness with this debate is, above all, among MPs and MPs, that everyone can address the European Commission with a question, a proposal, an opinion and a working body and a club of representatives, as well as each of us as a representative. Therefore, we can directly communicate with the Commission, directly propose, directly ask, deliver opinions directly, and we must not use Brussels as an excuse why something cannot be used. It could be, just maybe a different way, and it might take us a little longer to get there because we need to sit at a table with 20 more EU members, but it can. Anything can be done because the EU is our house, as is Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100461	You are absolutely right because the instrument of political dialogue serves as well as representatives of individual and citizens, but parent working bodies can communicate directly with the European Commission, ask for specific clarifications and make their proposals. I must say that I, as president of the Committee on Agriculture, use this right for my committee, and we have had such a political dialogue with the European Commission on several occasions on topics that we thought it was important to react to before certain conclusions are made, or by the model of iron, while it is hot, so in the process of forming a common agricultural policy, we have opened this political dialogue in the preparation of the National Strategic Plan in order to hear the recommendations of the European Commission and how they are heard by all those who need to hear them and respected them, but also by the Strategy From Field to Table and all other documents that we think are important.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100462	Next replica, respected Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100463	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think it is very interesting that you have asked the question, in fact, as a replica of the opening of Mr Hajdukovic and now in your debate on Euroscepticism and on representatives in the European Parliament who are Eurosceptics. Somehow, if we look at these last European elections, they actually seem awfully far away, although they are not that far away, but as if the political moment throughout Europe was quite different. Do you think it was in some way accidental at that time or do you see any deeper links to the current political trends in Croatia, or do you think, for example. Although it is ungrateful to do this projection, for example. that today's European elections would be the same result, either better or worse, in terms of Euroscepticism on the one hand and some kind of pro-European attitude on the other? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100464	Thank you very much, dear colleague Glavasevic. Well, it's hard of course to be a prophet, but I think that these elections today would look very different, not only because of the crown of the crisis that we have had on the geopolitical plan, but because just some of these representatives I don't want to name right now, but we all know who they're dealing with has shown that they have won these mandates and that they have done nothing useful for Croatia, although they have in some way put Croatia on a pillar of shame that I don't think Croatia deserves or is the role of a Euro-representor. All who have been elected to such high duties should try to formulate legislation and influence the Croatian people's better lives, not to use it for some purposes that are truly inappropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100465	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100466	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, as I announced in the debate on behalf of the club, I think there were a few more moments during this debate that was worth looking at, and my colleague Balic also spoke on behalf of the club about the content of the topics we were dealing with, in a way and I think that's very important. In his debate, colleague Troscott, who unfortunately did not have, he had to go, touched on BiH, and although this is not the point now, and it is not really a format, we as a committee did deal with this issue a lot and not only on the Committee on European Affairs but we also dealt with this issue on the Committee on Foreign Policy. One of what we have put emphasis on through the board and on the last COSAC, for example, on the countries of the Western Balkans, and I think most of all this applies to BiH as much as this situation is more comparatively complicated than some other countries that are candidates in that part of our neighbourhood. We have insisted and continued to insist, and in this we are truly unanimous in keeping our promises to the countries in our neighbourhood and that the European path of these countries must not be questioned at any time. And actually on that last COSAC we've had problems with it right through the prism of this let me be a metaphor of a santo subito approach for Ukraine in the context of enlargement. So, the countries of the Western Balkans when they look, I think it's an incomparable situation, it's extremely difficult, it's absolutely necessary to open up the accession process for Ukraine, etc., but there were those on that COSAC who advocated that, as it is now, Ukraine join the EU and as it is. We are all, in fact, our representatives and representatives who participated in this debate noted that the minimum of one point is problematic, I think from several of them, but the minimum of one when we talk about us from Croatia and our neighbourhood and that there are countries here that have made significant progress that are in a much better position than Ukraine in the context of compliance with the EU acquis that have been blocked and which may not be formally blocked as Macedonia, which we have, at the same time, specifically apostropheed, but simply informally, there is no progress in the negotiations. And that the EU is thus losing credibility. That's what we as a committee always insist on, and that's something that there's a consensus on, I'd say quite broadly on our committee. In his debate, Troscott actually touched on something, one of the issues that can be better discussed on the Committee on Foreign Policy, so I think it may not be, that we have discussed here many times, but it should be said that, from our perspective, the problem of elections happened because of nationalist policies and there is no one in the Croatian Parliament who has not warned that it could not be discussed under the cover of the civil state, but that consistency is something that is ultimately confirmed by the BiH Constitutional Court and that this principle can be implemented democratically in various frameworks, and so the civil states only then must all the partners in this dialogue be a bona fide, and that is not the case. That's not the case. I don't think anyone in this House has any, despite what my colleague Troscott said, I'm sorry that no one's there in that way and so naively looking at the situation. At the very end, we can agree, I can agree with these challenges that we have discussed, mentioned by my colleague Balic, that in 2021 in terms of Europe, Croatia in Europe, and what is yet to come will be very challenging, and here I can only hope that we will continue on the board to work and make some contribution to making it even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100467	The first replica of the esteemed Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100468	Thank you, Vice President. Coli Glavasevic, when we talk about enlargement especially by apostrophe of the Western Balkans, is an inevitable issue, a Macedonia issue that has been in the waiting room for more than 15 years where the EU really shows double criteria if we compare Macedonia's demands to it and demands to some other potential members, i.e. candidates for opening negotiations. I wonder if you think there are any endblocks? So, first Greece for years, after that, it seemed to me that we solved the problem of Greece, now the question of Bulgaria has arisen. So will the EU simply end this agony, because it is my impression that year after year the popularity of the EU and the affection of Macedonian citizens in the EU is only falling and that this status quo brings nothing good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100469	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100470	Thank you for asking, colleague Petyr. I think Macedonia's question is one of the relatively rare issues where the two of us politically agree on the 1/1. Yes, you're absolutely right. I think Macedonia is a victim and should say it loud and clear. In this particular case of this veto, I would say the games of the larger EU member states and the more influential they are to say indirectly. And right at the last COSAC we spoke with members and members of the Bulgarian delegation. I mean, we all asked them about it. I don't feel like there is, so there's a will to get rid of it, because I think it's become a political burden to them, too, but I'm not sure they understand it's up to them to take those first steps.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100471	The next replica, respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100472	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I just want to make your argument that we all agree on this, I believe at least the majority that Southeast Europe belongs to the EU, that it is in our best interest that all countries are in the EU as soon as possible. In fact, this war has shown and shown finally in the right light of some policy, I am talking about Serbia, and I think that the Serbian elections will, in part, hopefully be conditioned by where Serbian citizens actually see their country. I hope in the EU, but it's a question for them now. What I was about to say is that I sent a letter to the European authorities as a representative, pleading to Ukraine to give candidate country status. Of course that doesn't mean that Ukraine doesn't have any homework, but I'm advocating... pass. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you get homework, if you do it then you have to go on and not change the rules in the middle of the game. Ukraine would actually be a strong message if we saw it in the foreseeable future in our family, the European family of free countries, and at this point I think very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100473	Yes, colleague Hajdukovic, we understand each other. I don't think anyone's going to argue that the accession process is something that Ukraine needs to give. However, the value of the approach process lies in that I would say the legitimacy strong for the changes that are needed. Because if the EU represents some kind of example or ideal of prosperity, rule of law, democracy, way of life at the end of the good for people, what for citizens and citizens is not now oligarchs or those who belong, it is one percent the richest. If this is the EU, then the accession process is the path that we will lead to and it has its value. This should therefore not be denied by any Member State. It's not always a pleasant process, it isn't, but it is, but ultimately leads to a good outcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100474	Following the final debate, he was first on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative of Darko Sobota.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100475	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, in fact, we can all agree or at least a large majority of us here who were here and at the beginning of this 3 point today, I dare say to the great work of this Committee on European Affairs and once a comprehensive report which the chairman of this committee, Mr Hajdukovic, on behalf of the proposer and suggested and explained in his 20 minutes, almost rushed and hurried himself to give us all as much information on the work of this committee as possible in those 20 minutes. A colleague, Balic, and a large majority of colleagues and colleagues who were behind this speaker on behalf of the clubs, have also pointed out in fact great support for this report, which is not to be surprised. Therefore, I will not convince him because it is already fully explained by everyone, especially by the president of the Committee on European Affairs, of counterparts Hajdukovic. But what I would like, in fact, in my report on behalf of the HDZ Club, to point out actually the words of my colleague Posavec Krivec. And I think that her words are actually a real picture of this committee's work and that's why I'm not sure I'm going to be able to quote exactly to the end, but mutual tolerance, respect, acceptance and different thinking, but what's most important in this committee is that I'm not long, 10 months, but most important without any politics. Therefore, this committee also has such good results and all the members and members and professional services whether they are working here on, between these walls, but also on all the receptions that are enrolled on delegations where this committee headed by the president had the opportunity to be and represent this institution, have actually given its own pain and contribution precisely to the quality of this work. They, the few fewer who may not have actually agreed but will support the work of this committee, in fact, did not even listen to these statements, at least I don't believe that they actually read this report because they have, as they usually do, taken advantage of this point for some other, some other moments. This is exactly one tolerance between all members and members of the board, as I have said, has contributed to this, this quality work, so let me also thank everyone as well as to the professional service mentioned by the president himself, all members and members of the board, fellow Vice-President Glavasevic and finally President Hajdukovic for the leadership of this committee, but above all also at one real, excellent presentation of the institution that we all present in this committee. Therefore, as my colleague told me before, counterpart Balic, the HDZ Club will be happy to accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100476	Following is the final debate on behalf of Green-left bloc advocates, respected Bojana Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100477	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the end, I'd like to thank you really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, I wish, I wish that these discussions were actually attended by more colleagues and colleagues. It would be, it might make more sense if a debate like this took place in a term that, how to express itself more diplomaticly, more popular this one, and also good or say if it were to happen at a political moment in Croatia where focus is still higher in parliament and slightly smaller in the executive power. I think that would have a very favourable impact between us and understanding what the EU is and what our place is and what we are talking about. And the things we're talking about on this committee are really coming in I'd say what's at the heart of the interests of all our citizens and citizens. We want to start from the fact that, from the euro currency, if we're going to start from the security policy, on the board we've discussed the Russian influence both in Croatia and in the region, we've discussed sanctions. So I kind of get the impression that our board, which he certainly isn't for no reason listed on number 3 on the list of working bodies. So one of the most important working bodies in the Croatian Parliament, and on the other hand, I think that very often simply understanding his role and the interest of citizens and citizens for his work is so little worse than he could be. And I think it's something we can work on. I'd like to repeat some of the things I've already said. I think we have if we want to achieve this effect, and we agreed that we want to achieve that effect so that in the future we should think about how we can take advantage of the more opportunities offered to us in the framework of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which are actually in our job description, and maybe we haven't done them yet, so that we can participate more in public and public debates. I think it's a very good practice that we've introduced even though it's an opportunity to transfer the board's session to Youtube on live, and let's just say that if we could maybe promote it a little bit more that this is something we're doing, I have the impression that it would already have some kind of a positive effect. And finally something that I think is quite underrated or simply as something that we do very often, which is very much in our job description especially on, on COSAC, so these contacts with, this parliamentary diplomacy that exists and that happens all the time, these contacts that we make with colleagues and colleagues from other parliaments, and especially here I think of parliaments in the Western Balkan countries lately, I think they've been very productive, and I think they've really helped understand one another. I think it is very helpful for parliamentarians and parliamentarians from those countries to gain better insight into what is happening in the EU. There may also be some informal communication channel, and eventually they can help to exchange experiences in their approach processes. So, what Croatia has been through, what it has spoken of in some ways, and counterpart Petir doesn't have to have all the countries that will go through this process in the future, it doesn't have to be as difficult for all of them as it was for us at times, and I think our experience can be very helpful in that. And this parliamentary diplomacy, through visits between the committees on European affairs of the Member States and these other candidate countries, and through, for example, those meetings at COSACs, I think it's really very good and it's a great value that it might even be able to work on some kind of institutionalisation of these processes. So maybe if we were on the board to set ourselves some goals about who we would like to meet, what we would like to talk about and be some kind of proactive approach. I'm sorry that there are no fellow Stiers today, he always has very interesting discussions and I would very much like to listen to them, but this and this debate came to an end, thank you again to everyone who participated in it and now sugar at the end of fellow Highdukovic finally if you allow me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100478	Final debate on behalf of the rapporteur, respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100479	Thank you, Chairman. Here, just a few final words, notes, comments on the words so far. First of all, I would like to thank everyone for the debate, I have to conclude unfortunately that all or the current members of the board or former members are in the assembly, so that we will obviously have to work to raise awareness, perhaps even the importance of this debate among other representatives and MPs, more so that our committee is unique because we are also representing the prey of the Croatian Parliament by bringing views, opinions on positions, and precisely because it is not going to be the prey we have this report. I would like to thank all the members and members at work, thank the vice-presidents Sobota and Glavasevic, as well as all the former presidents and board members who have installed their work in what we have today. And even before I finally thank you, I'll say it like that, just a few comments. So, as chairman of the board, I'm open to all suggestions, initiatives and so forth, I think I've proven that boredom. I would like to draw attention to some colleagues and colleagues in the opposition that in the Committee on European Affairs, despite the fact that someone in the opposition still has a majority position. And so if we want to do some things, we have to deal with most of them. If I weren't wrong my soul, the boredom of all the initiatives that were too much, and all of them were too much to say I would say they were really well accepted and as fellow vice president Saturday was saying we didn't have any dissonant tones about it because we believe that our work, in fact the only goal of our work is the improvement of Croatia. Whether we improve regulations, whether we improve the government's work, whether we strengthen certain opinions in reality with our own opinions. I'd call the same SDP, unfortunately there are no representatives here, there's one vacant seat on the board still haven't appointed a member or member, I'd invite them to do that because it belongs to them according to our agreement and that then they're actively participating in the board, so maybe some of the initiatives we've heard about this speaker they say in the right place, which is, it's a committee. As far as the public's work committee is concerned, I wish the interest were greater. I really would. As my colleague Glavasevic said, we have introduced and transferred the board through Youtube and all our sessions are open to the public. So, journalists, the media if they want can always come. But it has proved that some topics are simply not attractive, let’s say, perhaps best diplomaticly, that they seem abstract when we are discussing them in the form of opinions, and they are actually very important because when you read opinions or opinions about an act, it seems to you like something sucks. But actually, when you read the point of view, you see that this applies to some of the crucial things in everyday life. Let's say a line of transport on islands or something related to agriculture, I can't remember specific examples now, but there are a handful of them. So, the things we're discussing on the board are very important on the board. I'd agree with the grades of some to do a lot, but not enough. I'm the most critical of myself and it's never enough, it's always more and it can always be better and therefore thank you and for the constructive criticism that I'm going to try to do in the next period through our work, let's put it that way in the works. Unfortunately, we were also limited by pandemics and earthquakes. So the pandemic was in this reporting period. There was also an earthquake in the past and everything was happening, so for objective reasons we were limited not only by our Committee, but also by all the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. But as we can see, it seems to me that we are going back to normal or... as it would say in pure Croatian, so I believe that in the foreseeable period we will be able to intensify that. Once again, I would like to invite all the working bodies to participate in the debate, initiate or discuss views, bring opinions on issues of interest to Obor. That's what some working bodies are already doing. Look at this here fellow Petir I will elect her because she is present at the head of the Committee on Agriculture, they are indeed engaged in European issues which, logically, since the common European policy, is a common agricultural policy of the European Union and is a very important segment of the common policies. I'd also like to invite all MPs, so access to the so-called DEU you have all, they are publicly available, suggest, come to me with proposals, initiatives, come to the meetings of the Committee. You don't have to be members of the board to come and debate. And finally, all of us as representatives and clubs, the working bodies can also address the European Commission directly as I have told them, ask for answers just as we do with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I suggest that the more we use it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100480	We have two replicas. The first is a respected representative, Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100481	Thank you, Vice President. In fact, it is a shame that the Committee's work is almost invisible to the public regardless of all the efforts that seem to be made, because sometimes these sessions take several hours and really have constructive discussions that we can say to the ministry take into account, and often good proposals are built into legislation. Here were a number of suggestions on how to bring the work of the European Affairs Committee closer to the public. You said yourself that when you might read the agenda or let the first page act abstractly until you enter into the topic and until you see that these are all some life problems and that it is good that we can discuss it and influence the policies that will be shaped. Do you think there's some other space for public communication to bring them closer to what the Committee is doing?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100482	Thank you very much, colleague Petyr. There certainly is. We will devote ourselves to it in the next period either through round tables, stands or the like, and perhaps by trying our sessions a little more attractive, let's say so conditionally. We've already done that. We have started consultations with certain ambassadors, for example, on a trade agreement negotiated with Australia. Our plan is in due time to invite the Ambassador of Canada to brief us on the effects. Not until the end of a ratified trade agreement with Canada, though. There are other countries in the perspective that are negotiating with the Union, let's say that this is our contribution to some of the topics that might be of interest to the general public above all to the entrepreneurial, economic, then to those contracts that arise or to the contracts that are already in existence may be able to see an opportunity for their company.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100483	The last replica of the respected Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100484	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Highdukovic on the trail of this is obviously through the debate it seems that one of the main issues has become, in fact, how to make our work more visible and how to focus more on bringing citizens and citizens closer to the European Union and European affairs. You remember, and I know that you remember because I know you're following the work of the French Committee on European Affairs, remember how their few senators introduced the practice of writing on some issues the position papers and then going to the Committee for example. that their Committee on European Affairs, if any of their members and members write a position, argues that the Committee can publish and present such a thing to the public. Maybe that's something? I don't think all of our members and members of what I'm authorizing to say, but there are some that would certainly be, and then that would be an interesting way to bring these topics closer especially to different values for citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100485	Thank you, fellow Glavasevic. I can only conclude that this is, say, a very interesting initiative that we could once again also translate into action. Although this is not a business-recognizable form of work, but nothing prevents us from being innovative in this part and from telling colleagues and colleagues who might want to say something, they can and will give us a chance to discuss some things on the Committee. Why not? In fact, I'm open to something like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u100486	With this, we've exhausted the debate on this wheel. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue at 9:30 with the Final Proposal for the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, Second Reading, P.Z.E. number 242. Good night. WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u83013	Let's go to another debate now will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement esteemed colleague Bartulic, and I would ask only the MPs are still at the strength of the mask provision to put on masks, we hope that we will almost take them off, but until further notice, I ask you all to wear masks. Here's a colleague of Bartulic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u83014	Thank you. We also hope that soon we will be able to without these masks they're bored already. My colleagues and colleagues are headings in the media these days full of speculation about who's coming, who's leaving the government, but I'm going to ask one principle question this morning. To whom does the Croatian government serve? And my thesis is that it does not matter who will be new ministers in Plenkovic's government and who will leave, it is certainly time to change something seriously, but old practices and habits will continue and it will cost Croatian peoples. These days I referred the official question to Minister Beros about ordered doses of vaccines, and I was interested in what conditions were ordered and the number of doses Croatia will receive by the end of 2023. We know that on behalf of all of us, the European Commission has provided approximately 5 billion doses by the end of next year. I got an unofficial response yesterday on a show that it's about 18 million doses, 18 million. So if the purchase price is of, of these vaccines 20 euros per dose which is publicly available information and prices are rising, then the Farmaco industry is increasing prices lately. This comes to an amount of 2.7 billion kuna, so 2.7 billion kuna will be spent on the vaccine and a legitimate question arises to whom, who will be vaccinated, children, has no interest at all by parents to vaccinate children. Children under the age of 10. Less than 1% was vaccinated. So, what about the huge excess vaccine, who's going to be responsible for those failures, the big failures? That's my calculation of one and a half Peles bridges. Much of what is being decided at European Commission level in Brussels is not in Croatia's interest. This government has been taking these decisions too lightly, and we've seen from the beginning of the pandemic that Ursula von der Leyen is not doing well. They've made huge mistakes. They've already made 2. We're looking at it, and now we're in a situation where the public is going to wonder where we're going with the surplus and what it's so ordered for, it's huge money. So, once again, I will say that the Croatian government corresponds to the Croatian people, Croatian taxpayers, not the stockholders of Pfizer and other farm companies. So I'm not interested in their profits, and how they're going to take advantage of this situation, this problem that's still going on, but we need to look at the situation carefully and assess what the needs are and what the demand for these vaccines are. We're going to have huge problems this year and next year. So, in this assembly, I warned Minister Beros on December 9th that this crown policy is unsustainable, that the new variants of the virus actually do not correspond to new variants, and that is the World Health Organization itself claims and acknowledges. So, we've done actually the government has made a huge mistake. In these speculations about going ministers, I would also add to the health minister, it is not necessary that a neurosurgeon, a surgeon, can manage a system like this that continues to waste money irrationally, it is not by chance that private polyclinics do nothing in Croatian cities because simply patients can't come to order, they can't consume services. So, ladies and gentlemen, it's time to show how it is, the state is alarmingly bad and the Homeland Movement will continue to warn on, on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u83072	We are now going to the fourth debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, will speak colleague Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u83073	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. In 4 days, elections will be held in the Republic of Serbia for the National Assembly. Currently, the number of Croats in Serbia is around 57 900. Their number's been halved in the last 30 years. It should be noted in a country where there was no war. Where the Croats did not raise an armed rebellion, where there was no Balvan of the Revolution, where the Croats did not ask for parts of Vojvodina to be attached to Croatia. The number of Croats has been cut in half. Unfortunately, even today, Croats are not citizens of the second but last order in the Republic of Serbia. Despite the signed international agreement since 2004, between Croatia and the then state of Serbia-Montenegro on the rights of national minorities, Croats today have no political rights in the Republic of Serbia. By contrast, representatives of the Serb community have 3 guaranteed representatives here in the Croatian Parliament, have a dozen guaranteed mayors, have 40 guaranteed commissioners, the mayor, the mayor, have several hundred council members at all levels of government. Croats in the Republic of Serbia have one big nothing. Both Croats and today live in fear in the Republic of Serbia. I'll give you a few examples. In 2018, in Berek near Somboro, the entire generation of students and their parents decided to teach in Croatian. After that, a media hack, pressures, threats both to them and to the principal. A new survey is being conducted, half the students are giving up teaching in Croatian and there are still threats, after which, the resolution ministry approves the department in Croatian and behold, no one registers. For fear. A Serbian national director eventually resigned because she could not withstand the threat to the local Croatian population. Another new incident took place three weeks ago when literally all principals of primary schools in which teaching takes place in the Croatian language in the Vojvodina area were invited to an informative conversation at police stations due to the criminal offence of child discrimination because children who attend Croatian language classes received free textbooks and children of Serbian nationality did not. It is a textbook shared by the Croatian National Council. But that brings unrest amongst the principals. Unfortunately, Croatian diplomacy has not responded to this. On the other hand, the current Serbian authorities in Serbia primarily raise the so-called "Serbs". The rebel national minority, raising their manifestations, such as Dužijanci, who is the most famous cultural manifestation of Croats in Vojvodina and which lasts for 3 months, received 7 times less funds from the Dužijanci, who lasts only one day. At cultural events conducted by the Bunjevi, all senior officials from the province and the Republic come while the Croatian-run events are held, almost no one comes. Croatians in the Republic of Serbia from all levels of government for their overall activity get an annual, you know how much? A million kunas. For education, for cultural action, for information. That's how much SNV gets in Zagreb alone. And then as a cake cream, we have a shameful Croatian diplomacy in mind and the work of Hidajet Bištevic, who has been working for the past few weeks on the further crumbling of the Croatian National Corps and is primarily engaged in an attack on the current representatives of the Croatian community in Vojvodina, primarily on the president of the Democratic Union of the Croatians, Vojvodina Tomislav Žigmanov, who accuses him of being held hostage for the poor position of Croats in Vojvodina because he does not wish to co-operate with the current Serbian authorities. If someone is responsible for the poor position of Croats in Vojvodina, then it is the Croatian diplomacy that has since 2004 failed to provide guaranteed representatives of Croats at all levels of government. It is a shame that Hidajet Bištevic invites the irrelevant political parties to the Christmas event, while Croatia's strongest political option, the Democratic Union of the Croats of Vojvodina does not call. It is even more embarrassing that Hidajet Biščević does not respond to any event organised by the Croatian National Council as a roof association of Croats in Vojvodina. Here's me and a few colleagues ten days ago we were in Subotica on the 20th anniversary of Croatian recognition as a national minority. The Ambassador of Croatia was not there. This is a shame and he is a disgrace to Croatian diplomacy and better to have no ambassador than to have one. And I expect the Minister of Resort to call him and put him in line.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u83144	The 7th debate of the Social Democrats' Club will be held by respected counterpart Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u83145	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, I'd look back in these few minutes on the unbearable ease of embarrassing and embarrassing this country that has become so common that we're almost used to it. I primarily think here of what we had the opportunity to hear the last two days from Minister of Foreign Affairs Gordan Grlic Radman, who first said something that was said on Monday by hundreds of our cafes and around the world not only by ours, that Puta's criminal, executioner and I don't know how he'd already qualified him, then he went, there was a sharp warning from the Russian ambassador that yesterday we would have seen a stuttering, unsuspecting, confusing and humiliating justification, and that's something that really requires I would say unnecesssarily in the forthcoming reconstruction of the government of which the prime minister tells us that this name must never be bypassed. But Gordan Grlić Radman is the only one I would say not only walking blasphemy but also a plaque sandwich on which all the indifference, confusion and misunderstanding of Croatian foreign policy, precisely those policies where we expected perhaps the most qualitative results and the most serious policy, given that it was led by two people who came out of the same litter of grain and people we expected to swim well in these waters. Instead, we'll have it at 2. We actually have here a confrontation of two different private conflicts between two people who don't want to use their own country for some tiny little breakthrough in these mutually profound and for the country harmful to each other's relations. We have a president of the state that no one is receiving, who has made some boat trip to Albania or anyone who comes. We have a president of the Republic who advocates in these times of crisis that he should be under the table while the greats fight. We have a Prime Minister who praises all of our mouths how much we have sent these weapons to Ukraine for not doing anything serious or what is not done in serious states. So, we have one confusion, a charge that one of the associates of the Kremlin, an Agent of the Kremlin, this other accuses that Croatian children would be easily sent to war here, etc. This type of rhetoric in one such serious and important policy shows that when small people lead small countries show complexes on one side of inferiority, less value, on the other hand the grandomanic thesis of their own personal importance and that is what we all become, in fact, hostages of such one, I would say extremely irresponsible, irresponsible policies. We Social Democrats in our club do not advocate, nor do we remember to staff at HDZ or tell them which ministers will remain, nor who will leave, but we advocate a functioning government and, by all accounts, a government that should be reconstructed, which should be reconstructed by Croatian citizens because it is finally shown and demonstrated that the government leading this country with any of the aspects no matter how normal things seem to us, around normal are not functional. In fact, Croatia is going below the level of its capabilities, and even below the level of the needs of citizens who expect a government that solves problems, preserves the dignity of people and preserves the dignity of their country's citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u83218	Now there's a respected colleague of the Dark-Taritash on behalf of the CENTR and GLAS Club, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u83219	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Croatian citizens have already become accustomed to various stresses that seem to not be able to let us go a little bit. It's not even the case with us alone, it's the other corona, the earthquake, the war in Ukraine. We live with constant stress and unrest. One of the things that causes constant stress and unrest are prices. Prices rise from basic diet to energy, including fuel prices. Every Tuesday they change, and it almost comes to us as some kind of lottery that numbers will be drawn this week, how much the price will rise, and the price will mostly rise and rise, and no occasional decrease that breaks down on us is lasting. This week we had another pick-up on that lottery fuel price again we lost, regular gasoline is 12.5 kuna further, diesel is 13.5 kuna, then more, diesel is always a special problem because around half of Croatia's private cars have a diesel engine, and all buses, trucks and vans, so those who deliver goods or transport passengers use mostly diesel fuel. There were other times and other laws, but really convenient with nostalgia to remember that the price of the euro is perfect in 1999. was around 4 kuna, 2015. We were still below 10 kuna, 2018, so not so long ago were the analyses of whether and when the fuel crossed the magical or psychological border, as they called it, of 11 kuna, and today we are in a situation where some analysts announce 15 kuna and all after the government intervened in margins and VAT. The price of barrels of oil currently moves about 100 or slightly above $100. The record price of the barrels we experienced in July 2008 when it was $147, and yet in that same July 2008 it cost 9.75 kuna, and diesel 9.99 kuna, so the rough bill is that the barrel was about 40% more expensive than today, and the fuel 20 to 30% cheaper than today and now I'm asking you, answer me what the trick is, which is why ladies and gentlemen is so expensive, certainly the value of the dollar that has grown heavily compared to the kuna since 2008, but with that difference in the rate of barrels today and then somewhere we are exactly at the same price of the barrel calculated in kuna, so there can be an explanation of 35% of the more expensive fuel today. It is logical that the situation in Ukraine, uncertainty and the unpredictability of developments play a role, and if nothing else it is for speculation and speculation of paradise on earth, but it does not explain to the end this high price of fuel compared to the barrel. In the Croatian state, about half the retail fuel price of about 12 kuna is imposed. There must be room for change, so it's not fuel luxury goods to pay for it in such percentages. Fuel has become a basic need and it is a big question whether or not it can be treated as some kind of tax cow. If I were not to say at all that such a rise in fuel prices significantly stimulates inflation, and a high inflation rate could in theory complicate our entry into the euro area, probably not because of inflation growth in the strongest European economies, but we need to be careful, inflation is in any case complicated our least said life. But let's go back to the theme of fuel. What bothers me the most, and what I can't get any more of is why the fuel prices in Croatia are more than in all neighbouring countries except possibly Italy, some of them aren't, some of them are in the EU, some have weaker, some stronger economies than us, some are pre-election times, some are not, but they all have one common feature, at least a little cheaper fuel than we are. Why is that and whether it can be changed, these are the questions I'm looking for answers to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u83273	Now she will speak for her esteemed colleague, Bencic, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u83274	Thank you. I will look back on the government crises we have faced in recent weeks and months where we can actually say that the governments of Andrej Plenkovic have, from 2016 on at least, reminded me of all the well-known scene of a trade window where there has been no activity for a long time, the dust has covered both the windows and the interior, but from the door screams that optimistic message "we are soon opening up, only we are not, redecorating" or not to say reconstruction in progress. Thus, dusting caught up with every government by Plenkovic so far in which fog sellers at the minister's posts in official Mercedes came, leaving their positions in the margins. In the interface between their entrenchedness and their shameful departures, the prime minister was mostly engaged in their defence or our deception because it would very quickly prove that most of them have come to their vault from day one with a special task to maintain or expand HDZ's corruption octopus. So the days, months and years went by, the affairs that gave the media generously clickable content. There were tears from Minister Žalac, there were subtle threats by Martina Dalic, there were interferences with the state and private properties of former Minister of State Property Maric, there was land change and the sale of the former minister of thanks to God I have a lot of property on the floor, throwing Djakic's representative at the prime minister's decision to replace Tolusic. It was all, but nothing really happened. This could sum up these 65 and a half, 65 and a half months of Plenkovic's leadership of the Republic of Croatia. Because while these numerous affairs were filling the media, citizens feared every new one, and we on this side of the assembly were making judgmental statements, and because of this whole circus, there was a much more important, much more dreary and far-reaching reality. And that's the reality of an empty window. The dust that falls for every reform ever mentioned, every pre-election promise, the dust that gathers on our education, the judiciary, our health care, our infrastructure, our social system, the housing fund, especially those naturally injured in the earthquake and the basic existence of millions of citizens. Out of the big story about EU funds, the most remembered are the affairs and the fact that we still don't have any operational programmes to use the new financial perspective. While the public is having fun whether Minister Tramišak had or didn't trust the minister, the prime minister and whether at his mercy or mercy remains the fact that we don't even have the basic documents to use a new financial perspective that began in late January 2021. This great nothing because of the lack of policies and the lack of capacity of these governments for a real economic and social twist was used by those to whom politics and public and common good represent nothing. Thus, the political vacuum created new billionaires who first occupied the markets for energy, strategic transport infrastructure, made media dependent on their lease of media space, and now move on to agricultural land, food and the rest of the energy infrastructure along the way by hiring some well-known and well-deserved HDZs. The coast has been paved, hundreds of millions of kunas are given to housing interest banks benefiting from only real estate mechanics and the same bank itself. And the citizens are over-indebted and their debts are sold to legal debt seekers, tens of thousands have run away with their heads regardless. My dear colleagues, beneath this great... The circus, the real shadow players have shared most of the Croatian resources already, and today when we witness the reckoning of these party players that reaches all the way to the prime minister, we see that HDZ has created a system in which every wolf and no one is safe anymore, and even those in that HDZ at the top. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the arguments that we do not need to go to the elections because we need stability and security are at least absurd because the only thing that is permanent is the instability of Plenkovic's governments. So instead of the colorful lies about reorganizing the store, we need to write closed down for a permanent move.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u83366	Good morning, respected colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work, today as always at the beginning of Wednesday, to present the position of club representatives and independent representatives. Today will be the first Club of Representatives of the Most and Honored Col. Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u83367	The scandalous behaviour of Croatian Ambassador Hidajet Bištevic in Serbia is more than scandalous where he harasses Croatian political representatives apparently under the orders of the head of diplomacy and Andrej Plenkovic. I would only briefly tell your colleagues and colleagues that this is an unremembered precedent in foreign policy. That he has been harassing Serbia for years, for decades harassed political representatives in this case, Mr. Zigmanov, Biscevic Hidajet, who is behind the '90s. He became a great Croatian with a great "H", emphasising his patriotism, harassing Zigmanov, who is the biggest opponent of the great Serbian, Chetnik president Aleksandr Vukic. And he criticises Zigmanov for not dragging himself into this wolf's apprentice of Cheseli's Chetnik. He, imagine the Croatian ambassador, imagine that the Serbian ambassador criticises in this way Milorad Pupovac, while at the same time receiving with him into the embassy of war-squares, butchers and criminals who attacked our country. Imagine now a political situation where neither Croats nor any representatives are present in parliament. In Croatia, we have 3 representatives of the Serbian national minority, 40 deputy mayors, 12 guaranteed mayors. And regardless of the bilateral agreement Croatia has signed, and Serbia, that both states must ensure the representation of the national minority of another state in their parliament. There's no respect for that. And now Bištević is maltiring, persecuting, Satanizing Zigmanov, who united with political parties from Vojvodina. It'll be a tribal coalition with the Vucic's party. It will be a tribal in the Chetnik movement and would be more acceptable to him and to the government of Andrej Plenkovic. Well, gentlemen of the ruling majority, you're being run by Milorad Pupovac. Milorad Pupovac and SDSS are not opposition, they are the majority of HDZ gentlemen. Most of them who run you. And you see what your ambassador is doing with Grlic Radman. You see what he does to political representatives who have been harassed for years and decades. Serbian minorities in Croatia have all guaranteed rights. Croatia does not and does not respect Serbia's international agreement signed with Croatia in 2004, which is based on reciprocity. So I ask Andrej Plenkovic, Grlic Radman, Hidayet, to ask where the reluctance is, that you are harassing Zigmanov. The man who stood up to the Wolf's regime. What would he do? Bend in front of the Wolf. What am I supposed to do, and I'm asking you what you want to do? We left these people alone in Vojvodina and Serbia. No representative has any Croatian so that he will be elected in this term now in Serbia, no Croatian representative has any. In the past he was Mr. Zigmanov because he was in the coalition i.e. on the civil list, not as a guaranteed representative. So raise your voice. You heroes with a heart-to-heart that Biscevic does not harass, Plenkovic is full and Grlica Radmana is not harassed but masculinated people, our political representatives of Croatia in Serbia. Put an end to it, so raise your voice yet you are the people's advocates not to you this chair for ever and ever.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u83448	We are going to the ninth debate, SDP's Club of Representatives, respected colleague Vlasic Iljkic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u83449	Recently adopted so-called. the social care reform package and, as announced in response to the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy to the situation in the constitution of social care, particularly tragic cases with the deaths of children, women and older people. The starting point was true, that the system really needed systematic root reform, that the system as such offered no protection and all rights in accordance with the legal rules but the course of the reform and the final adoption took place beyond the profession and those who needed to implement the reform. We now have passed legal changes that have in no way responded to burning problems in the social care system that social circumstances continuously indicate. Only this weekend we had a remurder and attempted murder of women, treatment of the center related to the baby's death and what is with all that media is not followed and everyday happening around us in all parts of Croatia. What we can safely say is that problems in society will be growing, more demanding, indifference and the increase in the cost of living is measured on a daily basis, the stress in society is growing, we witness an increase in intolerance and violence in the family and in the public place. The effects of the pandemic on the mental health of citizens have been constantly warned, we have sought systematic care about the psychological health of children and citizens. Behind the carpet you can no longer see from all the accumulated problems that have been pushed under it. All this awaits workers in the welfare system who are legally obliged to provide advisory assistance to families and individuals, to protect the rights of children, older people, persons with disabilities, victims of domestic violence, as well as to recognise the material and financial rights of users in need. We asked to set aside financial assistance from the social care system so that professional workers of the social care centre would have time to work with the family and on the ground. We welcomed the increase in compensation for persons with disabilities and users guaranteed minimum fees, we also asked for additional increases for users of extras for assistance and care as well as for the expansion of users for a threatened pile of energy to users of extras for assistance and care in full about and reduced scope. In early March, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a new Regulation on the monthly amount of compensation for threatened energy customers and are now users of national compensation for older people, beneficiaries of the right to cash compensation for unemployed Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and beneficiaries of the right to cash compensation for civilian victims in the Homeland War. All these... users will exercise their right through a decision on the recognition of the rights to be passed by the Croatian Institute for Social Work and to its establishment, this will be done by social care centres. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We oppose this way of organisation of business and jurisdiction and ask that for users from other resors, administration of compensation rights for endangered energy, take charge of the competent resolutions, so that users of national compensation for older persons are granted to their vouchers at HZMO and unemployed Croatian defenders and civilian victims from the Homeland War are entitled to exercise their rights in competent counties where they obtain supplies and other rights. Let's just remember how we witnessed huge opposition that defenders are classifying themselves with users of the social care system and now we have a situation that different user groups of others will exercise this right under the social care system and the unemployed Croatian defenders. Not to mention thousands of administrative procedures that will be brought this way in social care centres and professional workers will have even less time for family counseling and assistance. People need help, to recognise additional rights but they also need to provide workers who will do these jobs and are not social workers of the welfare system. They are there to help families and individuals with their skills and work licenses in difficulties through advisory work and primary empowerment rather than administration in administrative procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u83529	As the tenth, a respected colleague, Deur, will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u83530	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable representatives, representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Today in the Croatian Parliament I want to talk about the dead officer, the Croatian director, the first victim of the Homeland War, Josip Jovic but also the symbol he represents. Today, when we have our country, the mention of Josip Jovic, who died defending the Croatian people, has great significance, not only symbolically. Tomorrow, March 31st is marked by the death of Josip Jovic. On Easter 31st March 1991, in the early morning hours of car columns with Croatian specialists, an ambush was attacked, the action remained remembered for the first Croatian victim. Joseph was 21 years old, on the shallows of that bloody Easter he lost his young life defending Croatia. The death of Josip Jovic, who is expressing his deepest respect today, announced the horror of the defensive Homeland War, and as such symbolized all victims of the extinguished lives of the defenders who gave their lives for Croatia. It is precisely for these reasons that it is important for young people to instill in the truth how difficult it was to gain independence. History textbooks should be the source of calling for generations to come, they must be shown through which one generation and pain and suffering went through to achieve the dream of thousands of years. And that is why Josip Jovic and Plitvica police are symbols that must be permanently evaluated and in the most sacred way we must constantly work to meet new generations with selfless heroic works that many have built the foundations of a free European Croatian state. So brave young men like Josip Jovic went to war were willing to give his life on the altar of the homeland today to give him the heart of all mothers, children, families, Joseph’s mother, Mary, who put her son in tears on the altar of the homeland. Josip Jovic and all the victims of the Homeland War continue to oblige us never to be forgotten, not only to remember them from opportunity to occasion, but to live and create Croatia every day as they would be proud of, and that is a special task for us MPs in HS. I recall that then-Mostov Minister Orepic did not recognize the same honorable patriotism, not once, but twice, on two occasions, when young nephew Josip Jovic wanted to become the same Croatian police officer. This way I would like to thank the former defence minister and wartime commander General Damir Krstic, who made the conditions for young Joseph and many such Josephs to be members of the Croatian state as a link to a generation that created these generations as well. Therefore, dear MPs and MPs, dear colleagues, with all our political differences, we do not allow the symbol and foundation of the sovereign Croatian state to be a political arena because we Croatian people dreamed of Croatia in which there will be no division, which will know how to protect the Croatian people and be a country in which everyone will be able to live in peace. My generation had this privilege, and my duty to be a participant of what generations did not know, which is the creation of a Croatian state. Today it is our duty to do everything to preserve the truth about the Homeland War, that children and future generations know what happened, what price our defenders paid, if we fail to succeed in Joseph's death and sacrifice, as well as the sacrifice of all our defenders would be lost. The victim of Josip Jovic is particularly striking in the context of the current war in Europe and the terrible aggression on Ukraine, respecting the courage of the Ukrainian people who are experiencing the most difficult moments whose cities are being destroyed to the ground, children, women, young and old. That's why we as a people are particularly emotional towards Ukraine. Let us not forget that the same young men we had in moments of terrible great Serb aggression on Croatia, young people who left carefree youth, went to defend their houses, family and country. Let us not forget that we owe them our freedom, and they deserve respect, a lasting mention of the Croatian people. I would like to tell you from this pay phone that we will never again repeat those policies that came in 2000, which have closed and persecuted the most sacred things that in the Croatian people are the foundation, Croatian symbols, Homeland War and Croatian defenders. Today's government and Croatian Defence Minister Tomo Medved did everything in their mandate to keep these values in the deserved place permanently preserved for generations to come.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u83531	I thank all those who participated in the debate, we will now move on to the announced agenda. We are going to the fifth debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club for Fair Croatia will be spoken by counterpart Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u83707	Dearly respected, Croatian farmers remained appalled by the threat that they could remain in the next period without 10% of the total envelope for direct incentives, due to the correction made by the European Commission. The 10% correction refers to a total envelope for direct payments of 300m euros, which means it would amount to 30m euros or close to 230m kuna. The auditors of the European Commission cited as a reason for the correction the very lack of control on the ground carried out by the Payments Agency. The European Commission auditors also very negatively assessed the reference price base run by the same agency in the Rural Programme Support Sector, with a number of objections to the lack of procedures for the sector. This could mean that in the near future, the European Commission will also make additional corrections for part of the agricultural envelope relating to rural development funds, which will be an even greater blow for domestic farmers. The Agency acknowledges that the European Commission has announced certain adjustments and that the European Commission expects the European Commission to respond to the measures taken by the European side after it has learned that sanctions are threatening it, and such positive responses in the past have been very little or almost so that there are no examples in which, following the first decision, the European Commission has withdrawn the corrective measure. All these objections as well as a very certain fine of 230 million kuna per envelope for direct payments show that Croatia's agriculture in the European framework has major problems and that the leading people of the ministry are having a hard time finding the right solutions to help Croatian farmers survive the crisis. In monitoring the implementation of the IPARD programme, since the beginning of the rural development programme, different development stakeholders have clearly observed and reported to the competent authorities on a number of irregularities, fraud, and active and passive corruption in the work of the Agency and the Ministry of Agriculture and the ARP, the State Audit, and in general to all public-law bodies located in the implementation control system. It is clear that, for years, the general agricultural policy, i.e. the rural development policy in Croatia, has been led to the least said unprofessional, lobbying and corrupt way that is in complete contrast with national interests, which has also led to the social and demographic degradation of rural areas and has only compromised the sustainability of our country, which is clearly evident from all the growing indicators of the decline of agricultural production and import growth. Why is that? Because since the start of the implementation of the use of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, the whole system has been set up in a way of full legal uncertainty, non-transparency, self-will and manipulation of civil servants, subsistence officers and officials implementing it. At the end of last year, an 83-page document on the Croatian draft strategic plan for agriculture was reached at the Ministry of Agriculture, hence a key document for the withdrawal of funds from the EU in the period from 2023 to 2027, and now the penalty for which Croatia's agriculture could remain without 230 million kuna, which is not even a small amount of money for poor Croatian farmers anyway. In an 83-page document, the European Commission primarily resented Croatia for not placing a clear enough emphasis on the parts of the Green Plan as set out in the Commission's recommendations issued in December 2020, calling for the 2030 Union objectives set out in the EU's "From Fields to Table" and the Biodiversity Strategy. The European Commission considers that it is not well set to achieve environmental and climate objectives and to move towards more sustainable practices. Continuity is shown, and these ambitions need to be increased, and a broader aspect of the benefits for the eco-system needs to be covered, which will then become the basis for a productive and profitable agricultural sector. I can't help but wonder if it's fair for farmers who are burdened in 1001 ways that have made it impossible to access European money, who have warned all this time about the indifference and irregularities on their backs, to carry out the burden of errors that makes the administration incompetent and corrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u83743	Thank you. We're going to the 3rd debate, dear colleague Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-30-0.u83744	Ladies and gentlemen, the diesel in Croatia is more expensive by several Eurocents than in Austria, and for as much as 3.5 kuna is more expensive than in Hungary, and as we know, wages did not increase in Croatia, although during 2020. and the beginning of the pandemic in various social areas has been significantly reduced. So Croatian citizens are exposed to hits on their standard much more than, for example, Hungarians or Austrians. If the Croatian government asks itself a question, not only the government but also the media and key political forces, as do Croatian citizens. Unfortunately, Plenkovic and his structures are not interested in how an ordinary man lives, they care that the corruption status quo is not changed so that the small group is rich, and the vast majority of the people are disbursed, and they are forced to serve this group of privileged usurpators because Prime Minister Plenkovic and key politicians in Croatia show the state of Croatia in an irrational way to ask ourselves whether we live in the same country at all and whether Plenkovic and his helpers are self-aware and aware of what they say, do these people know how they live, for example. a teacher in Zagreb who earns 6 thousand kunas, if he pays the rent of 400 euros, has one or two children, wonders if these structures live in that teacher's life, whether the ruling structures know that the vast majority of honest Croatian citizens are basically living on the edge of poverty. What is the reason for this unacceptable condition? The reason is next, Croatians have structures that do not live in Croatia, and they are not interested in the life of the Croatian man at all. Unlike Croatia, Hungary and Austria take care of their countries and peoples and in these troubled turbulence times, they align their international obligations with their own national interests. Our problem is that the ruling structures in Croatia are not in position because they are best or because they are valuable and smart, not because they are chosen from non-transparent corrupt structures in order for Croatia to be legally blocked by the state in which laws are applied rigorously to ordinary mortals, and for the selected usurpering summit are not applied at all because prices are high because taxes are being stolen, because the state property is given in vain because if Croatia comes from Minister Paladene's company for the Kupari project 174 thousand euros instead of 5 million euros, then it is clear that there are more than 30 million kuna missing in the Treasury annually. If Entrepreneur Tedeschi, Plenkovic's friend with identical ideological south-deviations washes, or does not pay a tax of 3 million euros, and this is determined by the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the DORH does nothing to charge that tax and fine of the perpetrators, then that means that millions of kunas did not enter the state register. So this regimeal tycoon and the proven tax evasion act as a successful entrepreneur in whose system Croatian pension funds invest in hundreds of millions of kunas. Did that gentleman win any new markets or make an original business step? No, but his system is a platform for the care of various dubious characters, his associate is former head of Croatia Airlines, Ivica Misetic, whose daughter is the head of Prime Minister Plenkovic's office. His associate is Krešimir Starcevic, a person who directly participated in the abduction of Croatia's insurance, with Croatia damaged for a minimum of 3.45 billion kuna. Except that they are obviously non-transparently bound, they are also extremely insolent. Thus certain Neven Vrankovic, in the case of Tedeschi, and this Vrankovic, by the 90th, was a southern youth, and then hid in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so as not to go to the Homeland War, has a monthly salary of 260,000 kuna. You've heard very well, 260,000 kunas. Indeed, incompetent children of communism act as world managers and are essentially incompetent and unempathic causes of all Croatian problems. Ladies and gentlemen, the message is clear. Those who are paid to manage the Croatian state are insensitive to the real problems of Croatian citizens. They have neither vision nor knowledge and brought the beautiful state of Croatia to a beggar stick. The only thing they do successfully is manipulate and control the media. These shameful and corrupt media, however, by order of the authorities, impose a false thesis in the Croatian public that Croatia cannot be known and cannot be organised as a fair and successful state in which laws are respected. Pure lie and deception. I am telling them that we will very quickly disabling and disabling this lie, that we will arrange Croatia as a successful European state. Unfortunately, these structures but also the joy of Croatian citizens for thieving and corruption will be answered in Croatia and no one will be above the law and Croatia will be arranged and taxes will be lower and wages will be significantly higher and Croats will return to Croatia and will not have to move to live a normal life.
