ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u82890	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good morning! In accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the The proposal for a supplement has been submitted by electronic means. I would point out that point 8 is to be included in the session agenda under Article 242(5). Rules of Procedure. It is an objection against the strict distance measure from the meeting of the Croatian Assembly of Representatives of Kreša Beljak. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of the written objections to the proposal to supplement the agenda have not been established that the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 10th session. Furthermore, before we move on to today’s work on the basis of Article 247. I would like to propose to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament that we conduct a united debate on two new points of the agenda due to well-known circumstances. The point we should have discussed today as the second will not be because automation has been removed from the agenda and debate, and we will discuss instead the proposal for a strategy for developing official statistics of the Republic of Croatia from 2021 to 2030. And a proposal for a programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2021 to 2027. Do you agree with that proposal? If there are no objections to those points, we will conduct a united debate. Now we're moving on to taking a stand. The first is the honorary colleague Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u82950	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. In the Croatian Parliament, we often discuss topics that may not be so important at first sight. Sometimes we discuss really trivial things, so often the media because they don't have more important issues of trivial things put into focus, so they actually raise society in one way that they shouldn't. And there are important topics, key topics that are not spoken of. I've already talked about this subject a few weeks ago, today I have to talk unfortunately I'll say again and it's about the situation in Eastern Europe, it's about the situation in Ukraine. So, World War III a few weeks ago, months or years ago seemed like science fiction. I'm listening to serious commentators on the radio this morning, serious analysts talking about the possibility of that scenario. I'm going to repeat World War III. So it's not about science fiction, it's about something that's a real real threat. This threat is happening in Eastern Europe, and that is where the focus is. What I believe you all know, and even the Croatian media who often deal with trivias have heard the speech of Vladimir Putin, perhaps one of the most important speeches in the history of modern technologies, I will not tell humanity because there was probably once more important, fateful speeches. But a speech that would definitely be better marked by the 21st century and the entire future of mankind. What I believe you all know, and I will mention tens and hundreds of thousands of Russian soldiers are now entering Ukraine, now entering Ukraine. It's thousands of tanks, multiple rocket launchers, helicopters landing on the territory of the independent state of Ukraine. I will repeat the independent, the independent, the sovereign. I don't have any connotations, Mrs. Kekin. And it's not funny, pal. I know that perhaps given the party you represent, you may have some sympathy for the Russians and their politics, but what happens to an independent, independent sovereign state, and that Ukraine is not funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u82951	Just a little colleague Zekanovic. My colleagues and colleagues, I think you're misbehaving. So you'll be talking soon and some of you will then the others will laugh. Come on, please! Here's my colleague Zekanovic!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u82952	So just like your political mentor Zoran Milanovic did what no statesman in Europe has done, it is only similar to his reaction to President Venezuela. Of course, you and your colleagues, Grbin and you, colleagues Kekin and others, will behave in a similar way and side with one who should not be sided, which is Russia at the moment. So we're in the NATO alliance you liked it, Mr. Milanovic and your colleague, the Grbina. We are in the NATO alliance and it's not funny what's going on in Ukraine, it's not funny. For even worse cataclysm or tragedy threatens the Ukrainian people in '91. A year.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u82996	We're going to the seventh debate. It's up to the esteemed colleague Bartulic, the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u82997	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. With much of what we have already heard we can agree, but many of our people have voted in a way and left Croatia, they could no longer survive in this country for known reasons and are unfortunately in a large number outside our country where they went to survive economically. So that's one way of answering the people to this state. But I'm going to talk a little bit today about servant mentality and unfortunately that mentality of the winners we lost after the Homeland War, so I'm going to remind you. In almost impossible circumstances, we have managed to defend the country, free the country and create the state, and today there is no sign of that triumphant mentality. Maybe there's still one among our athletes, football players, they can show it in the field. Unfortunately, however, there is no such thing in high policy, and the price is increasing. So Father of Homeland Ante Starcevic said the people who are always looking for a protector are not worthy of freedom. Now the question is, what are we doing with our own country that we've bloody acquired, how is it managed? We were supposed to discuss former Minister Horvat today. I am sorry that this debate will not take place, but I have asked the question before. No matter who the minister things will go on as they've gone by now. So, unfortunately, I will repeat a dysfunctional public administration that is unable to respond to the real needs of our citizens. What we've got extensions is actually more of a sign of weakness than strength. So the question arises when the prime minister has already spent a significant part of political capital in Brussels, which will be next time he needs something. So, things stand, and they can't be made, no one can make them beautiful. Unfortunately, we see the ease of sharing taxpayers' money. So we still have parallel realities. One that applies to officials, for politicians at all levels from local to central authorities who manage money like they're falling from the sky and they're not aware how ordinary people live, they're not aware. And it's worth it all the way to Brussels, it's not just one exceptional situation in Croatia. It may be even stronger to feel what's going up. So, I'd say that with all this going on, very big stuff is happening, and we don't pay any attention to it, because we're focused on day affairs, which is kind of logical. However, we have a situation that recently sold a Russian bank, Sberbank, in Croatia. It is one acquisition run by Serbian entrepreneur Miodrag Kostic. And now the question arises as to how he views Croatian culture, whether he thinks alike as in Serbia when they want to and want to continue to do Dubrovnik writers as their own. Does he have an understanding for our people and everything Croatia has been through in the Homeland War. So the question arises, we know who is in power in Croatia, we see it every day. And the question is, who really runs our country? Who really runs our country? These days a private television house has been sold too, the new owner is a PPF group, who are these people, do they know how to distinguish Croatia from Slovenia, is there any understanding of our customs, about Croatian identity, who are these people? Today they will manage Croatia and create a public change in our country. No one asks these questions because we are simply in this swamp of everyday where it is hard to find now and the new minister, the pool of human beings is all shallow and the people, my people, keep an eye on what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u82998	Thank you. We are going to the third debate, dear colleague Sacic on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83050	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public, here's a little bit of a pick-up from the memory of 1.3, 2.3 is getting closer to us, it was '91. The first, first such dramatic, exceptional one circumstance Croatian defenders met for the first time and we police officers met with one armed force JNA, so-called JNA and Chetnic formations in the Pakrac area, where we first experienced what no one had in mind, we heard here we now wonder if it would be 3. The World War, then almost none of us believed, our officers that there might be a war and that in the territory of Croatia and in the '90s, '91. There could have been a shooting, a bomb, a machine gun, and we've experienced 1.3.'91, 2.3.'91. A year. And by that impression I remember this, we were terrible, at least I was terrified, scared, many others until we, we didn't believe it was happening, but over time we adapted to it and thank God I survived, defended, freed ourselves. However, at the most difficult times this struggle for our freedom of the country always, always for our Croatian defenders colleagues and colleagues, it was our warriors to fight for good Croatia, for, for, for Croatia that will be like Switzerland, for, we will endure all these sacrifices and Veleb and evil both Vukovar and Dubrovnik, but it will be good, it will be extremely good to live in that country because it has everything. It led us, it carried us, we believed in it terriblely, and we actually watched through that future of ours and said it was worth it, it's worth the sacrifice for there, for our children for the family. However, here today, today we have a situation in 2022, we have set up a Constitution, we have defended everything, etc. But we have a position that unfortunately our democratic institutions, our commissions of anti-corruption that are in charge at all levels, primarily politicians not to steal, not to corrupt, not to abuse their positions and positions, to protect national wealth, they did not do so. Let's be realistic and admit everyone who's been in this assembly longer than I've been 30 years. And the more you do politics, the more you fail the exam, the more democracy has given you tools you didn't know, you didn't want to, you shouldn't have used. Today we have one single option, it's, it's a terrible devastating finding that I'm about to say, our only chance as a society to survive today's DORH democracy, meaning the state's attorney's office and the crime police, we need to strengthen them maximum, strengthen them human, financially, in any other way materially technical because they are our only now and last defense of corruption. We are obviously not able to defend political corruption in this consolidation of relations, and corruption is choking our Croatia, it is destroying it. So when we have, when we have the opportunity to hear a few days ago, that the ruling politicians are calling and calling for order by the state's attorney of the Republic of Croatia that why she arrested someone, it's the twilight of every reasonable and democratic and legal state and violation of constitutional principles. That's what I as a graduate lawyer can't figure out if all of us students in the second, third year we learned what to say to the courts, which we can't say to the state's attorneys. Therefore, state attorneys at all levels do your job maximum, you are our only chance to save Croatia, as it is in countries, European countries, as it was in Italy, as it was in the United States when the FBI told Bill Clinton the President of the United States, we will choose... Let's see if it's on Monica's dress, Monica Levinsky. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we today have to get state lawyers with your help and help to get things to the level so that the constitution and the law of the Republic of Croatia are finally respected. It is unacceptable if any of you have prevented law enforcement because Milosevic Boris is the SDSS Deputy Prime Minister. You cannot do this, we support you, you defend Croatia, you are our only hope. The DORH democracy after democracy is for the Croats the only salvation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83051	Thank you very much. Let's move on, colleague Posavec Krivec on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83116	Dear President HS, esteemed colleagues and respected colleagues. And what to say now, do you say good morning, whether to say good day or perhaps it is best to say good night Croatia. What is happening to us, should we change the slogans that we are famous for in the world, should we boast that Croatia is a special single country, a country where corruption reigns? People, is it possible, is it possible that we have come to the stage that corruption has taken over all the pores of Croatian society, but that corruption has now entered what should be the honor and dignity of a state, has entered the government. She hasn't come in now, it's pretty clear and obvious that this corruption has been there for a long time. Corruption in a way not only to take what is not yours, not just to make public in such a way as to have private, not just to trade influence, corruption today is from the lowest to the highest level of impediment in this society. It is difficult to hear in the Croatian Parliament, but it is our obligation and it is our task to talk about it, we must do so today even though there is no point on the agenda today that we all expected together, and that is the point on the replacement of Minister Horvat. But that won't stop us, I'm sure that the opposition won't prevent any point of the agenda from pointing to what's the problem of this society, and the problem of this society comes from the highest positions, springing from law-abiding, unfortunately from members of this government, coming from the HDZ. I am ashamed as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia that I must say it here in my Parliament, but it is a fact. These are no longer media speculations, as the state's independent institutions have said, they say in continuum. Maybe, maybe here, I'll stick to that fence, too, that maybe we should let the institutions do their job, not to prejudge, but unfortunately, the impression is not good. Why am I saying that? So my people since 19 October 2016 when the 14th Council of Government was established, and under the leadership of today's Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, only Tomislav Ćorić, Zdravko Marić, Tomo Medved, Oleg Butković and Nina Obulen Koržinek remained in the Ban Courts. All other ministers since then have not survived since the election of Prime Minister Plenkovic with the support of coalition partners. They were removed or left 22, 15 were completely replaced. The symbol is in this number 15 when we know that today's government of the Republic of Croatia has 16 resors, there are 16 ministers, we can say that Andrej Plenkovic has replaced the Prime Minister with a complete council of government and has done so, let's face it, without a choice. And because he did it without a choice he lost his legitimacy, this government lost its legitimacy. And she passed it, but she found the chips, remember that situation, the last government survived thanks to the chips. And what chips? Unfortunately for the harvesters who changed their minds, who had an ideological opinion and who had changed their loyalty, it was these tokens that were based on personal benefit, and for us it was extremely, extremely embarrassing. That's why the Social Democrats have been following up on Saturday all this time, and this affair is about what advocates a progressive opposition, which is that the mandate should be returned to the people, that it should go to early elections, that cards should be mixed and that this Croatian people should once again choose those they consider worthy of lead them into a better future. In a better future without corruption because is it not a shame for colleagues and colleagues, that according to studies of corruption, that, according to studies of all that is negative, Croatia is among the first Member States? Isn't it a shame that we're always on the ladders of the worst we're among the first? And according to what should be progressive, we are always somewhere at the bottom of the EU. It's our last time to change that, because if we continue this political shift, we won't even have a renewal. but we won't even have a successful EU member. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83188	Now it's time for a colleague of the Dark Taritash on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83189	Thank you very much. The Honorable president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. On Friday, so five days ago, we expected that today will be the day when we are here in the assembly discussing the impeachment of Minister Horvat for incompetence, ignorance and slowness, because it was quite obvious that he was completely incompetent to carry out any renewal after the earthquake and that he would not be headed by the renewal or O. On Friday, as usual, we ended the debate for that day, from the Secretariat of Parliament became our plan for the debate for the next week, and we went home to prepare for this important debate that was due today, the debate on the incompetence of one minister, but also the inability of the entire government. But Saturday morning came only the day after and the plans fell apart, Minister Horvat was arrested. Another face under a mask that runs through the USKOK fence in Vlaska Street in the back seat of police Ford. And they were all very surprised, no one could have imagined it or predicted it. The prime minister was furious with the state's attorney general. Just to say and not to lie too much, the more experienced or informed in Croatian politics knew or at least assumed that Minister Horvat would not welcome a parliamentary debate about himself. Who could defend that? It was certainly clear to the Prime Minister himself that there was nothing there to defend or justify. One of the reasons why the prime minister was very angry about the arrest of Minister Horvat is that it came just days after something he tried to present as a great success. It is a matter of extending the deadline for the use of money from the Solidarity Fund, it is good that the deadline is extended, but it is not a success, it is only a confirmation of the shame that we have initiated, among other things, the recall of Minister Horvat. In a year, 3% of the funds were used. Otherwise, this whole government reaction to the impeachment proposal is actually ridiculous, I have no other word, unfortunately. To all remarks on the work of the minister, we have received answers that have actually confirmed what we are saying. Yes, procedures are complicated and difficult for citizens, yes, we haven't started a constructive reconstruction, we haven't started a single house, yes, the Renewal Fund didn't serve anything, yes, we haven't used almost anything from the Solidarity Fund. The reconstruction of Zagreb and neighbouring county and Banovina, respectively, is the biggest disgrace of this government, of course along with corruption, and we must not lose sight of it now. The fact that Minister Horvat is no longer in the chair, that the extension of the Fund of Solidarity and that there is no parliamentary debate on the restoration does not change everything together, that people still live in containers and don't know when they will. Typical or any house still doesn't exist. Public buildings remain largely unrenewed even those dangerous in the centre of Zagreb have not been removed, nor have they been rehabilitated, and nothing has changed. It is, that in preparation for the debate Minister Horvato tried to create himself, tried to create the impression that the restoration had begun, all the forces were exerted to make people see what they didn't have, but it soon stopped and things returned to the routine of inaction. The law is still bad and inconclusive. The procedures are still unnecessarily complicated and incomprehensible for the citizens, and that tick of such a Solidarity Fund continues to flow. Just because we got an extension doesn't mean the deadline's gone. And I don't see anything that would suggest that the way you work has changed and that it will now work better and use that money more. So, in five days, everything changed, but nothing really changed, and now we're waiting for a new minister. According to what is announced if the criteria are political mathematics instead of serious expertise as they have already tried, then I can only tell you one thing. I'll see you in a year to discuss the recall of the Minister of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property, but only if he's not arrested before that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83190	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83191	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament was injured by Article 238, the high representative of course speaks about what was being prepared in the impeachment and possible debate for Minister Horvat, I am also sorry that there is no such debate and perhaps she would answer what the consequences of the restoration of Gunja, overpaid squares, overpaid toilet brushes, court over the renovation of the apartment also and conflict of interest on three occasions. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83192	My colleague Murganic, you are being warned, this was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but a replica. We've got more injuries now, Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83193	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. Article 238 was injured, the distinguished parliamentary representative Murganic injured me directly because she said I was speaking from the height. It's well known how high I am to it I couldn't speak at all from heights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83194	Okay, you're getting a warning, too, given that it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now let's go, fellow Whitey, here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure, please. Here's your colleague, Whitey.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 238 was injured, you hurt him because despite what you say you have the same criteria, you don't have them. So, you didn't have them either personally but Mr. Knight Reiner to me the other day when he interrupted me and in one sentence gave me 3 warnings and exclusion, today you also made colleagues to Vrkljan, and you didn't make any colleagues to Bačić, nor to a colleague Murganic, nor now Anki Mrak Taritash. Thank you very much for your warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83196	Now, look, you've said it all the way down to the end, and everyone who spoke today said it all the way down to the end and a colleague of Dark Taritash. I didn't warn my colleagues about what he was saying, but because he was speaking from here, not from his place, and he didn't want to move, he didn't want to hurt the Rules of Procedure, and those were the reasons for the warning. And you know for yourself that every time I start giving warnings during a speech, I warn you when it starts to lose control, when things get out of hand, I warn the Rules of Procedure, but never like this to the first one that I don't let anyone finish their thought. ... Now you've talked all the way. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] 8th debate on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, dear colleague Kekin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83255	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. It's only been two months since I've been standing here, and I've listed all the affairs of Plenkovic's ministers, so the ministers of the new HDZ, that at the end of my list, the president of the assembly, he's funny enough to throw me, colleague Kekin, so it's not all so gray. After barely two months in the light of the latest weekends of affairs that rock the government and Croatia all I can ask him is, has the Honorable President changed at least a little bit? For the rest of us...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83256	I'll tell you later.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83257	...thank you, for the rest of us, it's been quite dark for a long time, and with new affairs and your answers to them, it's not just the bright future that we've had, it's not just our perspective and our faith in the better tomorrow, but we've had a dark and healthy mind while we're in infidelity following the incredible mental acrobatics that you're trying to justify the purpose and functionality of this government. So we're following up on how you're having fun with the attacks on the judicial institutions, listening to you scolding over the timing of the arrest, doubting whether or not Minister Horvat should be replaced at all, you're not quite sure, then from the service and gesture to the coalition partners for the minister of exactly the rest of the two years. you do not succeed in your most important task you are offering a man who has no reference and who the public mostly knows only by living in the most expensive apartment of all officials, then having fun with your coalition partners getting up bravely against that same man, and all in order not to talk about the essence, which does not make up for the former Minister Horvat who should leave anyway because he has failed to do his main task, but I don't think he would do it any worse than he does in the room of the famous in Remetinac. However, this scam you're trying to serve us, so the idea that the shift of Minister Horvat is a solution, that fairy tale that should convince us it's an acute inflammation, some toothache you're going to solve by pulling out a tooth and putting on a more or less appropriate implant no longer passes you. So, as you assure us that the pains of your government are toothache, appendicitis, infection, something that may be painful and unpleasant, but easily resolute, locally, you know that's the only part we solve. That doesn't work anymore. Your government's disease is chronic and severe, your government's disease is called corruption and it's long ago metastasized, but it's incurable, and we hope it's finally in the terminal phase. In fact, Minister Horvat's shift, and soon, Aladrovic, perhaps Coric, has some more to bet on, I don't know if you're aware, the most read portals have opened the bookies, so anyone can vote for their future retrieval favorite. Those shifts are pointless. We have watched this film 15 times before, we have watched bold moves in the fight against corruption through the shifts of Martina Dalic, Gabriela Žalac, Goran Marić, Milan Kujundzic, Lovre Kuščević, Tomislav Tolusic, Damir Krstičević, Pave Barisic, the shifts you are trying to clean HDZ of corruption are as if you are trying to clean cancer with cancer, this is not how it works. And that is why it is time to discuss early elections because every new day with this government is to avoid necessarily necessary procedures to survive. Namely, to make a check when we move away from the sugar wadding and pink unicorns you trick us into saying that for Croatian citizens, the times are difficult to shape by pandemics and earthquakes are more difficult than they should be because you are engaged in the development of corrupt models rather than in the development of this country, you are dealing with their branching, their rooting and their metastasizing. We've seen this on a series of examples, and the latest episode that seems to have started since the wind power affair, the affair that we talked about in 2020 when we mentioned ministers who are now being mentioned and who are still sitting in your government, we don't know, even though it just underlines what's clear, there's no treatment, no cure, no recovery, with you I'm afraid there's no healing, there's no rescue for this society until you're out of power. With you to turn to your rhetoric and your references to the president who likes to quote Croatian musicians, so I'm sure you'll recognize this too, with you here, there, there is no help. It's time for an early election.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83258	I won't say anything. Here's a colleague of Miletic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83338	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Jandrokovic, the esteemed Mr. Bukarica, respected colleagues and colleagues, while the arrested Minister Horvat will one day activate his parliamentary mandate to receive 6 months of full pay, while Zlata Hrvoj Šipek, the chief state attorney with his hands, all the holes on the ship Croatian that lets go, whoever puts his hand water goes there, there the hole, so while she's struggling to patch up everything and can't, can't as long as she's in multitasking people wonder if you have any shame. So, the citizen of the Republic of Croatia has asked me on my profile, do you have any shame? Now I will ask you citizens of the Republic of Croatia, if you have any shame, you are responsible, you are the ones who bring us here, you are them, we are the picture here in the Croatian Parliament we are your picture, exactly as we are, with our faults, with our wounds, with our outbursts, with our mafia structures, with our evil, with our unsuspecting, with our love. You know exactly what I'm not going to say to you, you're guilty, you're responsible for all of what we've got here, in 30 years for robbing our country, for 30 years for flooding their chests. From drilling in the name of holy patriotism, and then filling their pockets, as well as those who played in the name of Jesus Christ, these from my yard, and again the authorities are courting, and the bishops when they have to speak and the priests when they have to speak more clearly against corruption and the pastors when they have to shout and the imams when they have to speak and the rabbis when they have to shout, it's responsibility for all of us, isn't it? From us parents who raise our children, how we raise our children to be honest, righteous, to fight, never to participate in any corruption in nepotism. The Croatian people are responsible, and the most responsible are those who sleep at home. You heroes of the living room, the hoodlums, the heroes of the living room who don't go to the election, and then you make us have this here today. So shut up, shut up, please! And when the election comes, then show everything you should be responsible citizens to show. Sin is forgiven, corruption will not be forgiven! She needs first of all to be cured. According to Pope Frane, corruption is not a collection of sins no matter how severe, and it is not one of such vices of the heart. Corruption is a qualitatively different evil. A corrupt man is not aware of his condition, becoming a disease for society. Corruption is a spider that spreads by imposing complicity. Says Pope Francis corruption is the weeds of our time, attacking politics, economics, society, threats and churches. A corrupt person is a person who sends out the unpleasant smell of a rotten heart, a scent that is based on exploitation, destruction, social injustice and lack of services to people, one that is rooted in slavery, carelessness for cities, for general good, for nature. Corruption is the most common speech of the mob, no matter what suits they wear. Well, in fact, the mob is wearing suits and ties. A process of death that interrupts the co-existence of humans, supports crime and ultimately destroys man. Corruption is a metastases, a metastasy that attacks the inner state of the person, and then spills on the whole society. Corruption stinks, Pope Francis pointed out. A corrupt person is a person who sends out an unpleasant smell, and he's based on everything that's wrong. Croatian people, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it's your fault. I point that finger at you, it's your fault that you're sitting at home, because you're heroes of the living room, because you're strong on words on social networks, and when elections come. What? Therefore, all that we have today I clap to you, you are the co-responsibility we have in Croatia, and what we might have. There's your biggest responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83406	As 11 will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague of the Grbins, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83407	Dear colleagues and colleagues, a member of the government of the Republic of Croatia was arrested on Saturday, during his term of office as minister. For the first time in over 20 years. The vice-president of the government is now officially being investigated, against the current vice-president of the government. And what is Prime Minister Plenkovic's reaction to the charges against the state's attorney's office. No responsibility, no offense over what the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister are putting on the line. Not one single line of what we're doing is wrong, I was wrong. That's not with Plenkovic. And respected colleagues and colleagues and let me read this because I will probably also read someone forget: Rimac, Kuščević, Žalac, Tolusic, Horvat, Milošević yesterday, Aladrović, Ćorić, Vučković. Who else knows the people who'll be on that list tomorrow. This is a respected colleague and fellow taste in the work of Plenkovic's government. And can anyone here imagine that the Prime Minister didn't know anything about it? Can anyone here imagine that a minister has negotiated with an important coalition partner in the government some illegal action without the Prime Minister knowing about it. If that minister then went to the finance minister to increase the budget without the Prime Minister knowing about it. If he didn't know his cap to the floor how he didn't lead his government and how he didn't know what the people around him were doing. But respected colleagues and colleagues who can believe that. As well as the question of who can believe it was only 2018? This is the situation in which Croatia is located today. At the moment of the covid crisis, 15000 dead, the restoration that stands and the ruling cannot agree who will lead it. Well, HDZ doesn't have an adequate man, so that's what HNS offers to Curaya. So you don't have anyone better to offer from your classmates and colleagues? Is that normal? Of course not. And the worst part of all Europe is threatened by war, refugee crisis, price hikes, war. But a war that will have consequences for Croatia, because two banks from the aggressor country are coming from the largest commercial society in Croatia, one of the largest. If they shut down the financial flows, how will we function? Where's the government's response to any of this? He's gone. And why is that? Because the government only cares about who's gonna ring a single minister at five or six in the morning at the door. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Croatia cannot function this way as a state. The democratic frameworks have been violated. Today the opposition has shown quite unique which way to Croatia is and which way Croatia must go. It is clear that the return of democratic legitimacy to institutions is only possible through elections. And we invite you to that election. However, the opposition alone cannot make the decision. If it could, it wouldn't be an opposition. It would be most of them. And that's why I'm sending a special message to HDZ coalition partners. You have a simple choice ahead of you. You must decide whether it is your priority to save the government, Plenkovic and HDZ at this time or whether it is your priority to save Croatia. And respected colleagues rule out each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83408	Thank you. We've got one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83409	Thank you very much, Your Honor. This Regulation shall enter A fellow coat of arms demeans us here as members of this House, saying that we didn't recognize anything. So we ask him here what he recognized with his work? He enters this assembly morally damaged and takes a word on behalf of the SDP club and speaks after what he did, means he takes something that doesn't belong to him. Then he says he'll pay it back because it doesn't belong to him, and my advice is to report to DORH since we've had cases. right from your club abuse of rights [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] who ended up with a conviction. [[Intruder President: Thank you, fellow Boric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83410	You're getting a warning, this was kind of a replica. Let's move on now. It's the HDZ Representatives' Club and counterpart Bacic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83495	Thank you, Mr. President. Last week in Croatia was one of the most Turbulent lately. We first witnessed a package of economic measures that the government of the Republic of Croatia plans to reduce the impact on the standard of our citizens and the health of our entrepreneurs, which would in any case be very strong due to the rise in energy prices on the world market. Another significant event he marked last week was the agreement between Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and the President of the European Commission at a meeting of the European Council that agreed on, and on the basis of a justified, documented, reasoned stance, the Government of the Republic of Croatia allows the extension of the deadline for the use of the funds of the solidarity fund for the restoration of public purpose facilities in the Zagreb earthquake. The third exceptional event was the signing of a contract to complete the construction of the highway from Zagreb to Sisak. But certainly the fact that on Saturday morning, Minister Horvat was detained and arrested was one of the most unpleasant events in the work of the government and this ruling majority. And we at the HDZ Representatives' Club certainly support the work of the state's attorney's office, we cannot go beyond the fact that any minister would serve illegalities in the government. We have clearly defined the zero degree of tolerance for corruption and we insist on it, but we also insist at the same time on the full independence of the state's attorney and judicial authority. I can't forget that less than 3 months have passed that here in HS through a debate on the work of the state's attorney's office of opposition said that such a DORH should be demonstrated because the HDZ's extended arm, the HDZ has its paw on the Croatian judiciary, above all at the DORH, that HDZ is holding the judiciary and the state's attorney for the throat and you have sought through the conclusion that the main state's attorney's shift is due to her incompetence, ignorance and conduct of foreign illegalities at the level of government and HDZ. It is precisely from the fact that this government and HDZ, respecting the constitutional principle of the government's troupe, in no way affects the work of the state's attorney and judiciary in the Republic of Croatia, can testify that the Prime Minister has learned that a minister has been arrested by the time it really happened. I ask you all, could this have happened before, could it have happened at the time of the SDP government because we testified and heard in our own ears that the then Prime Minister, and today the President of the Republic said he was familiar with all the findings and you are wrong when you claim that Andrej Plenkovic, as Prime Minister, had an unremembered attack on the state's attorney, you are wrong. In fact, you're distorting me again from your clear reasons to further influence the state's attorney's office, even the judicial authority by declaring the wrong people before, before the verdict. On Saturday, the prime minister asked the DORH for full compliance with the law not to selectively state that the incriminals would indeed have been convicted before the process was completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83496	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83497	Dear colleagues and colleagues, an officer has been injured. 238, because here is insulted by the dignity and integrity of the parliamentary deputies, I guess by implying that we had forgotten that we had almost recently asked from this same pay phone in this same assembly for the establishment of an investigative commission and for the determination of where the leak information from the investigation came from, and then HDZ had its hands and feet against it. Let's start it and let's find out about our colleagues and colleagues. [[/Agreement: My fellow coat of arms, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83498	Comrade Grbin, you're getting a warning, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now it's time for my colleague, Peovic, come in. HSS and Workers' Front's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83565	Good afternoon. We can talk about HDZ as the third elemental accident. We had a pandemic, we had an earthquake. Here we may be on the verge of a third world war, then a reconstruction of a cold-war environment. But I would warn you why Minister Horvat fell and you all know why he fell. Yeah? 100 to 200000 kuna support to small entrepreneurs, but not in a transparent way, in the way it is done, so by the rules, these are the charges. But in 2018, when Minister Horvat exchanged his messages with his co-worker, where he speaks to him and one of your choices, I will remind you that Oil and oil workers are experiencing agony where all it took to maintain production and to maintain jobs, hundreds of jobs, was a state guarantee of $150,000 to build the last ship. There was no need, there was no will, therefore small entrepreneurs were given without telling by what criteria or without their obvious right to these support. And it's not only bad because someone has chosen, perhaps the secretary here is Minister Horvat to get those 150,000 instead of the oil workers who have moved out of the country today to see that they are selling out for the budding property of the Oval Standard and this single hotel where they live means people who are weaker social status and former oil workers who are going to end up on the road because some retailer bought what was the property of the Oljenik Standard, but not only because some secretary decided that there was someone else there, not the Oilman, but also because colleagues and colleagues do not have the opportunity to carry this economic development, and it is evident that after 30 years that the large business entities such as shipbuilding can carry this economic development, not that we are going down to the bottom of Plenkovic's government. And what I'm trying to tell you is what's been on the wallpaper here the last few days is about the real Al Capone who fell for tax evasion. What Minister Horvat has made a legal path, which is Uljanik, Brodotrogir, Orljav, the last victim of the Broding Institute will be much more dangerous and we will suffer the consequences of all in Croatia much more serious than what is now being put on him. I've heard from Brodotrogir workers who say 12 workers still haven't received any severance, so in all these situations the scenario is the same, restructuring, finding a strategic partner, very quickly means bankruptcy of the company, workers are ending up on the stock market, it hasn't even started to be honest with us during this minister, it's all known before, but then again the same for the state-owned company Orljav. The Orjava workers are literally hungry and sick. Minister Horvat recently said what he was always saying to the Uljannikovs we'll know more next week so they knew him, called the minister next week, nothing happened next week. And the last victim of the Naval Institute. If we want to have this steam revolution that is on everyone's mind, if we want to have this economic development based on science and research the last hour is to save the Shipship Institute where people came to me because that's the last answer to the question I just got from Minister Horvat, why he destroyed the Shipyard Institute, he gave me a series of answers from the fact that it all comes down mainly to the fact that the workers themselves are guilty, that there were loans that were not justified, that there was no market value of the Brodar Institute. First, place the Brodar Institute on the market and declare it to be a market company that must be found on the market, and then, as the owner of that company, you claim that you are not responsible at all, that no one is guilty. Now is the time for the Shipyard Institute to be saved, to save what those HDZ ministers have been doing for years and not just because of these companies, not just because of these workers, but because of all of us colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83602	We're going to the 10th debate on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, dear colleague Daus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83603	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Early elections have no alternative, we can't even close our eyes before what's happened in the last few days. What kind of message would we actually send to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? How do you expect citizens to obey laws if those who have to enforce them violate them? All MPs regardless of political, ideological differences have or have one common obligation, which is that, with the obligation to represent the interests and needs of our citizens and our country, we must take care of the integrity of the most important institutions in Croatia, which is precisely this home, that is HS. The representatives of all of us in HS have been elected by citizens because the citizens have given us trust and therefore we have an obligation to return, slightly said, to let citizens trust in politics, not only in the government but also in this institution in HS, without what is the meaning of everything we do here. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the IDS Club is a position that the responsibility of all of us to citizens exceeds without further interest from individual parties. This refers in particular to both MPs and representatives of the ruling majority who must show political maturity and responsibility and make a once-expected step in our country's political culture because we need stability at this point. Our citizens need, they need to trust in the government, they need a firm hand to be caught, not what's happening lately, especially in these challenging times when the pandemic of the coronaryvirus is still present, when the prices of energy and food are rampant, when the recovery after the earthquake has almost not moved from the dead spot, when the tourist season that is very important in this country at the door. Contrary to this minister's shift, the arrest will eventually follow some other shifts and we will be spinning around forever, which is a film we've been watching for a long time. Citizens who tasked us with representing them in this home want to finally see responsibility, so the IDS Club is convinced that there is no valid alternative in early elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83631	We're going to the 13th, and I think the last debate, colleague Pupovac, is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83632	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. There are people of all religions and nations, of all ideological and political affiliations who use their position and their powers to be guided by social and public morality and personal honesty in everything they do, according to whom their actions are directed, they are legal advisers, assistant ministers, representatives or vice-presidents of the government, they do not abuse their position and their powers, they serve those who are such positions and powers, which have established such positions and powers. They serve them regardless of their religion or nation, ideological or political belief, such people are called Milosevic, Boris Milosevic. There are people of all religions and nations, of all ideological and political affiliations who use their position and their powers to lead the social and public diphtheria of other people and of personal and political interest in everything they do in their political activities and according to everyone their actions are directed at were those party speakers, MPs or presidents of anti-corruption councils. They do not use their positions and powers to truly fight corruption, but to... difamation, even if the facilities were born in the 1990s called Mihajlo, dealt with car repairs and lived in Vukovar. Such people are not called Boris Milosevic. There are people in all times and places, and even in this present time and space, they advocate equality and legality for those whose equality no one cares about and whose legal rights are fewly recognised. Advocating equal living conditions with electricity, water, roads, OGPs, no discrimination on an ethnic, religious or political basis, those who do not have such conditions in some space as most of the space in which members of national minorities live do not have, including Serbs living there. This eliminates not only inequality and illegal discrimination, but also strengthens peace and trust among people of whom many are war victims. People do it, here who do it here and now they're called Milosevic, Boris Milosevic. There are other people in all times and places, even here and now, who advocate righteousness and legality to God, and they do it in such a way as to bully and encourage hatred. Humbling and hating are not only destroying the people they are directed at, but destroying the very possibility of justice and legality, and encouraging hate is easily prompted by others to violence. Such people are not called Boris Milosevic. There are people, and there will always be those who build a society of feelings for another, for his care for tomorrow, for the suffering of today, for the suffering of yesterday, for the care of survival in the Court, for the suffering of the Ovcara, for the suffering of the Ovcara, for such people being where the great, the suffering is heavy, and for the suffering of the terrible. Such people have a feeling for others, such people are called Milosevic, Boris Milosevic. There are people and there will always be them who don't know about the society of feelings, who aren't driven by true feelings for others, their concerns for tomorrow, their suffering in today's and the suffering of yesterday's, whether it's the care of survival in the Lower Lapca, the suffering in Voćin or the loss in Varivods or Grubors. People like that won't be where care is great, suffering is hard, and suffering is creepy. People like that don't have feelings for each other, people like that are called Grmoja, Nikola Grmoja, or Dr. Bribery, Dr. Mito Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83633	Thank you very much. We've got two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, first order of business, fellow Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83634	The Honorable President of the Assembly. We have witnessed a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a violation of constitutional principles, and it is described in the article. 238th century 1th, indent 6, which is a speech that, by its conduct, deviates from the general rules in the assembly. Namely, a colleague of Pupovac has glorified and placed himself here as a basis for the honesty of the man Boris Milosevic, who is under investigation. You had to warn him. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83635	Thank you. If I had warned my colleague, Pupovec, then I'd probably have warned all these previous 12 MPs and MPs, so I'm asking you to put your attitudes here, and that's what you're thinking, and that's it. You're getting a warning. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83636	He's been injured. 238, my colleague Pupovac, I have feelings for every Croatian citizen regardless of his nationality or party preferences, and you have feelings for only the neighbours of Dragana Jeckov who do not meet the criteria in Negoslavci for auto-mechanical shops from the Trpinska cesta in Vukovar. Croatian defenders did not fight for such Croatia in which incentives members will receive [[Intruder President: Thank you very much, dear colleague Grumoja.]] HDZ and SDSS and your close friends... [[The incursion of President: Comrade Grmoe, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83637	/The incursion of the president: You get a warning from your colleague./
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83638	...and neighbors.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83639	Please stick to the line, say it in 30 seconds. You're getting a warning this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Jackov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83640	Dear colleagues and colleagues. He's been injured. 238, a colleague of the Grmoy, of course, unfounded as usual, calls me, and with that, I only have one message. There are those who would arrest Serbs just as they did in the '90s and '91s, with very often happening that after that, their fate was unknown and never found out. Thank God we're in other times and other circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83641	You're getting a warning from a colleague of Jack's, this has nothing to do with what we're talking about today. Choose a reminder or breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83642	He's been injured. 238, I would not arrest anyone but allow independent bodies to arrest corrupt Serbs and many more corrupt Croats, meaning many more corrupt Croats from HDZ and three corrupt Serbs from the SDSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83643	You're getting a warning from your buddy Grumo again. Comrade Deur, please choose a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83644	Thank you, Mr. President. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Jeckov, 238, regarding the '90s, '91. Mrs. Jeckov, you know who committed a crime against the Croatian people, and there were a lot of them from your place. That's one thing. Today in a regulated Croatian state, we have clear laws that will regulate who has sinned against him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83645	My colleague Deur and this was also a replica, so you're getting a warning too. My colleague Jeck, you've been looking again for a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83646	Art. In 238, dear colleague Deur has no collective guilt only individually, only individual to be held accountable. It is also not against to mention investigations that have never been conducted until the end, and as far as Vukovar is concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83647	Comrade Jeckov, you're getting a reassurance, this was also a replica. Comrade Deur, please ask for the same violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83648	Thank you, Mr. President. Injure 238, that you have well said where the Croatian people have suffered one of the greatest crimes, where a crime and genocide has been committed and please at least have a little respect for the victim and the people who killed, destroyed and humiliated.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83649	My colleague Deur and this was a replica, so you're getting a second warning too. Now a colleague named Glavasevic has come forward, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83650	The Honorable President of the Assembly, I think he's hurt. 238, but it should be said that if anywhere we should respect all the victims then this is a place to deny that there was an innocent Serb in Vukovar who were killed is simply a falsification of history, the same as, as it would be forging to say that no crime was committed in Vukovar, let's not do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83651	My colleague Glavasevic, you get a warning, too, and it has nothing to do with the debate we've been having and I don't know why these recent several violations of the Rules of Procedure happened because they went in the wrong direction and took the debate somewhere where it shouldn't have gone. We are going to the 4th debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club for Fair Croatia, a colleague of Vrkljan please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83682	Mr. President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues. Saturday at 6:30 DORH knocked on the door of Minister Horvat and made a spectacular arrest, and one former minister and two current Ministers Milosevic and Aladrovic are mentioned in the story. And what's in common with all these people? It's common that they don't have their professional competences, they haven't made their careers anywhere, they're not people who came to those positions from another workplace where they showed up and showed their qualities. They are very questionable, their reach and their possibilities are very questionable, and the very procedure of their choice is very vague. They are under suspicion that they have spent budget money untransparently, but to me, the more fascinating insolence and perseverance they have been doing so, despite the fact that in the last few years they have been called, so we here in parliament have talked about it. And on that third and Saturday, Zlata Šipek sent a clear message to Prime Minister Plenkovic that his ministers were corrupt, that they were stealing the RS budget or stealing our funds, our money. And what was the reaction? That was one of the worst speeches I've ever seen. Prime Minister Plenkovic, with a trembling voice and his hands were shaking, called the state's attorney to be made public, to show why the timing, to give public clear evidence, firm evidence, and the peak of that is not saying that the prime minister had said that the majority of the parliament had not given support to the Gold or the state's attorney for her work, so how is it possible that she is doing so now? The result of such a policy is the heavy devastation of institutions, the flowering of corruption, crime, nepotism and the decline of the standard of living of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and 240,000 completed, 500,000 emigrated, 150,000 unemployed, and unfortunately, my colleague before me spoke, tens of thousands of suicides of Croatian defenders who almost compromised the very idea of creating a Croatian state brought to the wall and did not unfortunately have another solution. I would refer here to a minister who is also mentioned here, it seems to me that he is a bit in the wind, that is Minister Josip Aladrovic, who is exactly an example of a young man who is 30 years old. Or a year or two more got the chance to be a minister. There's absolutely nothing in his biography that would be worth it if he got such a position. He's neither professionally competent, he's a sloth who's been doing his job with one mistreatment without social intelligence. In fact, a year ago in this same assembly, you and the majority of the Parliament gave him support for the National Refunds Act. I was very pleased at the time, I thought it was an excellent law and then it could be read that what he presented to us was that there are 20,000 families on the verge of existence in Croatia. We all supported it. A year after that, a month ago, the same minister informed us through his channels that out of the 20,000 most endangered Croats that through his system he had found 5,000, 5,000 and 16 million kunas secured managed to spend only 5 million kunas, 4 million kunas, and all these remaining 15,000 most vulnerable families were left without those funds for a year. And on request when I personally asked him why he organized and formed such a ministry that they didn't reach those 15,000 people, he said we put it on the web site and that's where our obligation ended. I call on Prime Minister Plenkovic to act And get people like this out of the system. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83683	I don't think it's entirely incorrect to talk about someone who can't defend ad-hominem like you did to evaluate his human qualities, his intelligence, his social intelligence. I don't know why you think you're right because I don't think it's right. I won't give you a warning, but I don't like you talking about someone who isn't here that way. You can give political assessments against it without having anything and rough you can be strong in terms, but this was below my level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83684	Mr. President, you're not invited to Comment You're politically commenting on my speech. [[Intruder President: Here you are and from there you can.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83685	Comrade Vrkljan please, colleague Vrkljan, please choose your place, raise your breach of the Rules of Procedure You can't talk from here. [[Intruder Vrkljan: You should give damage to the Rules of Procedure.]] Here you go. [[Intruder Vrkljan: Give injuries to the Rules of Procedure, you need correction of false allegations, you need replicas.]] Intruder President: You get your first warning from colleague Vrkljan.. to comment on my political speech. [[Intruder Vrkljan: But you can't...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83686	You're just one of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83687	Here you go, you get a second warning now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83688	... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83689	I'll give you a third warning, please take your seat. ... You're losing your speech for today. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I think I've said everything you had to do to elect a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83690	Thank you, Mr. President. He's been injured. 238. The Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Vrkljan, disrespects other MPs in HS. I would just ask my colleague, Vrkljan, is he the most suitable person who can hold moral sermons here in this assembly, given the fact that the Croatian public and we MPs know how his epilogue ended up with his judicial procedure. At least he was supposed to keep his mouth shut from this, not here to moralize the other MPs in HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u83691	I understand what you're saying, but this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so this was a replica, and you'll get a warning. Now we're going back to our agenda points, first in line, the proposal for a Law on the Register of Persons with Disabilities, a break, let me just, let me finish. - Proposal for a Law on the Register of Persons with Disabilities, First Reading, No. P.Z. No. 244. The proposer shall be the Government under Article. 85. The Constitution and the Art. 172. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. And now, before I say anything to the proposer, I've seen a colleague named Grbin come forward, a colleague of Bencic was before, so here's a colleague of Bencic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93615	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc Club in order to actually discuss with the other opposition or opposition parties once again the situation in which, in fact, the inability of any excessive debate on legislation proposals when we have a situation and a completely unstable government, we're not sure that the government has a majority at this point, we referred as 7 opposition clubs yesterday, so to disbanding the parliament, we have a situation where the active minister is arrested, located in the Remetinac investigative prison, the same minister activated through a lawyer, through a lawyer. [[Intruder: colleagues Bencic]] your parliamentary term to pay six months' wages until... [[Intruder: colleagues Bencic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93616	Comrade Bencic, please, I've turned off your sound, your colleagues Bencic are getting a warning. So you know very well that the break is required, colleague Boris, please, the break is required by the item of the agenda. I let you go, and then you turned it into a political speech with something completely different, so I'm giving you a heads-up. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93617	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I'm looking for a break, but let me just one sentence about what you said. If we're not going to make political speeches in HS, then where are we going? HS is a place where they have to be led...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93618	A fellow coat of arms...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93619	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93620	So now you've had political speeches for 5 minutes and we have free speeches just so you can talk about topics that aren't about the agenda and that every MP and MP has the right to say what they want and you all said, 13 of you were, exactly what you wanted. And now you're telling me that the council needs to discuss all topics, yes, but not at this point. Stanka is wanted on the agenda. It's clearly in the Rules of Procedure that we agreed on, so please stick to that, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93621	That's exactly how Mr. President is connected to the point and connected to the agenda point. We can discuss the points of the agenda in substance, and we can discuss Mr. President and the distinguished colleagues and colleagues from the ruling majority in a procedural manner, and what I will talk about is the procedure, but closely related to the content. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia finished his speech on Saturday with the words business assual. This is an important law, this is an important law, a law that regulates insurance rights, but respected colleagues and colleagues, let's not pretend and fool ourselves that there is a business assual in Croatia at this time. The ruling majority can't agree on who they're going to propose to be minister of the most important portfolio at the moment we have a recovery of 80 billion kuna, and we're pretending this is about business assual.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93622	My fellow coat of arms, come on, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93623	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it cannot be a business assual as ministers are arrested and criminal proceedings against the deputy prime minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93624	Comrade coat of arms, I'm gonna have to give you a heads-up. I ask you not to go any further this way because you are now using the breach of the Rules of Procedure again to give political speeches, looking for a break in a way that is not allowed by the Rules of Procedure, so I call on everyone not to do so. Are you a friend of Raukar's? No, you gave up. My colleague Bencice, then, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93625	Injury. 248th by the chairman. Stanka says during the session, a representative of the club of representatives may once a day request a break for a meeting of the club of representatives. The representative of the club is also obliged to state the reasons why he is seeking a break and a proposal for the length of its duration in the exhibition for no longer than two minutes. The president will approve a break with the fact that he cannot give less than 10 or more than 30 minutes. For reasons of disapproval, the chairperson will not grant a recess for the meeting of the club representatives if the request for a recess is submitted prior to the set agenda and the change to the agenda is not stated anywhere in the Rules of Procedure that the request for a stay must be related precisely to the point on which the next debate is being discussed. So you have injured the Rules of Procedure and we will ask the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure to interpret the application of Article 248. Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93626	We will now find you this one where it is clearly defined in this introductory section when a break is sought because we have done so with the last amendments to the Rules of Procedure, here now the secretary of plenary will find it, so I will tell you, but you can freely address it. It's defined as taking a break. Therefore, it is time for this Rules of Procedure to meet and consult the Club of Representatives on the item of the established agenda of the meeting. So, before you start the attack, read the entire Rules of Procedure, and then you'll probably have a little better arguments than you have now. Therefore, it is time for this Rules of Procedure to meet and consult the Club of Representatives on the item of the established agenda of the meeting. So very clearly and precisely defined what the break is. But you didn't read it, you caught Article 248. Now next to the Rules of Procedure, but first, colleague Lukacic, here you go. Here you go, fellow Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93627	Thank you, Mr. and President. Article 238 has been violated, because my colleague Grbin has not spoken at all about this item of the agenda, so the law that is very important has already used this law, so I'm going to tell people with disabilities to collect I have to say political points and it's not fair and it's not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93628	As a result, I warned my colleagues that this should not be done, you should not have responded either, so you have just repeated what you have already said. Comrade Bencic, here you go again, fellow Bencic, you've been looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93629	That's how I am. So you're right about the chairman, but when we talk about the sitting point, we're not just talking about the point that's today, we're talking about the point that's the point of the session, right? And I have two minutes to explain, and you interrupted me after one to explain at which point of the session, the session is not a Wednesday agenda or Thursday agenda, right? [[Don't be co-workers.]] The session agenda is determined at the beginning of the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93630	Comrade Bencic, come on, you're getting a warning now, please contact this Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, I think it's very clear now that I know that you're a little offsided, so now you're trying to make arguments that aren't very firm to fix your position, but okay, and that's legitimate. Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93631	I believe that you have injured Article 247, 248, 249, with the additions that we have amended and which you have just quoted. Even if you're right about what you're quoting, you're wrong because if a representative on behalf of the club is looking for a break before the start of a certain agenda point in order to hold a meeting of his club can come into doubt what we're actually doing here, what kind of puppet theater we're taking part in, and we need to make a decision whether or not we're even going to participate in this debate on this agenda point while the state is falling apart under corruption. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93632	Comrade Voter, thank you very much. That, there is, for that there is free speech and fellow coat of arms and all of you Sit down, all of you who wanted to say it that way. [[/Intruder: No, no.]] when there was talk here, when this was happening, when this was happening, it was beyond what the Rules of Procedure predicted. [[And that's what they tried to explain.]] Thank you, and now we're going to take a real break of 10 minutes. It's 11:01 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93633	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:12 A.M.]] That you've taken up your line, so I'm asking. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah, okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's get started, shall we? Uh, here it is, so I formally have to ask if the motionary's representative would like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health Zeljko Plazonic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93634	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, respected and respected parliamentary deputies and MPs. Therefore, the Law on the Croatian Register of Persons with Disabilities, which was adopted 20 years ago, and since there has been a series of changes in systems and sources of data on persons with disabilities and informing their official records, or registers, this area should be regulated by the new Law on the Register of Persons with Disabilities. According to UN estimates, the problem of disability is much broader than otherwise thought and what is public perception. According to their data, of the 10 inhabitants of each country, there is at least one to a certain extent a person with disabilities, which would translate mathematical indicators about 10%, and according to my data, or our data, somewhere in Croatia there are about 400 thousand persons with some degree or type of disability. The disability data register is a prerequisite for planning preventive measures, adopting a programme for people with disabilities, which contributes to improving their health and national increase in the life of citizens and the number of lives without disease and without disability. The register is conducted in HZJZ, and it started in 2002 and is a source of epidemiological data for national and international needs and is the basis for checking the status of persons with disabilities. The proposed Law will ensure better coverage of data on persons with disabilities and on the basis of the Register database, as well as what is important, continuous improvement and monitoring of the quality of epidemiological data, and thus speed up the exchange of data with persons with disabilities, through automatic exchange of data and official records and registers, and these systems, which care for persons with disabilities, will be able to build on these data in a simpler way, and to base data and make policies and decisions on this extremely vulnerabilities, as well as the exercise of their rights from the workaround of their responsibilities and thus improve communication between the selection of data by electronic means and the removal of unnecessary administrative procedures that they sometimes know will take too long. Following all of this, we propose the adoption of this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93635	Thank you very much, there are more replicas, the first respected representative of Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93636	Dear Secretary, we know that unfortunately in our country there are multiple criteria for many procedures and for the allocation of free funds, the allocation of incentives to agriculture and the allocation of public procurement jobs, the assignment of state land, etc. Unfortunately, you have introduced persons with disabilities, for persons with disabilities, you have introduced double rules and standards and exceptions, and so on for the exercise of rights under the Law on Croatian defenders of the Homeland War and members of their family, and the Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War, instead of the Office for Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities is carried out by a medical council in the competent Ministry of the Croatian Defence, and their methodology of work is instead of a regulation on art methodologies prescribed by the rules adopted by the Croatian Defence Minister. If that's what you're going to do and when you're going to get it back into the Office of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities so that we have unique rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93637	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93638	I'd say that part is still the second segment, this law that, this law does not cover it. These are not, the disabled of the Homeland War... [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93639	Like this, we can't communicate from the bench except for the speakers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93640	I think you're just the exception of all our citizens who are disabled civilians or military personnel from Homeland Work under this law. It is now left to the Croatian Defence Ministry. ... Not now. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93641	Please, fellow Pavić, let's not get off the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93642	With this law today... the segment of any article of this law... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] di.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93643	Please, please, please, please, the meaning of the replica, the meaning of individual speeches is just to say what you're thinking but not to shout from the bench any speaker was a speaker. What is the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93644	The President-in-Office was injured by Rules of Procedure of Article 238, which is because the secretary is wrong to interpret the law. So the Explicity Act says what's going to be in the register and in one place it says inside that the data on disabled people who are from the Homeland War and their family members will be led differently. So only one piece of information will be handled differently, and everyone will be in that register.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93645	Comrade Pavić, No, no, please, you can't talk. [[Look, I'll let you...]] My colleague Pavić and you and I both know that it was a replica, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, whether the Secretary of State is well interpreting the law, misread the law, knows the law, doesn't know the law, speaks exactly or doesn't speak exactly is not a matter of violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I have to give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93646	I mean what's important, I'll read you this Article 5, if you need...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93647	My colleague, I have not given you my word, please, you cannot answer Plazonic. Uh, distinguished representative Majda Buric, are you giving up on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I hope? Okay, here you go. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93648	In Article 238, the demeaning of parliamentary deputies and MPs, namely fellow counterpart Pavić, has demeaned me as a parliamentary representative, since I have very much insight into the situation and the problem of persons with disabilities and Articles 5 and 7 that you have read it just confirms what State Secretary Plazonic said.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93649	Okay, same, same thing that was a replica you get and you get a warning, let's not do that, let's be parliamentary. We now have a replica of the respected representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93650	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Plazonic, I therefore consider this Law on the Registration of Persons with Disabilities to be an extremely important law. For what? Because it determines both the cause of damage and the type of damage and the diagnosis itself, and all because of further exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities related to the regulation of the status of persons with disabilities. I ask you to tell us more than 20 parameters contained in Article 8 and please tell us more about your large engagement in the KBC of Rijeka, to tell us in fact your experiences and outcomes of the Rijeka KBC related to persons with disabilities, especially under these pandemic conditions. I mean, I have information, and the experience that they are, that they are very good, so I want to actually ask you if that's really true.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93651	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93652	Thank you very much. So here's what I'm going to read to you from these 20 parameters that are going to be entered into the register, is the diagnosis and code damage to functionality according to the international classification of health disability, except for Croatian wartime war people and civilian people from the Homeland War, and peacetime military people and civilian people with disabilities from World War II. So that's what it says in these records. So that's what this is about, they're the exception, it's in the other one. As far as taking care of our disabled people in the area of the Primorsko-Gorskina County and all other related counties, we must say that they in our KBC, which I am the chairman of the Governing Council, have always been the priority groups of our patients, and we are in this '21. over the past pandemic year increased all of their parameters from the total number of patients admitted to the stationary treatment, one-day hospitals of all types from internal, cardiology, surgery to an ambulatory program, which is, say, one-million and one-and-a-half thousand, which means... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93653	Thank you, thank you very much. Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93654	Dear Secretary of State, we are witnessing that today many people with disabilities are forced to repeat art in various systems where they try to exercise their rights, which is certainly not an example of rational resource availability, and is also a burden for this sensitive population. I believe that this Law has missed the possibility of issuing the status of a person with disabilities, i.e. issuing an official certificate on the status of a person with disabilities, because, as this certificate in the future would indeed be applied in all systems where persons with disabilities exercise their rights, such as social, pension, health and other systems, it would certainly greatly rationalise the current mode of work and reduce the burden of the Institute of Skills, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93655	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93656	This Act regulates only the question of the Register of Persons with Disabilities in the Republic of Croatia, who then have in that Register all relevant data to be tried, I believe, when certain operational rules are adopted, mutual communication or administration at all levels to achieve all these rights that you have said. It is, in fact, the intensity of this Law and this Register, that we have everything in one place so that we can then issue one certificate that would serve in all those social needs that such a patient of ours with disabilities should achieve. That's the point and that's the point of this register and this new law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93657	The next replica of the respected MP Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93658	I would like to thank the Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here, you have already stated how this bill intends to ensure better coverage of data on persons with disabilities in the Register database and to improve the quality of epidemiological data on persons with disabilities through automatic exchange from official records of the source of data. We know that we have the Register today and it's managed by HZZ, so my question is what is changing this new bill and what will be brought to people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93659	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93660	So with this new law, first of all, we're going to improve everyone, or we're going to get in one place all of these 20 parameters that are in this article. 8 Not to read them now because it is 20 parameters and we will prevent unnecessary walking, so to speak, our people with disabilities in achieving and obtaining their administrative certificates for any function or any need within our society, and all those related to that part of the administration will be connected, thus exchanging data and then people with disabilities will be able to get everything in one place or in a Croatian institution that will run this new registry that will clearly, then with their IT ability to do so in one place and issue it. That's the point, so the disabled don't walk from one institution to another, but they have it all in one place and they get it all in one procedure, one of these, the request, and then they can exercise all their rights under the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93661	Honorable representative Sablar-Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93662	I would like to thank the Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I agree with what you said. Yes, everything needs to be united, everything needs to be in place, we generally think that, that this law is one progress and that it's good. The only serious grudge, well what colleagues have mentioned is that there is a difference or some are citizens of the first order, others are citizens of the second order, if you are this one, classical, means you belong to persons with disabilities, and you are not from the Homeland War or from World War II or you are the victim of a different position. But let's just ignore it. What I want to ask you. Why not allow the creation of a single document that would be recognised at EU level on disability but now shifts to the system of use of persons with disabilities in the area of mobility given by the EU Commission and is under the authority of the Ministry of Health and the HZJZ, but you respond to the Ombudsman this unique document that our disabled people could use throughout Europe, a pilot project has been implemented, this is all about, in the debate I will talk a little bit more about, why don't you agree to the Advocate's proposal Why don't we have a single document? [[Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, you've gone a little too far in time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93663	...and I didn't look at it in time. Uh, it's my fault. Here's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93664	Now, since this is the first reading, it means that we are still open to all suggestions that can come after the first reading, and then very consciously and I think about it correctly, so if this is an improvement that will allow our disabled to have a simpler, better quality and better way of achieving their rights both in the country and outside the country, then we will adopt and integrate into this legal text, there is no problem. That's why we're here to talk about it, that's why there's one, two, and sometimes a third reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93665	Dear representative Pocrnic-Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93666	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. So the Register of Persons with Disabilities is the central place where records of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia are kept and taken care of by HZJZ. So it includes data from several sources, the Institute of Health, Pensions, Employment, Ministry, Management Departments, County, Hospitals and the like, but they all have an obligation to update the data according to the changes that have been made, and so on. 12th century 1 says that a person not registered in the Register may submit a request to the Public Health Office for registration in the Register. It means that some person who's here, let's say, listens to this and finds out that there's this Registrar, how she's gonna find out if it's registered to the Registry and how it's possible that people with disabilities who's been through all the procedures in any of the previous listed bodies haven't been introduced to the Register so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93667	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93668	So she will probably be interested in whether she is in the Register or not, it will be electronically available, very simple, and if this is a new situation, then whoever gave the status of the disabled, regardless of where the international classification, will inform the Registrar himself that this and that person are listed in the Register and.../incomprehensible/... the person with the disability and it will be delivered to the person himself, that is.../incomprehensible/... one, now I would say the operational part, and the operational part is usually regulated by the rules, not by law so that all operational elements will certainly be incorporated into the regulations to be as operational, simpler and accessible as possible to all persons with disabilities, using and thinking precisely that it is about disabled as a specific category of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93669	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93670	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'm going to ask you a question that I also asked on the Health Committee of your fellow Secretary of State, but those associates didn't know how to answer me, so I guess you'll know. Which IT company supports digital data processing of this register, how much money does it go to annually? Does every office in the county, given that the register has data for each county, do each office have special people or do you have at HZJZ level some number of employees? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93671	I didn't hear the beginning of your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93672	Which IT company supports IT Company [[/Intruding Plazonic: Which company?]] IT Company [[Intruder Reiner: IT company.]] I told the IT company. [[Upadica Plazonić: aha IT company.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93673	Here you go, Your Honor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93674	So I have to admit that I around IT companies can't be obvious, I don't know what it's going to be because I still think it's not the subject of that segment of the IT system in the Department of Public Health, so I don't know. I don't even know how much it costs to admit it because it's usually not my part of the job, I don't deal with procurement and public procurement in this matter, and I don't know about IT technology to be the right person to decide on it, so there are professional services so I don't know how much it costs. But that they're going to have to meet all of our criteria that we set for that platform is undeniable and that's what I'm going to insist on as secretary of state. It's precisely with these basic elements, which is that all of our disabled people are made available to them as simple as possible and as quickly as possible in one single place, that's the point for disabled people that we have as the main selection parameter for all of the IT technologies that we have today, thank God for various possibilities, various degrees of development and perfection.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93675	Dear representative Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93676	Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State. This is the second law in this year that brings something new and good for people with disabilities. I believe that the certificate provided for by this law will indeed be a document that will allow disabled people to exercise their rights in all systems. What's most important is that it says there's someone with disabilities, and I believe that's what it's going to be because people with disabilities expect it. And what I thank to you and the restoring ministry and the Prime Minister who realized that it was necessary with a disabled person, I would say I would carry out the reform, and this is what happens this year. Tell me, is this certificate really going to be that way? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93677	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93678	Thank you. I deeply hope so, but what I would especially point out to all of us, especially to my colleagues who are likely to automatically support me, disability is not a permanent category, it is variable given our age of life and on what grounds disability as such is created. It's dynamic, it has its evolution, according to the deterioration, and rarely has to improve. It is with such a register and tracking it without the participation of disabled people in monitoring that it will be from all segments of the medical profession directly declared to the registry that unnecessary wanderings will be freed and what today and our disabled refuse to, say, get a higher percentage of disability when they knew what the whole process they had to go through in their life to say for 5, 10%. That's the point of this law and, in general, our intentions in law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93679	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93680	Thank you. This disability is not permanent you said, but it is obviously related to how it is acquired and how it is acquired seems to be permanent and unchangeable. It's fascinating to me that we've asked you here a few of us, why disability is acquired in a different way if you're a military invalid or if you're a civilian disabled and then you answer us that's not exactly why they're in the register separated. Well, that's the problem, so that's what we're telling you. Which means Art. 5th century 3. ‘In particular part of the register data on types of damage, codes of disease, related health problems’, etc. are entered. "This is done for wartime wartime wartime disableds and civilian disabled persons from the Homeland War in accordance with regulations", etc., "and these are visual impairments, hearing damage, deafness". Is the damage to vision different given how we acquired it? Is hearing damage different given how we acquired it? Deafness is it different, given how we acquired it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93681	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93682	So I think I've already talked to you about it, I'm not dealing with what's not legal, I'd say quite correctly, how whoever gets the degree of disability if I were to think about it now, then I'd be here one in some other function, not as a secretary of state at the Department of Health. It is important to me that everything that comes from those who are in charge of it registered and diagnosed as a degree of disability be truly in the damage that this person has, and not whether it has come to one or another in any way, that I do not think it matters at all to this law or that we can discuss it in this way. So the law never regulates law abuses, certainly not according to how you acquire disability. And if these are detours, there's probably some reason that's been done so far because you've got that from II. World War II and the Homeland War, etc., etc. is not the same disabled medical work that got in his professional life and the one that got it during the Homeland War or II. World War I etc., etc., there is a difference in the acquisition of disability and categories of disability. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93683	Thank you. The breach of the rules of procedure was raised by respected MP Peovic. What's the damage to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93684	Thank you. The 238th demeaning of MPs and MPs, I honestly don't know if you listened at all to what I told you, so you answer that you're a legalist, so if you're legalist, if you're only interested in the legal side of this law then you just have to ask yourself these questions. Why is this category separate if we talk about degrees and type of disability? So she doesn't have how you said it yourself, anyway, nothing to do with how she got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93685	Thank you, thank you, of course it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. I beg you, let's not abuse that institution. Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93686	Thank you. Mr Secretary, this law of course does not, no, no, it does not regulate these different measures. for different standards towards two types of disability, but you, like all of us, know that this problem exists and that it is generated in changes, amendments to the Law on Defence, and that is, the subject that is related to this law. We all know that anyway. But, well, I'm sure we'll talk about it a lot today, but I'd like to ask you if, which is why you haven't taken advantage of the possibility and whether maybe this is just the first reading, so it still exists, that the register is being entered and the data on the socio-democratic status and, for example, for example. movements in the system of education, work, housing etc., we think that, that such data would also be welcome for, for all rights that disability can... Okay, thanks. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93687	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93688	These data that you have listed, I really think it is not important for this disability register, it is not important, it is not important for me either, but it does not mean that if you suggest it to us as one of the amendments to these public, these discussions that will follow that we cannot at one meeting those who wrote these, this law discuss and discuss and see whether it would be of interest and whether the disabled would finally get something as a positive effect. This is most important, therefore we are open to all possible suggestions that go only in favour of disability because this law is written only for disabled people, and not for us in the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93689	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93690	Thank you, dear Vice President. Your Honor, the register was created on the basis of a unique methodology in the period since 2007. until 2014, from 2014 the skills of persons with disabilities has been implemented by the unique body of art, the institution of art, except for the exercise of the right according to the said Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and the members of their families and the Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War for whom the skills mean they perform medical commissions with the Ministry of the Croatian Defence, as amended in 2021. Therefore, the skills carried out by these medical councils at the Ministry of the Croatian Defence is an expert according to a different methodology than according to the methodology set out in the Regulation on the methods of art, and it is obvious that it is being conducted as a separate part of the actual change of methodology and cannot be applied data from one skill and from another skill in one place. Isn't that actually an indication of how wrong it was to single out art for Croatian defenders outside the art institute and isn't it actually permanent damage to the registry of this and who could actually plan the needs for all disabled people equally?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93691	Thank you, thank you very much, thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93692	I would like you to prove to me that the art of one and the other is not identical to the same thing then we could talk about that there are two ways of applying certain methods of art and classifying art. This is about the international classification, not about who is classifying it, but about international and we as a European state must respect international standards in the skills of all forms of disability, regardless of who is doing it in the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93693	Thank you very much. Now I'd like to. who The violation of the Rules of Procedure was raised by a respected representative, Iljkic Vlasic, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured? [[Intruder: Iljkić Vlasic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93694	Thank you. The violation of 238, in fact, is what you said you would like to prove that it means different art for one and the other group, and that is what it says in the light of the law where it says that skill is performed by medical councils in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Defence Ministry according to the rules adopted by the defence minister, and not by the law on the art methodology for all other persons with disabilities. Read the explanation and see, compare regulations and regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93695	Thank you, thank you very much. This, of course, is nothing hurt in the Rules of Procedure. I ask you once more nicely, I see that almost everyone sitting here or sitting here has received warnings. I'm asking you nicely not to abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's obviously becoming completely pointless because instead of replicating itself, instead of not knowing how to speak for the club, all people are picking up and saying something that doesn't matter. Of course I'm warning my colleague. Thank you very much, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93696	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93697	I'm opening a debate, and on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, the Honorable representative, Urša Raukar Gamulin, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93698	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State therefore supports the adoption of this Law on the Register of Persons with Disabilities which, with the rest, enables insight into the different characteristics of persons with disabilities, but also a simple, simple exchange of necessary data between different bodies of administration and what is most important, will issue certificates of established disability status and at the request of natural persons according to the criteria established by the training methodology, which makes the whole process more administratively simple. But here there are things that can be improved or expanded. In a public debate, the Ombudsman proposed that provisions should also be introduced into this law to allow the issuing of a European identity card for persons with disabilities. It seems necessary to reiterate that she is the attorney-general of the Croatian Parliament for the promotion and protection of human rights. I am now reading the freedoms established by Croatian legislation and international legal acts that Croatia has adopted. It is an institution whose task is to monitor both European and national legislation and its application, so it would be directed with more attention and understanding to accept both the remarks and proposals coming from that side. Therefore, the introduction of a European identity card for persons with disabilities is also provided for in the EU document. Therefore, the Union of Equality, the Strategy on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities for the period 2021 to 2030 but also the project and the National Recovery and Resistance Plan for the period 2021 to 2026 reported by the Republic of Croatia, so it is perfectly logical that the issue of the European Mobility Card should be regulated by a regulation whose adoption should be defined by this Register Act which allows for the collection of all relevant data for persons with disabilities in one place and should constitute a framework for the adoption of strategic documents in the planning of policies for persons with disabilities. In the 2021-30 Disability Rights Strategy, one of the primary objectives is that people with disabilities can move freely the EU regardless of their needs for support, and that they have equal opportunities and equal access to participation in society and the economy for which freedom of movement is one of the primary conditions. This, of course, also ensures their human rights and reduces discrimination against those who are unfortunately exposed to disability. As part of the measures contained in this strategy, the option of free movement and residence is precisely, and the leading initiative is the introduction of a European identity card for persons with disabilities that would be recognised in all Member States by the end of 2023, which means that there is not much time left. In addition, legislative regulation of this issue is a prerequisite for the withdrawal of European funds, it is also specified. The Ombudsman's Office notes that this proposal is also based on their additional consultations with the Agency for Commercial Activities, which reiterated that the prerequisite for the adoption of this card is legal regulation. That proposal also previously discussed with the Croatian Institute of Public Health who agreed with the same body as the body responsible for keeping the register of persons with disabilities. Therefore, there is no valid and convincing reason not to accept this proposal by justifying that this issue should be regulated by law or regulations governing traffic or by some specific law. This, since we have a little time again, would unnecessarily delay and complicate the regulation of this issue, which is to reiterate the precondition for the withdrawal of European funds. Therefore, there is no objective reason why the issue of introducing a European identity card for disabled persons should not be resolved precisely by this law which requires the adoption and regulation of a Regulation on the European identity card for persons with disabilities, which would then, of course, regulate the rules of issue and use of the identity card itself. We hope that by the second reading and the European card for people with disabilities will be included in this text of the law. It is impossible not to underline this time the inequality of civil and war-hazarded persons to which the latest amendments to the Law on Warrants are further contributed, based on different methodologies, as indicated in Article 5 of this proposal and based on various methods of skills for similar damage, they are recognised the rights of different scope. As it has been pointed out repeatedly in the public debate on this bill, this situation is long-term unsustainable, because it is unfair, not solidarity and discriminatory. We also believe that there is a need to reconsider another comment by the Ombudsman for disabled persons that requires that a person with disabilities may request a certified copy of the document on the basis of which the registration was made in the register if that document is a condition for the exercise of the right and if he cannot report it from the holder of the document or otherwise. So here's what we don't think is particularly important to stress that the vehicular counsellor for disabled persons is indeed a person who is in daily contact with these problems and that this remark has come out of this experience, out of practice and is instructed to consider accepting it in a second reading. As I have already said in the replica, I think it would be good to take this opportunity to predict that socio-democratic status, movement in the system of education or work, and so on, but my colleague, therefore, will talk more about it in an individual debate. The Green-Left bloc's final club will support this proposal of the law in first reading, noting the need to reconsider and eventually accept the remarks of the Ombudsman for disabled persons that we have supported and in this debate, as well as other reasoned proposals in the parliamentary debate, in order to ultimately get a law that will facilitate the resolution of the administrative problems of which, of course, depend on the quality of life and better inclusion in all social situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93699	The next club of representatives will be the MOST, and the respected representative Marin Miletic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93700	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Reiner, the respected secretary of state, respected colleagues, colleagues, this one would like to place a few points of emphasis here, and then our Maria Selak will do it a little more taxatively, however, she is all in law and then she will address it even more believe and quality. I'd just like a few things here. First this is definitely moving forward, so step forward and always here when I spoke in the Croatian Parliament, wherever there is a step forward is better than a step back, for example. Is that so, in any case, that part is good, and that's what we at the Most Club can commend. What I think would have been great if we had introduced the same thing, that's the story, that's what my colleague Ursula was talking about before me, so we saw in the strategy that we don't still have that famous EU card and I think it would be very good, so that's one of the leading initiatives, I quote here a document by the end of 2023 that should have introduced a European identity card for people with disabilities who should be recognised in all Member States. This card is based on experience from the pilot of the EU card project for disabled persons carried out in 8 Member States and on a European parking ticket for disabled persons. I'll be saying something else a citizen asks me here, can I ask a public question why here is Ivan Milatić, which is why a civilian 100% disabled person has 1,500 kuna, and civil invalid war also has over 5,000 kuna, so it should be checked so the secretary of state would be good for us people with disabilities to be equally worth it. We should build a system like that. So regardless of what color we wear white, green I don't know red someone else is whether to build a system where people with disabilities are equally valuable to us. And that the state treats them equally and that the state shows them respect in the same way. I have these two examples here the lady is the same representative of the HDZ, who is herself a person with disabilities and is actually the deepest involved, I had two situations that are important, I want to share with the Croatian people, one for whom I have publicly responded now his situation has been resolved, when about two years ago in the city of Rijeka, I was also at the D.A.'s office talking about it and sending e-mails to a person with severe illness for which he was left without both legs, my Rijekan has received the necessary accommodation from the city of 46 stairs, so it led to his apartment from the city of Rijeka, 46 steps man on 2 cruts. So you can't believe that the system can sometimes be cold and there's no focus of man and here's one concrete example means in my river, in my city, local government, a man has fallen into some problems, irrelevantly, he's ended up in a necessary accommodation, a serious disease, so he doesn't have both legs operated, so he has no legs and he's got an apartment of 46 steps. Well, that's what you think Alan Ford is, and if it was some comic books, and now you're gonna read it, you don't know if a man would cry, what would eventually get rid of it, went to some girl's private accommodation, so it's either, but it's inadmissible to me as a state, and then the local government is whether we can be small-minded and see people as numbers. We can't look at people as numbers. The other thing is one of the words when she told me, and the same thing in my Word that a certain part of the institutions treat them, then she tells me to go in the wheelchair with me, and then one 2-3 hours to go after River in the wheelchair, before my policy, so they don't say now there's something she's seen, so before politics doesn't. And I say you know as well as you do what you don't, so it's chaos. So you come to the bank the one from the parking lot and the walk-in, and the town's made it there or the road now so I don't know if I don't know now, but the roads made that water drain and she says we can't go there because if we go there, we'll get up there. And so you really go with the wheelchairs and you roll over, then so many of those things where you can't come into some institutions, into town libraries in some stories where really public transportation should all be adjusted in every way, in every way to people with disabilities. And that's why I believe that as a state of the highest instance, here, of course, by ruling you have a mandate, you're managing the state, you're passing laws, you have 76 pardons if it's 77 hands, so then you're passing laws, but it's very important that we always have a man here in focus. I think it's very important, and that in the end, we don't all of these laws, either, if that's the way it works, but that it's always directed at a man. I personally also have some traumas about this art, because I had a late wife in my family who was going through illnesses, so we went to some art, and I would also recommend that as simple as possible, and I think if you come with papers that you have some serious illness especially if you're operated or something I think it's clear to a little child whether a person can do a job or can't. And then people who are seriously ill and are invited to those commissions by the secretary of state 10 times to come, so that's exactly what you need to meditate on while you go to those skills to keep the peace inside and not get the incentive not to know that being rude is not. So the state must always do everything there is to do through education and through laws and through everything that people who do these art, so brother you know who you have in front of you. If you see in some papers, medical records that this person has this degree of disability, that he can't do something, that he's sick, then don't mortify people, but I don't know some things can be solved today, I guess, through e-mails and everything. We at the MOST Club also think that it was necessary to level this artificiality of the persons of the two disabled groups, that's the story that today is more or less talked about, at least here in the opposition, and these are military and disabled persons whose cause of disability is not related to periods of war because they are currently experts based on different methodologies, and they are recognised the rights of different scales. And we're really holding on, I'm going to be plastic now, maybe citizens when they listen to us, and then when they use waist, there's people who like it, so they use professional expressions, so then. I come to Rijeka and people ask me what you're really thinking, what you're talking about. Because citizens don't know. Well, maybe we should simplify. So, the law is currently looking differently if a civilian has lost both hands in the Homeland War or if he has remained, so a person with disabilities if a man is left with both hands in another situation, and we don't want that. So we want those two groups, so military and disabled people to equalize because people need equal rights. Man is a man, so if there are difficulties and a person has become a person with disabilities, then we hold on to equal rights. This second one is quickly read, 25 pages, so it's nothing special. So we're definitely commending that register that's actually twenty years ago already started the story. Now it stops, agrees properly, we support it. There's been a series of these changes, so then this whole system has actually changed, a system of skills for people with disabilities through the determination of their functional abilities, so that we as a MOST club are pretty open to all my improvements. But I say we hold that this story that the opposition has been telling all morning, and this card is a good thing, so we should go in that direction too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93701	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, a respected representative, Renata Sablar Dračevac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93702	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, my colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed law on the register of disabled persons is a good bill of law, because we know that in the Republic of Croatia we have registered 586153 persons with disabilities. This far goes from the number that the World Health Organization verbalizes where every tenth person should be a person with disabilities. In our current census, this is even more than every fourth person, meaning one to three, and even one to 2.9. I didn't exactly count. It's a big problem, because such a large number of people with disabilities are the product of something. One part of them is from the Homeland War, but a large part of them have, therefore, been granted disability because of various types of illnesses. I can agree with the secretary of state that these aren't permanent conditions somewhere, but somewhere they're color and permanent, so it should be verified, that what unfortunately we can't fix and change, so we consider them permanent and not re-send them to some kind of art. Citizens are thus frustrated, because this self-proceeding disability process is demanding. It requires a lot of time, collecting paper, and so if someone has already received there is no need for permanent states to conduct various re-searches. So here we have in one place all data related to people with disabilities, but what we should certainly be able to issue an official certificate of the status of persons with disabilities. Of course, we also need an EU card that has been implemented as a pilot in eight countries and we see no reason to regulate it with traffic regulations. It has to be united, it has to be solved, and until the second reading we have to have all of that in one place. And that's where I keep the Secretary of State's word that he'll do it. The Republic of Croatia has adopted 2021. Law on the Croatian Register of Persons with Disabilities. As the Law on the Croatian Register of Rooms with Disabilities was passed 20 years ago, there has been a series of changes in the system of data sources on persons with disabilities, information on their official records, registers, and this area needs to be regulated by a new law, which is certainly supported by the Social Democrats club. The register is being conducted at the Croatian Institute of Public Health and started in 2002. It is a source of epidemiological data for national and international needs, and a basis for checking the status of people with disabilities. Data from the register are regularly published on the website of the Institute, but are also available for the purpose of all possible research. This law will ensure better coverage of persons with disabilities in the register database and continuous improvement of the quality of epidemiological data, and speed up the exchange of data for disabled persons through automatic data exchange and official records of registers and data sources. This will improve communication between data by electronic means and remove unnecessary administrative procedures. We'll talk about art later. The availability of relevant data on disability design is a prerequisite for the planning of appropriate preventive measures and for the adoption of a programme for disabled persons. I must look again at the introduction of a European identity card that is not accepted. It means the Strategy on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities for the period from 2021-20230. but also the NPOO for the period from 2021-2026, the Ombudsman warned, familiar with the fact that the introduction of a single document for disabled persons is one of the indicators of monitoring the notified project, hence improving the system of application of the rights of persons with disabilities in the area of mobility. The leading initiative, according to the above-mentioned strategy, is the introduction of a European identity card for persons with disabilities that would be recognised in all Member States. So it is also a prerequisite for the withdrawal of European funds, so we are obliged to regulate whether we intend to withdraw funds from the EU. And now I'd go back to the sorcery that opened up as a problem. It is therefore particularly important to point out that in 2014 the system of skills of disabled persons has been fully amended through the introduction of their functional capacity as prescribed by the Law on the Single Body of Art. Now, we're going back that step, it's not regulated by this law, but this law clearly creates two positions, citizens of one category and citizens of another category or category of lower value. The conditions should be equal, but compensation should be equal, so I suggest that it be brought into line with these laws, for example. The law recently passed by the Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War, as well as the Law on Croatian Defence. As a club, we will support this bill by expecting that until the second reading, even if these eu cards are introduced within the law, and that we will have different categories of citizens is something that needs to be changed anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93703	The next club of MPs will be the HDZ, and Ljubica Lukacic will speak with a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93704	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I said today. This is the second law of this year that brings something new and good for people with disabilities. This law will finally allow people with disabilities to obtain a certificate in one place to prove their disability. This confirmation should allow disabled persons to exercise rights in all systems. After many years, we have come to the conclusion that I would say complete policies for a person with disabilities are reformed, and so this law has come into order because the existing law has been in force for 20 years, and by changing the way art has had to be changed and this law has not been like anything in Croatia since 2014. We have the Law on the Single Body of Art and we have a new way of artificially doing it, so based on the methodology of skill, but the other body is no longer HZMO, but it is the Office for the Skills of Professional Rehabilitation and Persons with Disabilities. So, in this law here I would ask the secretary of state to try to arrange an article until the second reading. 18, which is just talking about this confirmation that we call it another name and that if there is anything else we need to define so that this certificate can indeed be something that can prove it. Based on this confirmation, and when this law enters into force, it is very likely that it will come into effect, and the discussions have already been held, and this has led to the issue of different colors so that not only will it be confirmed, or that people with disabilities should not bear the certificate, but it will be able to prove to the card that they are disabled, but there will still be talks in the future about these cards, so I will not be too long about them today. Persons with disabilities had an interest all in one place, so this is what people with disabilities want not to walk around all systems to get some kind of document or to exercise their right. This is now what we expected, so the confirmation and everything in one place, and on the other hand the artisan in one place, so this is what we wanted, and this certificate will in some way be as a document equal to the solution to the physical damage, and now we will finally know how many persons there are with disabilities, and how many persons with physical damage. I believe HZMO will also run the register of persons with physical impairment. In order for disabled persons to be able to fully participate in all systems, this certificate is needed because more or less in each system must prove their disability. Today's latest data from HZJZ is that in Croatia we have 608,000 people with disabilities, so that's a large number, that's more than it says here, so in this short time we have so much increased the number of people with disabilities. It's a respectable figure that deserves to be taken care of. In every country, and so in Croatia, we are lucky and I have to say here and now here what the Prime Minister really understood and understood, he is a person who quickly realized that as a disabled person has to change a lot of things. When I say a lot of things then it's a series of laws, some of them we've already changed here, and some are just coming in line, so there's every system in question, a series of laws, a series of sublegal acts that need to be changed to equalize opportunities for people with disabilities. So here I am, the secretary of state and your ministry, and I personally thank you, and, of course, the Prime Minister for this being the second of four or maybe even five laws that should be passed in this year, and, as I said, to equalise opportunities for people with disabilities and to sort of improve their lives, and, of course, improve the quality of life so that people with disabilities can say that they live a life worthy of man. I'm sure this law will take us a step further, and by the second reading there's probably still a chance that there might be some doubt if there's clear and IDs like this certificate or maybe something else. The law provides funds for its implementation in the state budget and the HDZ Club will support this law in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93705	The next Club of Representatives will be the Homeland Movement, and the Honorable Representative Davor Dretar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93706	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and distinguished colleagues. I'm going to try to connect in just a few sentences the fact that I'm wearing a pink shirt like today's colleagues and colleagues on both sides of our assembly with today's theme. Unfortunately, peer violence, as well as violence, are sometimes necessary and difficult to hear and lead to this conversation. In 1999, a young athlete who remained 100% disabled was severely beaten at a festival in Karlovac, waiting for justice on 14th, 27th August 2018, and Ivan Mikuljan remained completely blind after brutal beating, so he remained disabled. Unfortunately today is the day of pink T-shirts in which we have to raise awareness of the problems of peer violence among those youngest and among those most vulnerable, but unfortunately also to remind that other than the most severe fatal outcomes sometimes violence ends with disability and that the whole society needs to launch and pass quality laws, but among other things, what is very important about violence primarily needs to be discussed within the family as an absolutely important social segment in which such things can be prevented from ever happening. I apologize to the Honorable Chairman for his little out-of-the-book appearance. As regards the establishment of a register of persons with disabilities, the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement is already here and here in the first reading supports of course absolutely this law. We've seen these 20 databases, or data, that will be the database in the register. We absolutely see among them everything that should be there. The registry will, of course, be in electronic form and we absolutely see no problem. Of course, all we have to do is warn about the respect of the famous GDPR and, of course, I believe that the competent services will be able to implement and protect the security measures of the data sources. In accordance with Article 7 the data sources are the following: HZZ will collect data from the institution responsible for the skills, professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, the institution responsible for compulsory health insurance, the institution responsible for pension insurance, the employment office and the departments responsible for management, education and defenders. Furthermore, from the administrative bodies of the county responsible for education and administrative bodies of the City of Zagreb, as well as the final health institution at the primary, secondary and tertiary level of health care and other users of the personal identification number. This will certainly be a large, extensive and demanding job to hope that those bodies will get the strength to carry out these tasks within existing personnel resources and that the need to deliver and update data to the Institute will not require the creation of new jobs because you know that as far as these so-called jobs are concerned. We've already had too many bureaucratic places. As regards Chapter 4, the use of the data from the register and the period of storage, it is certainly necessary to commend the legal provision on the issue of certificates without compensation to both persons entered in the register and the data sources, but also as referred to in Article 19(3) to other legal and physical persons for the precise purposes. So in the foreseeable future, the register will also be helpful as a database for possible scientific works or other socially useful purposes. It is particularly important that future people with disabilities will be able to obtain a valid confirmation of their status in a simple and effective manner. If this confirmation in the future were indeed applied in all systems where persons with disabilities exercise their rights such as social, pension, health or other systems, it is certain that this would largely rationalise the current mode of work, reduce the burden on the Office of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. We see also today a number of people with disabilities are forced to repeat skills in different systems within which they try to exercise their rights, which is certainly not an example of rational resource availability and, of course, is a burden for this sensitive population. Often over the past few months, we have been discussing the problems of people with disabilities here, I will remind you of course that we have also discussed their full equal right to join the labour market and reminded of the problem with that elemental physical accessibility. So, we also mention the respected colleague Miletic here, the problems with the stairs, and we know for ourselves how difficult these problems are for people with disabilities especially those with difficulty moving or in a wheelchair, so I call on the entire public to help in this very simple way. As regards the introduction of a European card for people with disabilities, we saw within the public debate that the applicant said it was not part of this legislative proposal, but in any case it should be reminded as well as respected colleagues and colleagues reminded here. The objective of this project is to achieve the rights of persons with disabilities in the field of mobility faster and simpler, and to introduce a single document to ensure that persons with disabilities can achieve all mobility rights and, of course, to simplify the administrative environment to the end-user and to increase the availability of interoperable digital public services to persons with disabilities. So, certainly according to modernization, it should go both in any social segment and in the rights and, of course, the possibility of being involved in the society of all persons with disabilities. And lastly, we will point out once again that we agree with everyone here who mentioned that it is an unsustainable state in which two groups of people with disabilities are based on different methodologies and based on different methods of art and the rights of different ranges are recognised for similar damages. We suggest, of course, to the Proposer to consider it a little bit, so that then all together in the second reading, of course, we participate in some final debate in which I believe it would go in the direction that the rights of all are fully equal because at the end of the law are also called rights because all persons of equal disability have equal rights. For the time being, the House Movement Representatives' Club supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93707	On behalf of the SDP representative club, the respected representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93708	Thank you. The Honorable Vice-President, the Honorable State Secretary, fellow MPs and fellow MPs before us is the Proposal for a Law on the Register of Persons with Disabilities, since the current Law on the Register of Persons with Disabilities of 2001 has been in force and since then there have been a series of systematic changes in the records and information of official records. Unfortunately, what the main people with disabilities expected, which is that in one place they will be able to obtain confirmation of their disability is not what the law regulates. Today we hear in the debate that another reading may be about to change in that part, but for now what we have received from that proposal does not stand. According to the General Administrative Procedure Act, such confirmation may be issued by a public law body which keeps records of any recognised right, equalising the opportunities of persons with disabilities also applies to administrative barriers. It should be found that people with disabilities can obtain certificates in a simpler way about their disability to prove their status and who will unite rights and established disability, and that such confirmation is indeed valid for proving the status of persons with disabilities. Although the Institute’s intensities were that one person was united in one place, for all rights there were still separate experts of persons with disabilities for individual rights, whether for children’s allowance, the right to part-time work, social care rights, the pension system. Despite these problems, however, it is good that these changes will contribute to a better information exchange of data from the Institute for Interruption with the Register of Persons with Disabilities. Although there is information that the application has already provided the functionality for the download of requests and medical documentation in electronic form, as well as the delivery of findings and opinions to the body which requested the skills and ensures the rights of users in practice it is not yet so. For example, social care centres continue to send documentation and receive results and opinions in paper form from the craftsman's office. Certainly facilitating and any relief of all administrative barriers is in the interest of persons with disabilities. In order to simplify the process of exercising the rights of persons with disabilities, which is in line with the EU document, the Union of Equality, the Strategy on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities for the period from 2021 to 2030, as well as the NPOO project, improving the system of application of the right of persons with disabilities in the area of mobility, a European identity card should be introduced for persons with disabilities. In order to create the necessary preconditions, the Law on the Register of Persons with Disabilities should provide for and prescribe the adoption of a Regulation on the European identity card for persons with disabilities or to regulate the European card in order to further regulate the rules of issue and use of the identity card itself. This bill does not make it visible, and perhaps until the second reading something in that section changes, which is our proposal. According to HZZ data since September 2021. 586,153 people with disabilities live in Croatia. Today we've heard that this data is 608,000, which means 58% of men and 43% of women. The maximum number of people with disabilities is 45% at the age of 20 to 64, while 44% of people in the age group are over 65. The register of persons with disabilities is conducted in HZZ and started in 2002, and is actually a source of epidemiological data for national and international needs. The changes will certainly contribute to a better analysis of systems that care for people with disabilities in fact for policy making and decision-making on this vulnerable group. On the basis of the register, in fact, of all these people working for years, there has been the application of the international classification of disability and health of the World Health Organization, a vision of the application of this classification in the system and the reform of the methodology has been created, and thus a system of skills for people with disabilities. All this process of developing a new methodology and this big job lasted from 2007 to 2014, and the basic novelty in the approach to the skills methodology in line with the recommendations of the World Health Organization and the international classification of the functioning of disability and health is, in fact, based on the need for a more comprehensive assessment of persons with disabilities, taking into account the functioning of a person rather than solely the type of disability caused. It is therefore good to prescribe this law the data sources of the register from which the data on persons with disabilities are collected in accordance with this amended system of skills that occurred in 2014. through the determination of functional capacity. It means since 2014. The unique body of art performs art for all persons with disabilities and thus until 2021. when new laws are prescribed, the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families and the Law on Civil Victims of the Homeland War for which the jurisdiction of art and art is changed shall be implemented in the medical councils of the Ministry of Croatian, Croatian defenders, and their methodology of work differs from that methodology of the work prescribed by the Regulation on Standards of Art. So the new art methodology was prescribed by the minister's rules. Since the Register of Persons with Disabilities has been associated with the Institute of Engineering for the purpose of expecting, that these committees or medical councils have already been able to exchange data with, with, with the meaning of the Bureau, the Office for the Arts or to provide information in time to the Register for Persons with Disabilities or to wait for this law. But now we see that the law will nevertheless keep these data separate, which is actually not good for uniting data in one place and actually to monitor the needs of people with disabilities in one equal way. In fact, the new law on the regulation of the rights of Croatian defenders and civilian victims was meant to speed up the actions and skills of defenders since these proceedings lasted 2 years. The extraction of defenders has contributed to an increase in the actual inequalities that people with disabilities now have because an artificial system has been organised despite the fact that there has already been an expert training department in the Office and the whole idea of reorganisation of the skills system has also been opposed by the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. However, despite this, the Law was passed, the reorganization of art took place, and now we actually have a problem that methodology does not follow, does not follow, cannot be analysed equally. And then plan further measures and decisions. The register under the new Act is a comprehensive and complete methodologically standardised and updated records of persons with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities, and data are used to ensure transparency, accuracy and consistency, comparability and full data necessary for data analysis of persons with disabilities. This is precisely the purpose of the Register, we expect full implementation of this Act since persons with disabilities are vulnerable group and good records and monitoring can direct policy and make decisions for the welfare of persons with disabilities. Good analysis and collection are also a prerequisite for planning appropriate measures and preventive programmes. The Institute of Public Health regularly drafts reports on people with disabilities, on women with disabilities, but because of what I said, different methodologies will not be able to combine data in one place together to actually follow all indicators of people with disabilities regardless of disability, in which way disability has occurred. Data in these reports to all those who are really good indicators are shown according to the county, so that certain needs can be directed except from national and regional and local policies according to specificities prevailing in individual counties. The importance of the Register is also recognised in the National Equality Plan for Persons with Disabilities of 2021-2027 in the field of research and development. We believe that the new Register Act is necessary, that it will contribute to better data unity, given all legal changes and that we will be able to direct policies for the development of rights and service to disabled persons and that [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The SDP Club supports this Act. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93709	The next club of representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS, and will be spoken by respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93710	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of HS, the esteemed Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So when the subjects of people with disabilities come to this assembly, regardless of whether it's a lawyer's report for the rights of disabled persons, whether it's a series of legal proposals that we get that will improve individual status, we always, regardless of which side of this assembly we sit on, whether it's ruling or opposition, and opposition, we support it. This is one of the laws, just as we will support for the simple reason that we absolutely think that after 20 years it's time to regulate it, so that the Registrar agrees properly, but equally what's important, it's important that when you have good data and when you generally base further on good data, then you can also plan both preventive measures and the adoption of programs and everything else, and it's important that these data are well complex and are in one place. But the debate on this law also requires that a few things be discussed. The first thing he wants to discuss is the following: when we get the lawyer's reports here because we have lawyers, then there's the part where they make certain proposals, they give certain topics, they ask for something to change in certain laws, and then when we ask among other things, which is about a percentage that, that the institutions have listened to you, then we get a very, very small percentage, I think at one point one of the attorneys has said about 20%. And here we have an exact example of how it goes in life and in real life. So, the competent ministry makes a bill, this bill goes into procedure, in the attorney general's procedure points to something that is in my opinion, which is not, which was immediately to be accepted and in the first reading, essentially because it points to something that needs to be done, and now the key issue is the relationship between the ministry and the relationship between the executive authority and the lawyer. The role and significance of the Ombudsman, regardless of whether it is the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, whether it is the Ombudsman, whether it is the Ombudsman for gender equality, they are obliged to warn through their reports on what they did through their work on processes that are in society, something that needs to be changed in laws and something that should be acted on in order to make the laws better, to be more applicable and everything else. And here it's exactly done. And now the key question that was the argument, what was the reason, is that everything someone told you refuses? So we're not talking about a law that has 300 articles, which unites different stories and different problems in it, we're talking about a very simple law, so I'm talking about this type of law where you, in fact, is simply the law, it's simple to read, it's easy to apply, there are 22 provisions until you reach transitional and final provisions. So it wasn't even in the public debate that there were a lot of important and remarks and you get something that's normal, something that's the essence, something that we all support together and that's.../incomprehensible/... that's easy to deal with. I think that actually points to the essence of the problem. It'll be easier for us, it'll be easier when we have a public debate or in the process of passing a law to listen a little bit and see someone who has something to say and say we accept and it's not and it's just not a problem. The other thing I want to point out through this debate is this. So when you're getting ready for this kind of debate, then of course we all love, or I like to talk about data and data and numbers and everything else, and it says that approximately when it comes to countries that on the 10 inhabitants of each country there's about one in a certain way, so one person who is to a certain extent a person with disabilities. And now we're coming to our situation. If there are 3 million 880 000 of us the last data is which is unofficial and official, if, as the predecessors are already instructions of numbers and I don't want to quote them in another decimal but let's say that's 600,000. Then we have one person with disabilities in our six-and-a-half lives, so just share it and see. And now the question is, why is that? What's the problem? What are these specific, what are the consequences? Are there any historical consequences? What is happening here and what is happening here, what are the processes that are in Croatia. On the other hand, you have this situation, and on the other hand, when you look at other laws and other regulations that we bring, where it should be more active, give an opportunity for a person with disabilities to have a normal real life and have a chance to live a real life and then, when, for all the opportunities that some and others have, therefore, and now there is one of the topics that should be discussed and that should consider and see what is specific there. I'll just connect it to something that's very relevant. Take a look at the subject of the crown. We have less and less infected every day, that's a fact. But our death toll from the crown or with the coronus is very weak. So we've come here these days last at 35, 36 or we've been spinning all the time between one bus and people who die every day. Now it's just a question of whether it's that normal bus or the bus upstairs. But it's still 35, 36 people. So some of the experiences that we should get out of this should be why that's the case. I don't think someone should be brought to Mark's square in a ritual egg shoot or I don't know what not. But I think we need to become aware of the facts and see why that is. And the third thing I want to point out is this: there's no forward of us and there's no step up when we always have different ones, so the same theme is the same problem, but we have different niches that we put people in. A person with disabilities is a person with disabilities, but if we have two groups or if we have several groups and if we have several indicators and if it's several ways regulated so it can't, so it's every time we try to have several groups. Then why are we surprised? What are we surprised at in society when we have extreme attitudes? Why are we surprised at the exception? What we are all surprised at together when in this law we have a register of people with disabilities and then clearly in the law says which group and art and everything else is done in another way. Why? Why do we need that? What do we do in a country that has three million 880 000 inhabitants and if the data that has been presented is correct, so if there are 10 people in some other countries, there is one person with disabilities, and there are six, seven people. And then what are we doing and what are we trying to do with it? And what we want to put together a few categories or a few groups or a few valuable or less valuable persons with disabilities. The message is not to do it, the message is not to do it, the message is not to have one register for one group, and the other register for another group. That someone doesn't have two arms, that doesn't have two legs is a fact and goes into the same register and let's help and let's create the conditions that the conditions for school and work are about to have some conditions the same as everyone else. But in a moment, so this law too, this register will only apply to one, but it won't apply to all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93711	Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, the respected representative Katarina Peovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93712	Good afternoon. What should be the basic task of the law? In my opinion, the basic tasks of the law should be to ensure equality. If the question is raised here several times, why not just by this law, but by other laws we have a separate category of disabled people, persons with disabilities, defenders. If we now have the Register Act that will confirm this distinction and some specificity that cannot be from the aspect of health circumstances, then I do not understand how the Secretary of State has been completely ignoring these questions all along. I'll tell you why people are bitter, it's not just about this law. So in the population of pensioners of 1.1 million pensioners, we have pensioners who have over 8,000 kunas just about 3600 such pensioners. In the population of 70,000 veterans, we have over 11,000 who have a pension of more than 8,000 kuna, so people see things as uneven, unequal. And now of course you need this Law on the Register of Persons with Disabilities, but if you and the associations are telling you what I warned you, if the D.A. tells you that you have to change it, that you don't need a special status. So you've answered one question, so it's not just a special status in the acquisition of disability, it's a special status, and it's in the register that it's meant to be a special status. I mean, we're playing a little deaf phone. So we have this art. 5th century 3. which reads "The specific part of the register contains data on types of damage, disease codes, related health problems according to the international classification of diseases according to the Regulation, which provides for a method of art, i.e. HRVI and civilian disabled persons from the Homeland War, in accordance with the rules of methodology and training of Croatian defenders and civilian disabled persons from Homeland Work and that", and now states visual impairment, whether or not the damage is seen in the light of how we acquired it, hearing damage is different from how we acquired it, deafness, damage to voice communication, etc. So if you are warned by associations, they say that we should start not only art, but also that the register does not separate it, meaning the art of two groups of people with disabilities because they are currently expert based on different methodologies and they recognise the rights of different ranges should, of course, level their rights. The attorney general says the rights and fundamentals of disability should be equal for people with disabilities regardless of the cause of disability, and now these parliamentary deputies are telling you the same thing then it is not clear to me that the secretary of state does not see any absolute problems in this, nor does there have a need to justify it, but says disability is not permanent, we need to be fluently approach to this problem. I mean, obviously, it's a permanent inequality if it's not disability. Also on the question of state secretaries who have been asked about the technical conditions of this software that will be obtained, I must say that you are a little modest and you say that I am not engaged in public procurement, you are engaged in staffing at KBC of Rijeka, so I think you might be able to look back at which software will be purchased. I think the question has been asked for a reason because we have experience choosing software in such a way that it suits some groups and that software does everything except what it should do, but it suits someone and gets pretty good money. So some kind of guidance on what at least the criteria would be like to say some kind of decent answer from you to explain to us how the criteria are going to look for it. And since I'm saying you have a lot of experience in humanizing food as a member of the management of the Rijeka KBC and that's exactly the person who runs the technical affairs in KBC of Rijeka, I think you're a man of more interest so we can get that answer to that question from you in which way this software will be obtained. So in short, what's problematic here is that the law doesn't accomplish its basic task, which is equality, equality before the law. So that's what's wrong with many of the laws here that they're actually legalizing lawlessness and giving privileges that some shouldn't have.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93713	We're moving on to individual debates, so the first one will be spoken by respected colleague Ivana Kekin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93714	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary and all MPs. First of all, I welcome the adoption of a new Register Act, given that since 2002, when the first law was passed, the entire methodology of skills skills, and many formal and real changes in the systems that are the sources of data, have occurred. The most important end range for people with disabilities refers to the fact that they will be able to quickly and easily obtain confirmation of their status from the register online, and also that the systems in which they exercise their rights will be able to do so in the same way instead. HZZO is the only authorised institution in the Republic of Croatia that is fully entitled to and registers the status and characteristics related to disability and therefore it is important to prescribe how to use and manipulate such data. We must be aware that as many as 14% of people in the Republic of Croatia have some form and degree of disability and it is important that this significant number of our citizens and citizens are really involved in the community and that they can truly exercise their rights. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to finally apply a multi-sector approach to care and care for people with disabilities because if we want to ensure adoption, but not only adoption but also implementation of appropriate and timely measures in policies to improve the quality of life of persons with disabilities and their families, it is necessary to actively include both the education sector and the health sector and the labour and employment sector and the construction and urban planning sector and the housing sector and the social care sector and the sport and culture sector. And in order for this multi-sectoral cooperation to be successful, it's necessary to be able to monitor the data in fact with all their features. And that's why I'm actually being asked a big question, the register, according to the proposed content, unfortunately doesn't have any extremely important information about socio-demographic status, as it does not bring extremely important information about the movement in the education and work system and about a number of other characteristics related to each person with disabilities. So what we were just talking about is de facto not possible if we don't combine that data. In the process of skills, such data are certainly taken into account and included in the final assessment. I believe that there should be a way of including all relevant characteristics related to the person whose data are entered into the register, and these definitely are not just characteristics related to his health or disability. They're exhaustive, but they're not enough for dynamic tracking. And I'm guessing that the departments in charge are monitoring the data relevant for the exercise of individual rights in their responsibilities, but there's still some kind of multi-sector approach and networking. I will also point out, many have already pointed out this here but that the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which the Republic of Croatia has accepted among the first and signed, advocates equal rights for persons with disabilities, both equal rights with other citizens and equal rights between them in view of the emergence of disability. And yet, in this bill, there is a special law on skills and the evaluation of disability in people with disabilities in the Homeland War. And the question is, why is that? Don't you trust the experts who actually skill out all the other people with disabilities? And once again, I will underline in the end what my colleague Raukar Gamulin was already talking about. This proposal for no good reason gives rise to the introduction of provisions that would allow the issuing of a European identity card of persons with disabilities. There is no valid reason for this to be pointed out again, as the Ombudsman has pointed out. It is necessary to provide for and prescribe the adoption of a regulation on the European identity card for persons with disabilities in order to regulate their rights in more detail, in order to regulate the rules of issue and use of the card and we hope that you will take those remarks into account until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93715	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93716	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you spoke of a multi-sectoral approach with which I agree completely, we are always talking about this interdisciplinary cooperation. We really agree that different data should be incorporated. Among other things, the level of education of persons with disabilities, which is listed among those 20 items, and precisely to make it easier for them to access the labour market, I will speak more about it in an individual debate, but the problem we are facing is the underemployment of persons with disabilities and health institutions. The two of us work in health care, so it's kind of a message to our resolute ministry that it's a little bit more stimulating and actually healthcare institutions so people with disabilities can get as much employment as possible and in the end line so they don't pay for the penalty. What's your comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93717	Dear representative Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93718	Thank you, colleague Maric, for this comment. I agree with you and, however, I believe that it is our ministry, so the Ministry of Health should be the leader in this positive discrimination to say so to a person with disabilities, and I think we have an extremely large amount of room for improvement. I also think that we do not need to invent hot water, to see examples of good practice throughout Europe. Here is also from just my speciality rope, so only when it comes to, so mental patients or people with mental disorders in Croatia unfortunately there are no programs that would allow for positive discrimination in employment, but once they receive their diagnosis they actually fall on the burden of their family and no one de facto cares anymore, and many of them would be functional longer and be very high-quality and useful members of society only when these things are considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93719	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93720	Dear colleagues, we have heard several times today from this pay phone that we expect this law to make the databases of different bodies more accessible, the exchange of data between bodies in the procedures they conduct at the request of persons with disabilities or under official duty, which should simplify procedures for people with disabilities and facilitate the resolution of certain status issues such as proof of disability. I have already asked today, but I am interested in your esteemed opinion as to how this law has missed the possibility of issuing an official certificate on the status of a disabled person because if this certificate were to be applied in the future in all systems in which persons with disabilities exercise their rights as social, pension, health and other systems would certainly, to this extent, rationalise the current mode of work and reduce the burden of the Institute of Skills, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93721	Dear representative Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93722	Thank you very much for your question. So I agree that this bill, fortunately the first reading may be of value to our comments leaves a lot of space to further facilitate people with disabilities to achieve their rights and quality and equal and equal inclusion in the community and ultimately with your proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93723	She will now speak individually to a respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93724	In this presentation, I want to look at two things. The first refers to these specific legislative changes, i.e. the draft Act on the Register of Persons with Disabilities, and the second concerns the current situation which actually raises questions about how the register has worked so far and how we may have these amendments to the rules on enrolment in high school that completely deny the rights of disabled persons. So, as far as the legal changes themselves are concerned, on the basis of what has already been said here, of course, that we too advocate a European identity card for people with disabilities. If we could be so quick to first introduce Covid's confirmation system, I don't see any reason not to join this system, and our up-to-dateness is obviously not a problem when it's in our political interest. Certainly since we are part of the same political space, that we are part of the EU for disabled persons should facilitate access to their rights and at all show their status because they are persons, I come from the Faculty of Philosophy, which are also mobile and also involved in various academic exchanges, and that their exchange should be further encouraged so that such a type of status would certainly make it easier for them to travel to other countries and then their academic development, not to mention anything else about any work space or travel to other countries. However, this section relating to the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, which concerns this Content Regulation, the way data is collected and records are kept in the register of persons with disabilities, I am not prone to rules, we have a problem that often our laws are derrogated and that different rules are passed later on. Therefore, I think it would be more useful to work out a more detailed way of collecting data and keeping records than to introduce separate regulations that we will not be able to discuss and over which we have no control. And now I'm going to get to that part that's up-to-date and that's asking the question of what the register has been up to today. Namely, we are currently talking about strengthening the rights of disabled persons by facilitating access to the register and its electronicization, while we have a regulation on enrolment in high school where an additional point, a minor point for health problems that has been given so far has been lifted. And why is he being abolished? Well, that's why we're getting a key problem here, because so far they've been present even though it's not explained within the rulebook itself, but here it's off the record, the malversions in the sense that you had a situation to say in MIOC two years ago of 200 students 80 have signed up with an additional point for health problems. So what's going on here now? So different parents went to get health problems to ensure that children were enrolled in competitive high school. However, someone was giving that point. HZZ registry has been running since 2002. Since 2014, we have a new system of art. And my question is how is it possible that it is unverified which really has health problems on the basis of which it deserves a point and which should stay on enrolment in high school, and who are those who maneuver with that term in order to obtain additional privileges unjustly and secure enrolment in high school. So the responsibility is with those who betray you. This is on the one hand the Employment Service in the professional orientation of students in the 8th grade based on the recommendations of school doctors and the Institute of Public Health Dr. Andrija Printer. There is a register of people with disabilities since 2002, there is a system of art, and we have a situation that points past controls are obviously awarded without any criteria, points for health problems. How is this problem solved in the system? Is it checked who can't handle giving a point for health problems? Is it checked, is the register quality enough and is it for all the people they need to be in? Or it's simply concluded that we're going to get rid of this point, so there's no problem anymore, and for people with disabilities we'll take care of it some other time. Now that's not the right way to deal with this problem, the register will help but we have problems now in the system that are not solved by these legal changes and that need to be looked at in more detail.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93725	The first replica, the esteemed representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93726	Dear colleagues, the register began to lose its purpose and encountered problems in 2010 when more than 500,000 people with disabilities were recorded. Namely, the unique number of citizens in accordance with the constitutional guarantee for the protection of personal data is not specified in the documents of persons with disabilities. All of this led to a situation that made it difficult to connect individuals in one sense especially to the base of the deceased who had a home number. There was a double increase in the number of persons, as well as the number of people who died who were not so marked. This experience points to the importance of learning legislation that national health registers should be kept in mind, which must have personal identifiers available because otherwise a distorted epidemiological image occurs. So I ask your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93727	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93728	I agree with you, colleague, I think in that sense he's late for this kind of law. It has long been necessary to check the systems and the question is who will make up for all the missed time and problems that have arisen for those whose data have not been harmonised. And on the basis of this example that I have cited myself, we see that there are obviously problems with the use of registers in practice, which is what he ultimately serves. The registry is not there to have some database for a civil servant but for people to exercise their rights through it. Who is responsible for the fact that this is not the case in practice and whether it will be resolved only by legal changes if we have not so far solved the consequences resulting from the previous register, which have nothing to do with this law, I am afraid that this will not be enough, even though it is a step in the right direction with which we all agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93729	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93730	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Representatives Selak Rasdić, we have expanded the subject from a little bit, but I think it is always necessary and at any moment to discuss all aspects of the problem of people with disabilities, so that we can just point out a little bit of the problem that is at the level of the whole of Croatia, these are assistants in continuing for disabled children or children with disabilities or children with developmental difficulties. We know that it is a very complicated procedure to come to the right or to exercise the right to assist in the course, and that there are also a small number of them and that often especially in urban areas there is simply no physical school to accommodate. So I'd like to ask your comment nicely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93731	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93732	An inadmissible small fee, an inaccessible small number of people and inaccessible poor labour rights when we talk about persons who are assistants in the follow-up. And this problem will also be potentiated, I agree with you that it is extremely important and that we should extend this and to it in particular because these legal changes relate both to the use of the register and in the education system and to all other institutions. So he will serve specifically all these systems that we are now talking about. So you're currently in a situation where when you're writing a graduation that people with disabilities have the right to an assistant, someone who will help them if they have certain health problems. However, what will happen now to these under quotes of small graduates, now schools can decide when to enrol in high school that they have entrance exams. No one said in the rulebook how to enable access to these applied exams, whether the assistants have enough and extra to pay for it for people with disabilities who want to compete for high school which have received exams. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93733	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93734	Honorable MPs. In your discussion, you asked a few rhetorical questions, so I will try to answer some of these questions for you. So it's easy to check if someone is a real person with disabilities, it's easy and check who gave them this disability is not a problem. But instead of fighting corruption, instead of fighting this kind of phenomenon in our society, no, we'd rather stop those people with disabilities because someone abuses it, that's the problem. So the fight against corruption is absolutely not in our interest as an opposition, but it's not in anyone's interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93735	Dear representative Selak Raspadic. I agree with you, colleague Pavić, and I can say that I am appalled by this proposal for a regulation which, by altering the point for health problems, has shown that it recognises the problem of his abuse on the ground. If you recognize the problem of abuse then the first thing you need to do is to prevent abuse, but not enough to punish all those who have committed abuse because some children are specifically and damaged by the fact that someone has done malfeasances with additional points, and not only are they damaged they will now obviously be damaged by all persons with disabilities because they do not have this additional point, and they need it because they are in a very complex situation that is different from those with no disability. And we've been developing a sensitive society that should have made it easier for them to enroll in high school, and now we're not like you say we're dealing with corruption, but we've simply decided to ignore the whole situation. to the harm of people with disabilities. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93738	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. First, I would refer to a few data and remind you of the Ombudsman's report for people with disabilities for 2020. It will be interesting to see for 2021, so for 2020, 2,266 complaints were received from natural and legal persons, and most of all there were complaints during the outbreak of labour-related rights to work from home, the need for work from home because of a disabled child in case of self-insulation, etc., also low social benefits and strict censorships limited the achievement of social intervention, the epidemic further made it difficult to provide support through counselling and empowerment. It also states that there are strong obstacles to accessing information, health care, education, employment, labour and the exercise of the right to compensation from the basis of disability and also to the availability of health services due to an epidemic, the exercise of the right to treatment, physical therapy, health care in the house as well as hospital rehabilitation. Why am I saying that? It is, however, an incentive to the ministry that if they have not yet sent a letter to health institutions such as those working for cancer patients, people with disabilities, especially those, who have personally appeared to me who, for the sake of the needs of skill, cannot come up with certain tests or diagnostics, so to give them priority. I already said something to you in art. 8 of this law of the 20 parameters that we talk about under eight writes the level of education, it is very important that we have such data to make it easier for a person with disabilities to access the labour market as easily as possible. Since I work in health care, I have the knowledge that even in health institutions, I do not, of course, have all the facilities, but there is still a situation so that according to certain needs, or according to the law, people with disabilities are employed, but for some reasons it does not seem to be, and then penals are paid. Here's the information that 975 kuna per person is a penalty. When we talked about the Labour Market Act, then I asked, so I was told that 9,000 employers all together in Croatia have an obligation to hire persons with disabilities, but obviously not everyone does so, so here is the way that the resolution ministries should better stimulate at least those who are obliged to hire persons with disabilities to then approach quota fulfillment in a replacement way, and it can be found nicely on a web that is able to meet quotas in a replacement way. When you are looking at the few Disability Registers with a date of 9.9.2021, we have already heard 586.153 persons with disabilities of which 335.050 male sex 57%, 251.103 female sex 43% and that is actually 14.4% of the total population. We talked even there one to ten, and this turns out more projections were made according to population estimates for 2019. And now as for persons who are working on the job, so 45% of that number is a working person means 263.526 and then you look little at the records of persons with disabilities, there are 24.566 persons, and those who are subject to what can be counted on as 14.794 persons, so this seems pretty little to me compared to this total number of people with disabilities. And then when you look at the situation for women with disabilities there we have data for 16.11., so it's total for 9.9., for women for 16.11., and there it says that 255,236 women with disabilities live in Croatia, so 12.3% again means more than 1/10 of the total population of women, of which is the working age of 101,889 women, and in the eyewitness employees of only 12.279, and persons who go under that quota of 5.570 people. So the question arises throughout this whole story, can we still do a little more employment for people with disabilities? According to data from a month ago, I was told 6,231 people with disabilities who are unemployed, but given these data that I have provided, and given this harmonisation of data according to the new register, given the population list, the question is what future figures will be like.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93739	Thank you. The Republic has a respected representative, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93740	Dear colleagues Maric, as you comment on the bill's response to the proposal to introduce a European health card where it is said to be regulated by a law regulating traffic or by a special law, given that the European card is intended to achieve the benefits of transport and does not apply to all persons with disabilities. So again, we do not have a comprehensive approach where when we talk about the rights of persons with disabilities we have one set of laws, strategies and a system through which we will strengthen all their rights rather than the same person who offers the Register Act tells us that this is about to be simplified. How to change that approach and why we don't have this kind of law that would further regulate the rights of disabled persons when we talk about the register of disabled persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93741	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93742	Thank you very much. Well, I think that at least on this side of the discussion today we're all talking about the need to unify the right people with disabilities, we're talking about this European identity card, and I hope that the secretary of state doesn't sit here just because it has to sit down, but that it will respect everything we're saying. So, doing some changes, registers, changes to the law to make something a little bit, and then this other one is none of our business, it really isn't, and we hope that until the second reading this will be all that you've listed and what we're saying will be appreciated.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93743	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93744	Dear MPs, you were talking about hiring people with disabilities. Today you are aware that employers are not that they do not want to hire these persons but simply do not have filled jobs for those people with disabilities. The fact is that there are different degrees of disability, so there is likely to be a possibility of employment. And what's only positive is that the penalties that are actually prescribed and later paid actually go to work with people with disabilities who then get this, actually spend that money on some requalification, so there's a possibility that after the requalification of the disabled person they still hire in some companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93745	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93746	Yeah, here's a thank you, so here's the thing that I'm really interested in really, really interested in, I've given myself a lot of work, and here's something in the replicas to find out, and I've brought something out, and there's a lot of things that can be found if you're going through the data. Like I said, 9,000 employers have a duty to hire. Now, you've got there yet, I haven't even been able to say it, you've still got some kind of act to set up, if they don't think they can hire someone with a disability that they can still send some of their own, your documentation to get rid of the employment of people with disabilities. I think that this kind of pen should really be an incentive for these employers to, to hire people with disabilities, to give them the opportunity to create maybe some sort of redistribution in their own institution where these people could get a job. You in health care can't hire someone at a particular workplace, but you have the possibility, maybe in the kitchen, maybe in the technical service, so you just need to give yourself a hard time and see what the options are, and if you don't meet that, then they're foaming there, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93747	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93748	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear MPs, as far as you think the rights of disabled persons are created in view of the data collected in the register of disabled persons, or how much decisions are made regarding the increase in rights, for example, we have the right to increase the number of persons with disabilities who receive a personal disability but not for extras for help and care, and on the other hand we have this missed national fee for elderly people who, on the other hand, will receive around 20,000 people in the end, as much as you think the register is recognized and how much it is actually used to create all policies aimed at persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93749	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93750	Now, if the register were to be comprehensive, which would really integrate all data relating to a person with disabilities and if it were one intersectoral cooperation and a multidisciplinary approach, then we could do something about it. If you're doing a register just so you can capture some data, and then some other sector doesn't know anything about it, then there's no point. That's why registers should be done in this way, we were saying, and there will probably be talk about the IT sector that can contribute to that register having a purpose and that it can then use with comprehensive data what in healthcare, which for social care, which for employment, etc..
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93751	Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93752	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would return to this European card for people with disabilities for the simple reason that in response to the fact that, in the notice of the Advocate General, the legislator put it only in the area of transport, and the purpose of the European identity card for people with disabilities is much wider, although it is a card that allows all the rights that this person has to be approved throughout the EU. So we can't narrow it down just to traffic, it's not a mobility card, it's a identity card for all rights. In addition, the deadline is until the end of '23, and it is also a prerequisite for the withdrawal of EU funds, so I would like to point out this again, so please comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93753	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93754	Thank you very much. So here, as I said, I believe that the secretary of state listens carefully to what we are always talking about, some things that go for the benefit of our citizens, we do a partial or only after the EU has forced us to do so. So now this is the first reading, the opportunity is, of course, to include this European card and everything that it says in public consultation, we agree, of course, this one and the other, or colleagues who commented, so it's not just for travel, but for a broader spectrum of rights that a person with disabilities must have, therefore, the secretary of state would ask nicely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93755	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93756	Thank you. Here's a colleague, if, given that these professions are, here, I'd like you to answer me, do you see any justification that there are different methods of art, different bodies of art for different groups of people with disabilities, and not according to the kind of disability, but given whether it's military or civilian victims of the Homeland War and everyone else. So we see that certain associations have also pointed out I think, even the Ombudsman, that there is no need for us to have 2 different methodologies and different bodies that determine this, given that, primarily in the case of identification and skills, it should work on the expertise of those persons and, of course, the findings that will allow for the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93757	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93758	Thank you. Here, once again, the question that is here, a little confused was the secretary of state, and he claimed that the same methodologies, they are not the same methodologies, and they have to be the same methodologies. In addition, a disabled person who, I don't know, died and lost his sight, hearing, etc., from one area, also from another area should have the same rights and underline once again, so we need to coordinate these methodologies in art. I hope that's what you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93759	Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93760	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Maric, I must say that I have listened carefully to your presentation and you have actually talked all the time about the Law of Art, Professional Rehabilitation, Employment of Persons with Disabilities, and not the Register Act. Based on that law that you mentioned and that you were talking about, I must remind you that every employer who has more than 20 employees has a duty to hire a certain number of people with disabilities. However, I ask you what if no one answers the contest? What if it is simply impossible for a particular area to find a person with disabilities who can meet these criteria and conditions? And that is why there are replacement ways to comply with the legal provisions. These replacement methods, from the scholarship of students persons with disabilities to the use of services or contracting services with protective workshops, etc., These services are the highest in all EU countries right now [[Intruder: Thank you.]] in the [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93761	Thank you very much. Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93762	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. So here, due to the lack of time this reading that I have shown you, which I did not read in detail, I agree that sometimes someone can't report to the competition, that you simply can't adjust the job for a disabled person, but precisely so that you can meet this replacement method of meeting the quotas, one part of it you said, there's a reception to the practice of students with disabilities, students with disabilities, receiving the practice of rehabilitators as part of professional rehabilitation, making contracts with a student with a disability student, receiving persons with disabilities to professional training for work without establishing a working relationship, making business cooperation with a person with a disability who is employed, scholarshiping regular education of persons with disabilities, that any employer could, right? So, the way there is, it's just a question of whether you're trying or simply paying for a penalty so he doesn't care, and that's not how it should be. You agree, don't you?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93763	Thank you. Thank you very much. We are going to an individual next debate, and this is the respected representative of Željko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93764	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I had a replica that I didn't exactly get a satisfactory answer to, so I'm going to work it out a little bit more in this debate. So, at this point of art, they're being conducted at the Institute of Art and Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and in front of the medical councils who are in charge of the Croatian Defence Ministry. Here we have heard several times both in the debates and in the replicas and in the answers to the replicas that it is considered also by the profession, here, now there was a colleague who is these professions, that it is considered not good, that we have different criteria. The methodology of the work of the Institute of Arts is defined by a regulation on methods of art, and the methodology of the work of the medical councils is prescribed by the rules adopted by the Croatian Defence Minister. If the criteria for the allocation of disability are the same, then why should artificiality be carried out by different bodies according to different methodologies? That's the first question. When I asked whether it was intended to be coordinated somehow and whether it was going to be returned to the Office for Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, so that we had unique standards, I received the answer that this Register will not be kept with regard to HRVI and civilian persons with disabilities from the Homeland War. However, the Explicate Act states that the Register is guided and listed data, but all depending on who the expert has conducted in the Registrar are also entered by different data types for individual attributes. So that's an art. Article 5 8. I hope we've read that and agreed to that. When I saw that the Law was released in the process, I hoped that we would take a step forward and finally bring together all registers whose data are the basis for achieving all social rights, and that we would finally qualify for more transparent action and more transparent allocations and monitoring of all charges that people receive on the basis of social rights, which is extremely important, because one right excludes another, and institutions that grant rights and resources do not have a data exchange through services which is often misused. I've already talked about it here once in my debate and in my replicas, but here's what's happened. In addition, we also need to talk about the costs of development, implementation and maintenance of many information systems that are used in institutions, agencies, ministries, public enterprises and institutions, which contain the same data with small or minor changes or additions. Wouldn't it be better, better, more functional and more transparent, and also cheaper if there was a unique register of all social rights, no matter where they were realised, no matter what the criterion, whether they were paid by HZZO, the state budget, the county budget, or the budget of the units of local self-government or, for example, the Social Care Office, and not to list any further. And now, instead of taking one big step forward, we will take a step that already starts in the single register of people with disabilities predicts the coverage of data according to different criteria, which is extremely bad for our democracy and for further development of transparency in the Republic of Croatia, especially in terms of social rights. How in the near future will we begin to create a single register of all social rights and of all persons who exercise those rights when we do not have a unique data coverage. In existing registers, we simply have nothing to unite because our data is different and we cannot unite them, but we need to re-enter them manually, re-establish the criteria to get a single register. I'm not just talking about the rights of disabled people here, I'm also talking about the rights to achieve health insurance and pensions and everything else that actually comes out of these social rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93765	Thank you. We've got more replicas. She is the first respected representative, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93766	Dear counterpart Pavić, I am interested in your opinion as to how you explain that we have different systems of art in terms of Croatian practice and whether this is the reason and the fact that they are now not evenly equating through this register easier to manipulate registers of persons with disabilities and the possibility of affecting them and any other malversions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93767	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93768	We've already tried to discuss this a little bit in our replicas, and I've tried to do the same with you through the replica of some things, or exchange views about it. We also know that the state's attorney said it wasn't good. We can't have different criteria for the same rights, or for achieving the same rights, and after that it's even worse that all this data is in one register, and then it's no longer different. In addition to well-recognition here in Article 8, if I am not mistaken, it is stated that the data listed under number 12 will be registered differently since they have other basis for determining, given that they are established under the second law. But it's one attribute that's different, and everything else remains the same. That's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93769	Dear representative Simunic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93770	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleague. In your discussion, you spoke about a unique register that would keep records of all social rights. I would like a brief clarification on how you imagined it, and why is all this important? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93771	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93772	Here, I'll tell you. I am currently working on a World Bank project in northern Macedonia, where we are working precisely to create a single register for all the social rights that citizens of northern Macedonia will achieve. And things are very simple. A recording of the situation was to be taken in all ministries, in all agencies, institutions and institutions running individual registers. Afterwards, all these registers are united and added to the attributes that are missing in order to be able to achieve all those rights that are eventually forgotten or that need some additional attributes, i.e. they need some additional data. And it's very simple. Of course it takes time, it requires money, it requires organization, it may require another institution to monitor it, but we'll get more transparent data for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93773	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93774	Dear Vice President, dear colleague. During the discussion of the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, and the Law on Civil Victims, we pointed to the long-term harmfulities of actually detachment of the art of a special population, meaning the defence population and the Institute of Arts. One among other things is that we now have a situation where we cannot, given the different methodology, combine data and plan measures equally for all persons with disabilities. How much do you think that actually this register of people with disabilities is now informatively well let's say we've been submerged to update all the data and how much can it actually be implementing useful for all other institutions that will use that data?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93775	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93776	First, I would like to express my position that I have already expressed here behind this pay phone, which is that I believe we all need to bow deeply to all our defenders as well as to the civilian victims of the war of our Homeland War. So there's no dilemma at all. But why put them in a negative context? For what? What makes the legislator negative in the text? And now that we're looking at this register, we're looking at the Law on this register, then you see a list of institutions from which we're just going to click the data, and we don't know how high that data is. What are we gonna do? You see how it's defined there how these data will be collected, what methods? So we don't have a unique approach. We do not have a unique data coverage at the Ministry of Defence, at the Institute for Public Health and Public Health, in other ministries and other institutions. To have it uniquely, it would make sense. This is the only thing that comes into consideration is the manual input of data with the right criteria that have been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93777	Thank you. Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93778	Thank you. I would warn you of something that has been answered by the Secretary of State in his answer to your question, which means do we have any excuse to single out categories of people with disabilities in this way? He answered you or someone who asked the question less important, he replied that he would like to know by what criteria do we think that these criteria for gaining the status of persons with disabilities are different? So what makes us think they're different? So if they're not different, if those criteria are equal, then it just makes sense what we're warning, which is that there's no difference. It means that all persons with disabilities are equaled according to health criteria. So if there are different criteria then maybe exactly what the secretary of state replied to me is what we need to have different legislation, I mean whether it's fair or not. But if it's just like he said there's no difference in art Then there's no reason to even have legislation answer to that. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93779	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93780	What we can safely claim is that the art methodology is not the same. So one is a methodology in the office, another is in the ministry that works as a medical consulate. It's definitely, so it's written in the law, so it's written in the Law on Defence and Civil Victims of Homeland War, so there's no dilemma at all. Now, if we had unique criteria, I said in one part and in my debate, that we had unique criteria, then we shouldn't separate individual data, or data types within this database. Because we now say in the law it says that it will run a general and special part of the register, with the fact that when we mention that particular part of the register there, some data will be kept a little bit different. Why different? This is because criteria for, or not even criteria have been established differently, but the disability for individual persons has been established differently. And then we'll track it differently inside, and we'll actually have all the data together. What do we get after that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93781	Thank you. Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93782	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague here says it's nice in the register for 2021. Or 9.9. that of this total 186153 people with disabilities. Around the total number in the Republic of Croatia live 64,000 disabled defenders, 4618 persons who have the consequences of World War II or are civilian disabled war and porn. And now, in our law, we talk a lot about methodologies that are not the same. One is of course the Institute of Arts, and the other are medical councils from the jurisdiction of the Croatian Defence Ministry. And now the law tells us that this new law will improve communication, remove unnecessary administrative procedures, and all the while we're actually talking about doubting that there will be some relief. So I'm asking you, as some kind of IT expert, to give advice on what to do, that we can be as sure as possible that the data will be adequate, or unequivocal, and now they're not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93783	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93784	Yeah, we talked about it, and we think of it as a club, and I see that today it's also a major part of the opposition that it's actually going to be aggravating factor. Since we have two methodologies, communication will be difficult, data monitoring will be difficult. After that, it will be difficult to track these data, change, supplement, so I think we have big problems ahead. And in no way will we have unique criteria for obtaining the disability of persons who are civilians and those who were either defenders or those who are victims, the civilian victims of the Homeland War. And there will definitely be additional problems. Instead of evening it up now and getting along, to be more transparent, here's my life again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93785	Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93786	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you spoke about this Law on the Register of Persons with Disabilities in the Republic of Croatia, and it is a constant emphasis on Croatian people with disabilities from the Homeland War. And you wonder why they're double criteria, why they're special skills? In fact, the amendments to the laws that took place in 2019 clearly defined why the law was changed. Given the unique body of art that has not done its job in the right way towards Croatian defenders in hundreds of thousands of lawsuits that have been accepted in Croatian courts, the second reason is that the unique body of art did not apply the regulations that the ministry had in the past times, which are for explosive wounds, for the sufferings of mental disorders and other things that I do not see in this content of the register so that they can be classified in more species. damage as well as gunshot wound [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] And an explosive wound. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] and everything else. [[Thank you very much. We get it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93787	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93788	Your Honor, I've made my stand on defenders clear here for this speaker several times, and I don't think I should repeat it, and as to whether or not we've called for this arts doctor abroad, these are our doctors. Couldn't we have put these same doctors in the hospital to do the same job? Now that we've established that even these doctors aren't doing well, are we going to start another institution, are we going to set up another commission, another commission? Or we'll sanction the bad guys at last. How long? This doesn't make sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93789	Thank you. Now we're going to the final club presentations. First of all, the club of representatives of HDZ is the finally respected representative of Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93790	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the end of this debate on this very important law, the Law on the Register of Persons with Disabilities, which should make it easier for all persons with disabilities to access each system and finally obtaining confirmation of their disability. This law had to be passed new, it would have to be brought new for the reasons that many systems have made changes, and the biggest changes were made in the way of art. Recently, here's my colleague Djakic, and then my defenders come to mind, and recently the defenders separated themselves from the way of art in a unique body of art, so here I hope that now the art of HRVI is going to be a little faster than it was here. And if we're supposed to split up, that'll give us time. In this debate we heard all sorts of things today from assistants to art, topics that are important for people with disabilities, but are somehow not the most important and priority ones today. If we're going to talk, I don't know, about the assistants then we could talk extensively and extensively because here is last week and a week before it was divided into hundreds of contracts throughout Croatia and Minister Aladrović shared his state secretaries contracts for personal assistants, the continuation of the project in Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek, Slavonski Brod, etc., so throughout Croatia. As for the assistants in the class, I have to take a quick look at myself. I've got more or less of every kid that should've been given it, and the assistants I have to say here right now, I've already talked about it before, and there are those who shouldn't have. So when we talk about personal assistants, all of our colleagues are a little bit better off or the assistants continue to get a little better acquainted with it so they can see where the assistant in the follow-up might be more harmful than it does. So I believe that this law will experience this, perhaps until the second reading and some changes, in order to be as good and quality as possible, but I'm sure here's how it makes it a step forward for people with disabilities. And once again, the HDZ club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93791	On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the respected representative, Andreja Maric, will finally speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93792	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the final underline that the SDP club will support this law in its first reading, of course, that after 20 years, the register should be defiled, but I would like to stress once again that there has been a major dispute over the art methodology. However you claim that communication will improve, remove unnecessary administrative procedures, we believe that there will be some problems, that there are no unique criteria that you have been told here at public consultation because at present these two categories, let's divide them, the experts based on different methodologies, recognise the rights of different ranges and the attitude of these associations of persons with disabilities is that their rights should be uniformed. Furthermore, what I would like to underline, it is certainly necessary to introduce a European card for people with disabilities we have talked a lot about so that I hope that you will do so by the second reading. One question that doesn't make any sense to me, so maybe you'll come to us as far as we're concerned. 7, it says here that data collected from health institutions at primary, secondary and tertiary levels of health care are recorded in the register and when you read the register, it says nicely that it receives special consular health protection on the application form on the disability form, whether it is electronic or by hand I do not know, which is prescribed by the data delivery form rule. And now the question is, is that where all the hospital residents are listed, all the checks? You know that when we send the results to the CESH, we need to get a hold of the I.D. What if someone doesn't get involved with the ID, means they don't automatically send that report. It is also important when we talk about the level of education all that we have said that the resolution ministries must work on making as many people with disabilities as possible work. Furthermore, these procedures of treatment are once again asked whether all the hospitalizations are being enrolled, all finds it to try to interpret how it is imagined. Then of those 20 items under Art. 8, 20 is the date of death, and we think that maybe we should introduce cause of death and especially determine whether it is related to disability itself or whether it is some additional cause of death. So, with the date of death, you can see whether or not the cause of death would be a proposal, we also discussed this on the board and related to education and employment of persons with disabilities, we certainly encourage the resolution ministries to increase employment, to stimulate institutions, if letters should be sent to health institutions, etc., to apply replacement programmes, if a person cannot be directly employed, so as not to pay for the penals. And in the end, there were speeches here, related to the article. 18, where the Office is obliged to issue at its request a certificate of data entered in the Register. Of course, there should be a name, a last name, but also a category and how much damage, so it should actually be a single certificate for all persons with disabilities at the level of the Republic of Croatia. Well, here, I say, we'll support this in our first reading, hopefully you'll appreciate what we talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93793	Lastly, on behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Mosta will speak to the esteemed representative Marija Selak Rasdić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93794	In short, of course, the Club of Representatives of Mosta will support these legal changes because we need a new Law on the Register of Persons with Disabilities that will more clearly regulate the rights of persons with disabilities. But that's not enough. What we are expecting in the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, given that we have been very actively involved in all discussions concerning the rights of persons with disabilities, as well as in the debate on the Ombudsman's report for persons with disabilities, their inclusion in the labour market and all other problems we have encountered lately and the attempts of legal solutions is a clear strategy. So we expect that the problems faced by people with disabilities in terms of legal arrangements are broadly accessible. This means very simply, when we talk about these legal changes, we cannot say that the issue of the European Disabilities Card concerns some other legal changes, and that we have not prepared these same legal changes in advance, if we are to edit them through this. We therefore expect packages of legislation to cover the rights of persons with disabilities, which will show a clear strategy for access to persons with disabilities in terms of their rights, which will show the sensitivity of this Parliament, i.e. the sensitivity of the Government for the rights of persons with disabilities, which will allow them to raise social awareness about the specificities of their status. So that's the first thing we're looking for. The second thing that applies to these legal changes concerns how to regulate the law in relation to the regulations. We agree that the content, method of data collection and keeping records in the Register relating to the Article. 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 should be more detailed, however, as in all other legal amendments, we consider it more appropriate that the law, as clearly as possible, regulates how to collect data and keep records in the Register, than that we go to additional regulations on which we cannot have any impact. And what I was talking about here, and as far as this Register is concerned, the question of the rules on enrolment in high school, so the practice of using the Registers within the education system, which is regulated by this Law, we need to check all the malversions that occur in practice, we need to check how school doctors function, how HZJZ works and professional orientation works, when we talk about giving an additional point for health problems when enroling in high school, this system needs to be improved. If there are systemic failures that certain parents have used to manipulate the additional point for health problems, so if the institutions, which I have listed here, do not do their job, or do not know how to use the Registry or the Registry at the level of skill, which has also been discussed, then these things need to be further regulated, and we cannot talk hypocritically about the rights of persons with disabilities here and that, in the educational system, there are legal changes that will solve the problem that is serious and which exists, manipulations with health problems and the problem of superlatives in a way that reduces the rights of persons with disabilities. So, in addition to these legal changes, it is important to say for this speaker that all the treatment so far in the allocation of points for health problems and in general the functioning of the Register and the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities should be checked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93795	Now, on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the respected representative Sandra Bencic will speak finally, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93796	Thank you. So, in front of the Green-Left Block Club, we have already expressed some concerns about the provisions of the law, or we could more call it incompleteities and things that this Register Act has not covered. So, you have seen that in fact here all clubs are unisonally pushing for the introduction of a European Disabilities Card, which would make it easier and faster to exercise the rights of persons with disabilities and in the field of intra-EU mobility, but, especially important, also, the exercise of rights with different institutions and within the Republic of Croatia. Namely, one of the biggest reasons for the remarks that makes people with disabilities address us also to our club, but I believe many others are just the continuing need to collect documentation, new documentation, search for new skills, etc., in order to achieve certain rights. Very often, therefore, people who have inaccessible disability, therefore something that will not be improved with age and as such is skilled, year after year when certain rights are required to bring back certain documentation, as if this situation could change in the meantime, and that is where indeed a huge administrative burden is put on persons with disabilities in order to achieve a certain right. This sort of works out in one part of it. It is resolved precisely by this fact, and I think it is very good that an observation has been adopted in the e-Construction of the City of Zagreb which has asked for children's rights to be resolved with difficulties, so that they should be included as a source of data, and also because they are a source of data, then they can get their own data without compensation from the register itself. This would mean, in particular, that when a citizen/citizen comes because of the exercise of certain rights in the city administration, then he does not have to ask for the information contained in the Register himself, but that the administrative authorities themselves can actually access that data. However, I believe that this should be extended to all the administrative bodies of the county, here the City of Zagreb is in fact a county, given its dual role, to all the administrative bodies, the county that have in their jurisdiction the achievement of any rights relating to persons with disabilities because in this way we will allow people not to really drive around by institutions to collect papers. One of the most important, very important functions in fact of the state, and also of this Register, but also of the State Statistics Institute, this is one topic that we will now discuss later, should concentrate on collecting economic and social data on people with disabilities. The collection of these economic and social data on persons with disabilities is crucial, it is essential for planning and housing policies, therefore, and therefore housing care for persons with disabilities, planning housing units for people with disabilities because you might know how many of them actually live in those apartments or houses that are adapted to people with disabilities. Planning, therefore, accommodation units on, in dormitories, etc., for persons with disabilities, then, the state, the economic and social status of persons with disabilities so that they can plan at all to finally, as a country, introduce therefore an integration supplement for people with disabilities and that we see exactly what kind of costs it should cover in view of the economic and social characteristics of the population, most often problems they have and could literally target such a type of integration supplement. We also support as well as the standing clubs here to adopt a Regulation on the content and manner of data collection and keeping records in the Register which will be more detailed and will allow in fact all those working on the rights of persons with disabilities to have access to data from the Register. We hope, in fact, that through the implementation itself, whether, and through the work of the body of the state administration, everything that we talked about today and what the Ombudsman pointed out for people with disabilities will indeed be realised and that during the implementation, we will have some monitoring system so that we can improve this. Because I'm saying, the key thing is that this Registrar allows easy, quick and effective exercise of rights for all persons with disabilities. No matter what the source of disability. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93797	Now, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, the respected representative Zeljko Pavic will finally speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93798	The Honorable Chairman. Dear secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I think that in today's debates, we've heard a lot of proposals, a lot of suggestions from the opposition, and I hope that at least one part of these suggestions will be adopted. I have not yet completed my thesis today that it should be a unique skill if there really was a big one, there have been major problems in determining disability for the participants of the Homeland War and the civilian sacrifice of the Homeland War, I believe that there are several teams within the Institute of Arts with these same doctors who are currently at the Ministry of Defence and that the same methodology is applied afterwards, it would be much more fair for all persons with disabilities, or persons with disabilities, because then we would have.../incomprehensible/... at least a unique methodology. I've said it before, I don't think we can claim it, and we can't claim that there are different criteria, but definitely the methodology isn't the same. I would also like to ask that our proposal on the single register of all social rights users be considered because in this way we would take a step forward towards transparency in obtaining all the benefits obtained under these social rights and I think that we would all be much more satisfied and that we would be more effective as a state in that part. We know how many social assistance users we have, how many health care users we have, how many pensioners we have, so we're not just talking about disability and social assistance, we're talking about all the other social rights, so if we had a single register in which we'd have some additional data to track down other events and other potential problems, for a particular user, I think we'd have a far greater effect. I note that this is an intensity in Europe, and that, in fact, pre-accession funds pay for such projects in countries around us, and also, such projects are paid by the World Bank, so since we have experience, we know what to do, we know how to do, we know where to go, we know where to go, I think we can do it without a problem, we will have a far, far more transparent and better system. In addition, I think that this would balance and receive all other assistance because current systems do not communicate, meaning the system of units of local self-government, units of the administration and the ministry do not communicate with each other and these rights are then collected, unfortunately, by some. I also feel that it is necessary to help people with disabilities to identify this disability in a simpler way and that these rights are realised as soon as possible. As for us as a club, we will support this law in the hope that at least one part of our suggestions will be heard once more, or listened to, and that one part will be implemented until another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93799	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Health Zeljko Plazonic will speak finally, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93800	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here in the end, I would not have long spoken but only would all the participants of this today's debate on this bill thank you for their constructive proposals, especially when you referred to the text of this Law and we will all very, very consciously study it and try to give a better text for the next reading in the interest of our disabled because it is practically our only and most important goal of this change of this new, this bill... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93801	And to your presentation there are replicas, uh, these are respected representatives of Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93802	So there are some questions left, in general, from the debate, so now it's an opportunity to ask and... I am interested in seeing that here, now this Register regulates the easier availability of rights to disabled persons, since there have been obvious malversions with the point for health problems, which is why we have changed the rules on enrolment in high school because a certain number of parents have provided themselves with an obvious point without having any health problems, so we have had such a huge increase in the numbering of health problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where do you think there could have been a failure in the system, which institution, is it the school doctors, HZZ, did not do their job as it belongs and whether this should be investigated in detail, or if the solution is what the minister of education proposes, which is simply to end the God for health problems, and thus reduce the rights of persons with disabilities?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93803	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93804	Since I don't have anyone in school who goes to primary or any other family, I'm not very familiar with this abuse of this point of fame, and you can see that it's brought by the Ministry of Education, not the Ministry of Health. Clearly, if we do so at the Ministry for such abuse, then we are obliged to check it out by inspection, but so far I don't know if we have received or one such request for inspection in view of that undeserved god to enroll anyone, in any part of the school.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93805	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93806	Thank you. In your replica, you replied to one of the MPs that, in fact, the criteria for obtaining disability status are equal for all categories, so now I'm giving you the chance to correct yourself if that's not true or to actually deny those who have established here, I think, which is an obvious fact, that the criteria are not equal. So they are not the same since the removal of artificial skills from the Ministry's Office of Arts means to acquire the status of disabled people by means of defensive status and acquisition of disability, civil, common meaning disabled people are different criteria. I don't know if it was a slip or if you wanted to say something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93807	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93808	When it comes to disability, then I primarily think about the etiology of one and the disease that led to disability and the medical aspect of that disability. For me, this is the most important, and the methodology can probably not be the same for the simple reason that the acquisition of that disability, the difference between the participants in the Homeland War, any defenders, any civilian victims and those who acquired it in this country during peacetime conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93809	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. Dear MPs and MPs, as we decided this morning, are now moving to a united debate on the next two points. First: - Proposal for a Strategy for the Development of Official Statistics of the Republic of Croatia 2021; and second is: - Proposal for a Programme of Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia 2021-2027.; Proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 29 and 31 of the Official Statistics Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Ah, excuse me, we have a request for a break from the respected representative Katarina Peovic on behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93812	Thank you. So these united points, this united debate replaces the point that we were supposed to discuss, means the replacement of Minister Darka Horvat, would probably have more MPs and MPs here if that point were on the agenda, I'll say, unfairly because, I don't know how many MPs and deputies are aware of how important statistics are for this country and for any other because it determines whether the direction we're going is good or not. It can be manipulated by statistics, but statistics still bring some information that tells us whether we're going in the right direction or not going in the right direction. The material indicators of poverty and deprivation say that we are 8 in Europe by poverty, and that is the data that deny all that statistical manipulation that we can hear very often here that we are doing well, that we have reduced unemployment, that there are more people who are employed, counting, is insurance in retirement, etc., so these are the things that are crucial. I am sorry that it is also seen from the vote on the Committee on Finance that perhaps the representatives and did not read this very important document to the strategy for developing official statistics because they all voted in favour of this document even though this document is a copy of the Statistics Act, which I think is totally unacceptable. So the Strategy has to be a serious document that has to tell us what these problems are, how we're going to solve these problems, and not that the articles of the Statistics Act are being copied. We had to answer the question when we were going to introduce a population register to replace the census register, we should have been asked why initiatives such as the quarterly cost of life did not enter the proposal of the Statistical Activity Programme, although the government pointed out that it was possible to include it, and how we're going to solve the DZS personnel drain, we certainly won't do that to The way it was done here in statistics. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93813	Thank you. Of course I'll grant you a break. Stanku suggested on behalf of the club too, and respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93814	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, please take a break on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club. So it's about a dot that's on the agenda today even though we already knew on Monday, Tuesday it will be. You see from what we have the opportunity for the clubs to be prepared and they want to discuss this subject, but I really want to stress the importance of this topic. The importance of the topic for the simple reason that all the indicators we get from the statistics point to a number of things. Here, among other things, we discussed the strategy of development of the Republic of Croatia as we see it in the future. I am absolutely sure of one thing, and that is that we should talk today, among other things, about what kind of country we see in 2030 or 2030, and where we should go, we see it from statistical data, they actually show us for each segments where we are, what we are and from that we should get a conclusion where we go further. So this break for the simple reason to once again emphasize the importance of this point. I know that all the points in the House aren't equally important, I know that they don't challenge Parliamentarians with equal interest, but when we discussed this point that was previous, then among other things, world indicators show that we have about one person with disabilities in 10 people, alone to strengthen what I'm talking about. When you look at the statistics that are in Croatia, in Croatia one person with disabilities to 6.5 inhabitants. And the key question is why is that, and the answer needs to be given why. So statistics is the base. The basis from which we must recognize which direction the Republic of Croatia is heading.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93815	Of course I'll approve that break, too, according to the article. 293b we will continue to work and on behalf of the motion the Secretary of State will speak from the Ministry of Finance, the Honorable Stipe Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93816	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, respected MPs and MPs. The strategy for developing official statistics for the period from 2021 to 2030 is a long-term strategic document which, in accordance with the basic principles for the development of objective, reliable and timely official statistics on economic and social developments in the Republic of Croatia, sets out the mission, vision and defines priorities aimed at developing the official statistical system in the Republic of Croatia. The strategies therefore point to the direction in which the development of the national system of official statistics is planned. Starting from the state of play, the needs and demands of users and the envisaged dynamics of development, the Strategy defines a vision of the development of the Croatian statistical system as a modern, relevant and innovative statistics that demonstrates the state of social and economic phenomena and will be achieved through the synergy of strategic objectives defined within the next 3 priority areas. The first priority is to further strengthen the national statistical system and successfully cooperate with the European Statistical System, the second priority is to modernise and develop statistical processes, and the third priority is to ensure quality, comparable and timely official statistics and improve them. The quality of official statistics determined by the Code of Practices of European Statistics and binding for all members of the statistical system is important to determine the directions in which the system will make efforts in the future multi-annual period. The achievement of the strategic objectives is planned by implementing a series of measures and activities that are further defined in the medium and short-term plans, medium-term as statistical activities programmes and as short-term implementation plans. The financial framework for the implementation of this Strategy is contained in the state budget, i.e. the budgets of the holder of official statistics and other sources of funds, and in particular Eurostat's donations and EU structural funds. As regards the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2021-2027, it is the same medium-term act of strategic planning, relating to the 7-year period and setting out in more detail the development objectives and ways of achieving the specific strategic objectives defined in the above-mentioned strategy for the development of official statistics, while for each year the short-term implementation plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia will be adopted. The specificity of the programme is to coordinate with the European Statistical System and is to be adopted and adopted for a period equivalent to the duration of the European Statistical Programme, which was also a framework for planning the activities of the national statistical system. In the next programming period until 2027, the European Statistical Programme is part of the programme, part of the EU Single Market Programme, which accounts for 14% of the total budget of that programme, namely 552m euros. The funding will also be provided to national statistical offices for the purpose of the production and dissemination of high-quality statistics. Official statistics are important, not only national but also in international contexts, because it allows comparison of certain aspects of social and economic development with other countries. Given the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU, the specific emphasis is placed on the role of the national statistical system in the European Statistical System and on ensuring the comparability of the statistics of the Republic of Croatia with the data of the EU Member States. The Programme is therefore an act of strategic planning establishing statistical activities for a multi-annual period in accordance with the law, national needs and obligations arising from the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU. The adoption of the programme is also important in order to define the other holders of official statistics which, in addition to the law of certain DZS and of the CNB, constitute a national system of official statistics. The programme in question for the following period shall therefore identify the following authorised bodies as holders of official statistics, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, and the HZZ. All those institutions shall form a national system of official statistics. The programme includes priority areas, activities to be covered by the Croatian statistical system during the period to which it relates, the review of the development objectives of official statistics by statistical fields, the main results to be produced and distributed by responsible holders of official statistics and the primary purpose and main users of statistical data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93817	Thank you. We've got plenty of replicas. She's the first respected representative of Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93818	Thank you. So I would ask you like this, firstly how do we intend to abolish actually the census and other tools have population data if we didn't work out here and predict the introduction of a register of apartments and buildings that is one of the key tools for that? And the second issue is very important for us who are here, what are these improvements in the collection and processing and, of course, the publication of data on the economic and social status of citizens, but also the inequalities in the Republic of Croatia, which you have not had so far, which are necessary for us to actually plan policies, reduce inequalities and evaluate the quality of life of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93819	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93820	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs. Yes, you have made a good point in the annual proposal for a programme of statistical activities for the period from 2021-2027 on page 23 under the chapter of demographic and social statistics is the objective set out but also indicators of results and deadlines to integrate administrative data sources into statistical production in order to create a prerequisite for the establishment of a statistical population register. I would agree with you that this is extremely important and I would remind you that I would say that the vast majority of EU member states actually do not implement censuses in the way we are used to, but that data is taken from administrative data sources or from the population register.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93821	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93822	Yes, let's repeat again, so in this program neither means in the strategy nor in the... statistical activity programme there's nothing that would be a sign of a change to the population register instead of a census, that's what was asked as a question, that I ask you to answer it clearly. The second thing, related to the collection of data that would be key to reducing the inequality in the country, is what is extremely important is to ask questions as to why there are no data on the level of wages in the cities, but only for Zagreb we have this information. Secondly, the RF demanded that a quarterly calculation be made of the minimum cost of living in the Republic of Croatia even though the government had doubled our proposal, she said that it would be included in the medium-term strategic documents, and this is exactly this programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia, but there is none of it here either. So the cost of living would be the key to determining minimum wages, indexing pensions and all that enters the category those social rights. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93823	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93824	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs. Therefore, as I have previously stated, the programme includes priority areas and activities to be covered by the Croatian statistical system during the period covered by the review of the official statistics objectives in these areas. The production of official statistics is actually governed by a strict legal framework or even an EU functioning contract and complemented by a strong autonomous quality framework whose backbone is the code of practice of European statistics and a framework for ensuring the quality of the European statistical system. These details that you state are missing in that document will be part of, and I have also cited the short-term so-called annual implementation plans of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia that are actually being adopted each year on the basis of this programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93825	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93826	Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State. The DZS is the main holder and distributor of official statistics in the Republic of Croatia and represents our country and international authorities responsible for statistics. Here's information that on the DZS's website, about two to three thousand visitors approach each day, which means that it points to the interest of different users. In order to ensure that all of these necessary activities can be given to users in good time, it is certainly necessary to ensure that they are able to comply with obligations both according to data users, to coordinate data creators and to define them in an acceptable form. Does this strategy provide for more significant investment in human resources, human potentials that can give them relevant, timely information and how to strengthen human potential in these specific and demanding jobs at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93827	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93828	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs. Yes, you're right and you're right to point out the human character, or human resources that are extremely important, mainly in the field of statistics. I can only say that the strategy contains both the part and the view and the development of human resources and, in fact, the use of huge resources available to the DZS from the European Statistical Programme, as I said more than 550m euros in the seven-year period to provide national statistical offices for the development and human capacities, as well as the production and dissemination of high-quality statistics. There is, of course, also the most important source of funding for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the Ministry of Finance is always open to discussion and agreement with the DZS if there is a need for by providing additional resources. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93829	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93830	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I believe it's not easy for you to answer questions why, yet this is a specific one area that might be better if it's here and the government has stated that maybe the principal answers some questions that are completely professional, which she may be the only one who knows. I believe it's hard for you to know me here, too, so since the government has listed it here, maybe it would be good if she answered and helped answer some of these questions. It's purely my suggestion since it's written here as a document. On the other hand, perhaps the same question as how the DZS is preparing for the introduction of the euro is we know that this is now a major requirement, a specific requirement, and whether this will mean some additional human resources issues for both the euro and the strategy for all of this, but it is very important in this case that now, according to EUROSTAT, I know that there is already communication, but is more important than the introduction of the euro to the DZS. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93831	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93832	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec. You are right, the introduction of the euro is also challenging for the DZS from several aspects across a range of areas, mainly related to economic statistics, the scope of the data to be published is expanding, but what is important is that the DZS will also be responsible for the measure of monthly price monitoring or grouping of products during the dual display period of prices, so from September this year to December 2023. And he will be in charge of the monthly publication of the data in the follow-up I think a hundred of the most important items and their prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93833	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93834	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have two questions. First of all, I don't know which is simpler. The first question, why do you still have the websites from 2006 they are quite non-transparent, and the beta version of the new sites of the DZS has been finished since 2019? So if you look at EUROSTAT e.g. I mean it's a color TV for your websites. And a second question, maybe even harder. Why was no checklist made after the census? So we've had a lot of cases that people said they weren't listed, I mean it's clear our political assessment that the list was unprepared, that it was pretty sloppyly done and I think it was actually crucial to do exactly the checklist. So here are my two questions for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93835	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93836	Thank you very much. Your Honor. Yeah, you're right beta version of the website was created in 2019, but it took a while to make the right website. According to the information I received from the DZS, the same is expected in the next period and very soon. There were also some objective reasons in these two years of pandemic related to the development of this website, so here we expect all to improve the same at least to be the same as that of EUROSTAT you cited as a good example. As for the checklist after the census, here is the teaching of what the esteemed representative Lalovac said, I am not the person who can answer that question. But what I do know is that soon, in the coming days, a certain set of data is being published, an additional set of data from the counties that have been obtained and with the census, and that somewhere by half this year we should actually have all the published data. which came from the list. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93837	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93838	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. What is evident from all these indicators shown here and the targeted values that are to be achieved are indeed sought through this active cooperation with the European system or statistical system to implement a large number of projects that will be financed by EU funds. Here as we can see, this is indicated from 128 to 198 projects, so a significant investment in the improvement of the system itself, and that is what needs to be particularly highlighted.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93839	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93840	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs. You are right, that there is a significant increase in the number of projects planned to be implemented in the next period, other than cooperation with EUROSTAT or the European Statistical System here I would point out and it is very important for the Croatian statistical system and for the data that we have cooperation between the CNB, but also for all these other holders of official statistics such as the Ministry of Finance, Agriculture, the economy and the HZJZ because only such quality cooperation can lead to quality statistics.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93841	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93842	And here's the thing, I was actually going to ask, we all said here, so statistics are very important for the determination and direction of one country's development, and it's usually said statistics don't lie, lie to those who misread it, so there's kind of a saying going around. If the DZS is working, if there are any activities, I haven't found them in this strategy, to increase statistical literacy, so some activities in describing people, school students, schools and raising statistical literacy because here I say statistics is important from small legs, so here we are in Parliament to understand numbers and by these figures then we can make some decisions. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93843	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93844	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs. We can also see on the websites and Facebook pages of the DZS that the DZS is working to increase this statistical literacy. There are a whole range of workshops, educational materials that are very adapted to children and certain ages that would otherwise not be interested in statistical data and all of this is beautifully published and on as I said on the Facebook pages of the State Statistics Institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93845	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93846	Thank you very much. The Honorable Secretary of State's last census showed that we have 9.25% less and 4.6% more housing units. Croatia is slowly but surely turning into a home of European pensioners, a tourist resort for richer EU residents and a combination of the military landscape. So I'm interested, a lot of the population registers are mentioned here without partial registers such as home unit registers don't make much sense. If you are considering something in this direction, and will you finally, when a register of housing units is established, also consider introducing a property tax in order for these rich people to charge the state budget a little more, so that you do not have to catch our people who went out of Croatia to pay taxes with their belly after bread.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93847	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93848	Thank you very much, esteemed MP. Yeah, you were right when you said the statistics showed 4.6% of the housing units more. It is also likely the result of increased tourist activity in recent decades. We see for ourselves, we've been aware of the construction of numerous objects over the past ten years. And you're right and you're actually bound to seem to me the first answer to a replica about the population register. There is a key establishment of a register of buildings and housing that would then, which is actually a prerequisite that we have this entire population register, which is visible in the plan, or programme for the next seven-year period.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93849	Thank you very much. You can go to your place. We are now going to the debate and the first one, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, will speak to the esteemed representative Vesna Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93850	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Secretary of State, the Honored Director with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. What's statistics? The Encyclopedia says statistics are a branch of applied mathematics that deals with the collection, editing, analysis and interpretation of data and the conclusion of the phenomena and processes that these data present. So in a broader sense, data on different natural, social and other phenomena and processes. Sounds pretty dry, but it's basically not. Without this statistics, we cannot make any quality decision, and besides this definition, we often hear in public and some other definitions that say that statistics are the exact sum of incorrect data, so after the last census, a lot of those who are not listed have appeared, those who are, etc. It is difficult for us to always get information that will be 100% accurate and should not give too much to it. We often hear certain doubts about inflation and the calculation of inflation itself, and I even find that it is even an unwarranted insinuation to do so, but they forget that over 700, 800 different items enter this calculation, and then we come up with this famous statistical charm that doesn't show some a real state of affairs. However, statistics are not just an arithmetical environment and the banking of statistics and statistics themselves should not be done because this degrades an extremely important profession and a number of people who are consciously doing their job. We therefore need to highlight and praise in these documents the fact that this strategy increases the number of analyses and data that will be available free of charge to both the public and the scientific community. Today, without more serious research, you can't even do final work after three years of college, so it's really important to increase the availability of these data, especially for those who know how to read and use them properly and interpret them. In fact, the manipulation of statistics in public space has unfortunately become daily. Sometimes data are used in a percentage, or relative number, and sometimes data in a nominal or absolute amount. Your GDP debt ratio is one of the best indicators. In nominal terms, debt increases, but this is skillfully camouflaged using data that in some ways conceal it in percentage, or relatively. Using only that average as an arithmetical environment is generally a trick because it has broad meaning and is most commonly used to shape public opinion. Only when this average is complete with the media and fashion can we talk about objective and correct use and presentation of statistics. Everything else leads us back to that famous statistical charm. I'm going to look back a little bit on the census results. So there's three million of us and 800 little more than a thousand people. The voters have 3 million and 600,000. The health insurance company has $4 million. A little bigger circus could be said. So the health benefits of 200,000 people more, and voters would be about half a million more than the number of full - age citizens or residents. Well then, it is no wonder that all the research related to election results for the European Parliament through presidential to parliamentary missed absolutely everything. According to these surveys, Ruza Tomasic did not win the European Parliament's mandate and won over 8%. Currently in Croatia there is power in these investigations of the Restart coalition, and I think they are in opposition or perhaps I am wrong. So I have to ask myself, what is this sensational publication of research results every month in the media? Is it in the function of research or public opinion formation? It's all these researches that use data and official data from a census made by the DZS to structure a sample according to the basic socio-demographic parameters. It is therefore extremely important that what is in the strategy, namely that the holders of official statistics in their work are professionally independent, impartial to all users, objective, reliable and respect the principles of statistical confidentiality and cost-effectiveness. The development, production and dissemination of official statistics shall be based on the prescribed methodologies of best international standards and transparently documented appropriate procedures according to quality criteria, i.e. relevance, accuracy, timeliness, respect for publication deadlines, compliance, comparability, availability and clarity of data. In addition, I will highlight this section regarding the population register. I have to say that the DZS is a user of this data, it should be established by the State Office for Demography, so we have to wait for them to create a population register, but once again I will point out that without partial registers, such as pensioners registers, health insurance, employees, etc., not all of these problems that we have now recorded and which are white after this census because we see that nothing with nothing matches, that the deviations are really too big. I will point out once again that it is crucial to create a home unit register, meaning a partial register of exceptional importance for the implementation of fiscal policy in order to finally introduce the very property tax that is necessary and we see from all indicators that it is inevitable. Data from the population register of a number of countries are also used to produce electoral lists, so that if the system of population registration works well, then we cannot have the situation that we have where we are almost identical with the number of voters and the number of voters. What's commendable is that we're planning to shorten data publication deadlines and we've seen that in the last list how late it was and how important this is. As realistic as that is with this number of employees, it is now a second question for the principal. I see you're nosy, there's gonna be a problem. When drawing up the programme of statistical activities, the needs of users and of course the obligations arising from the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU have led to the creation of a programme of statistical activities. The development is based on statistical fields, and in line with the international classification of statistical activities. The program is extensive, comprehensive, covering all relevant areas. The DZS has put in front of it praises valuable goals and will not be easy to achieve, it is evident. It's really an extensive programme because they're going to meet two limiting factors, which are finance and human resources. Here's how it is with the Ministry of Finance's representative, I hope the financial resources will be sufficient, and as far as the number of employees and their competences are concerned, we'll have to put in a questionnaire. And we had this negative experience with the census, the delay was one part, so one part remained unwritten, the other part fictitiously listed, but according to the academic community, Akrap and all the relevant demographics, it's basically inevitable so we won't give it so much to the point. In the end, I will just say that in any case, I hope that the data published by the DZS will all be used knowingly and in accordance with the rules of the profession, and in public space I expect less manipulation and inevitable statistical charms, and more credible, quality data that will be the basis for public policies that will benefit citizens and all inhabitants of the Republic. Croatian sovereigns will support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93851	The next club of MPs will be the Social Democrats, and the respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93852	Thank you, Vice President HS. Secretary of State with his associates. The proposal for a strategy for the development of official statistics for the period 2021-2023, but a united debate with the proposal for a programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia since 2021-2027 is an extremely important item of the agenda, is an important point because today, through discussions on statistics, we are actually discussing where we are, what we are and what direction we want to go. Thus, the Official Statistics Development Strategy for the period 2021-2030 is a long-term strategic document in which, in accordance with the basic principles for the development of objective, reliable and timely official statistics on economic social developments in the Republic of Croatia, a mission, a vision and a set of priorities for the development of the official statistics system in the Republic of Croatia. And actually in that direction on the trail of everything the Secretary of State said here in the introduction, so we have nothing to object to, it's a very professionally designed document behind it by experts. But the question arises, did he respond in that sense to the needs of society? Are we completely clear through vision and mission getting what we should? It is this strategy that in some ways points to the direction in which the development of the national system of official statistics is planned. On the other hand, the programme that stems in some way from the Law on Official Statistics is a medium-term act, as you have said strategic planning, it is here from the twenty-first to twenty-seventh years detailing the development objectives, the way in which individual strategic objectives defined by the Statistics Development Strategy are defined by the one we are talking about and actually being adopted as an annual implementation plan of statistical activities. And just as my colleagues before me, i.e. colleagues and colleagues have extremely stressed official statistics, it is very important. It is important not only for us in the national, but also for the international frameworks because, apart from being statistically, we need to compare and measure various aspects of social and economic development within the country, we need to do so within our regions, within our settlements, within our units of local self-government, for example. We should do this and compete with countries in the international environment. It is primarily an important aspect of us as EU members here. We have already discussed in the assembly today how important it is for us to be in the field of European statistics, to show how good we are and how much better we can be, to turn some of the statistical trends and actually to use those funds that we receive through the funds, to catch the EU average in the best way possible. Well, now that we look at it from that point of view, then maybe these documents don't give those answers that we might want to hear and see in this Parliament. Therefore, it is clear that the programme is the result of an act of strategic planning which sets out statistical activities for the multiannual period. So not only in national, but also in the EU. So now I'm going to do what I think is most important. The government's task and the Parliament's task is to create conditions, so the creation of a climate to improve the living conditions of the population, we will probably all agree. But first of all, in order to develop some policies at all, in order to develop some programmes at all, we need to have data, analytical data on which to develop these policies and programmes. The social, health picture of the population needs to be monitored, a special picture of those most vulnerable groups of citizens. So recently, the largest statistical survey in the Republic of Croatia was carried out which we call the census. We all know very well no matter how old we are, and we have participated in several censuses every ten years. It collects different data. You'll remember they asked us in this population list how many people we have in the house, how many rooms we have, if we have plumbing, sewerage, how we're heating up, etc. That's all the data that's extremely important for statistics. I don't argue with that. Other basic data that are extremely relevant in demographic, economic, educational, migration and other characteristics are also collected. However, what I find a little bit more controversial is whether these data can be used in a timely, quick and analytical manner precisely in creating the basis for the various policies that this government is now implementing, planning reform procedures, etc. Can they be used in timely scientific research? So, can we today give our scientific institutions the latest data or are they still relying on the 2011 census? That's one of my questions now. The census is always said to be one of the basic documents of each country based on which plans and evaluations are made. And now we've had a situation that we've been hit by a pandemic, that we've delayed that census, that he's been delayed a little bit, three times his deadline has been extended. It's closed on 14. Cold. This census was first conducted without paper, or fully digitally. Since it was spent digitally remains for me to find a reason. I'm hoping someone here will know him why the State Statistics Service is waiting to publish the full results of the list just received from that automatic data processing. The Department of Statistics has given us all more than that, the basic data, and I think they're incomplete. But yes, it's worrying enough because it's said that we fell by 9.25% compared to 2011, or almost 400,000 people less. There are fewer households and all compared to 2011. The last list we had at the time, but colleagues and colleagues we all know very well that there are only a few other countries in Europe in the European Union. Everyone else has moved on to the population register. What you are to us from the State Statistics Institute has been substantiated only by lists of the population without age and sex structure, without all of the necessary elements that we could manage the country as resources, and after I repeat the first digital list, and he presented a blood count of Croatia, it is adapted to all requirements. And what have we come down to? That we have a few months after that automatic list, they're just ratting out data. The question arises whether in the Republic of Croatia we consider this census as a political category that may be used by the number of inhabitants, age, sexual structure, development, labour contingent and everything else in the political spheres. Is there still something he doesn't want to show? Is there really as many of us as there are, but it doesn't matter now how many of us there are but it's very, very important this age structure and it's a very important structure for not only employment, but also for that educational structure. So we are certainly in favour, and we will propose this to you for the establishment of a population register, as most EU countries have, which is necessary for an effective public policy, for a functional government, for functional resource management. It is completely evident after this census that we do not have it in Croatia. The population register would provide accurate and up-to-date data on the population relevant for targeted targeting of measures and programmes. The structure has long warned that we need a population register, this also warns the country's management profession, which will combine data on students, students, employees, pensioners, etc. I repeat, we don't even know what our task force contingent is. And just based on this, EUROSTAT, the EU's top statistical body recommends that member states create a prerequisite that after the '21s list. So the ones we've done, they're delivering key demographic lists at the annual level. How are we going to do this on an annual basis, it's my question? This means that most demographics are also in favour of the establishment of the register, not only at the level of Croatia but also at the level of the European Union. In the European Union, only a few countries among them are France and Croatia not to have administrative registers, Bulgaria, Romania, Slovakia and Hungary carry out a census at the level at which we conduct it. So, in order for long-term registers to make sense to us, we need them to be interoperable, which represents the ability of different systems to act uniquely. And at the very end, we will advocate the principle... only that should be the basis of any statistical establishment of the register.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93853	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the respected representative Boris Lalovac will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93854	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with his associates. Here we have today a united debate on the strategy and on the programmes. The strategy is meant for a 10-year period, the implementation activities are for seven years, and that third document is some kind of annual plan of activities of statistical activities so that these are somehow the most important documents that are adopted in this High House, and it's about the State Statistics Office, and therefore, my kind of proposal is maybe when a second time changes the Rules of Procedure is that we actually allow the Director, the Director General of the State Statistics Office to say, it's very important here. Let's be honest, that not all these questions can know the secretary of state, covering a lot of areas here are very specific questions that I believe won't be easily answered by the principal. It's hard for all these answers to questions here that you get, the secretary of state that we're unfortunately bringing here in a awkward situation that has to answer very specific questions that I say can be answered by the head of the State Department of Statistics. So here I think it's some kind of contribution to this debate to make it much better to make it possible not only for her, but for all those who actually manage such specific administrations, very, very specific administrations, to let them speak, right? It's some kind of contribution and it's important not only that there's actually something I can say again over some secretary of state. I think it would be some kind of step in our debate about statistics, right? I'm more interested in a few technical issues like this, which is probably an answer, so we'd be able to control how good our statistics are at all, and we can't say that here in the Parliament, right? We don't have any information, we don't have any valid information. That is the only thing EUROSTAT can say about it. And it's important that here it's said very clearly, whether EUROSTAT has any objections to our statistics, it would be important if it's somehow colleagues controlling their data, comparing data, getting somehow on the importance of that data. However, these data are now being pooled at European Union level, because of this single European market of the entire policy here is very important, it would be important in some way not to say now, is it always the worst thing when I say one thing can be interpreted as such and mistrust in certain such data. Certainly not the same trust in some information in society when you collect for yourself or when you are a member of EUROSTATA, for example. When you are a member of EUROSTATA you must meet the strict criteria, there must come and probably control them, you must send them within certain deadlines and data, they come in scouts and controls etc. It would be good to have some kind of EUROSTATA opinion, not just to say clearly about this quality of data, and then here, when we have that opinion of a EUROSTATA because you still have to trust someone, so it would be much easier to refer to these data that is actually presented by the State Statistics Institute, and would definitely combine them into the whole strategy. I see that one of the goals actually here in the strategy is much stronger and better co-operation with EUROSTAT. This is one goal other than strengthening national statistics with EUROSTAT, so I don't know in the future I don't know if this is how EUROSTAT data is issued for other countries, but it would be good to hear what EUROSTAT thinks about our data and then actually move away from whether anyone is manipulating that data. It's very important and politically in that regard, that we even know it's that information. Here today, here are the very EUROSTAT reported these inflation data, today inflation data came out for January 2022, so Croatia is slightly larger inflation somewhere in January 5.5%. But it's different again when EUROSTAT performs, and in Croatia it's different when it's published by the State Statistics Institute. It's just like that. So it's very important here that we communicate with EUROSTAT and that they also get maybe some of them I'm saying, I don't know if they give something like that and what we need to fix, etc. Is this a very specific, very detailed and data-gathering process, which is statistical processes, which the staff in it are doing by saying very specific matter, and that is why it is in this strategy here that is being adopted today. This proposal for a strategy as far as I've read here has been developed by the State Statistics Service, right? So that's something that so far is what when otherwise legislative proposals or strategies are mainly made by the government, right or some ministry, there's a single document here again, and that's why it's made by the State Statistics Institute, and we don't let them speak, and they made it. So here and some things we have to fix ourselves here in passing laws like this. But everything is in line with, I say, with the profession. So regarding this strategy as a long-term strategic document here, it focuses on strengthening the national statistical system. That's what's very important and that's what we want to hear here how much money there is in this. We have heard that there are certain funds here somewhere around half a billion euros at the level of Europe for EUROSTAT. Well, it'll be shared later. There are, plus domestic resources plus various other envelopes and the use of some European funds. But most importantly, it's important here that these are the personnel and we're all actually here today at all, how many people come out of college at all, and the statistical professions that I don't even know how many times you're even calling a contest to even show up to you people for such specific places as you're even receiving. It's something very similar to what we said at the State Audit Office. A very specific profession, etc. Same here in this part, so you should definitely answer that when we talk about this strategy by 2030. In the years that our personnel structure carries out all these processes by 2030 with personnel. Not only with the personnel that are most important here in the statistics in processing these data, but also in the technology of processing these data. Because what's a fact, I don't know how it is at the level of other European Unions. So all the data that's actually here, the State Statistics Office is the holder of all the statistical data, and in fact all the data is collected by the state. It's all a matter of state. Whether it collects through the Institute of Statistics, whether it collects through the Croatian National Bank, whether it collects through the FINA, through the Tax Administration, through various REGOS etc. Registers, but actually maintains, collects all the data. And that's the greatest value actually today was the highest value I was at a single set when actually some international institutions were talking about the value of the data collected by the state. Terriblely valuable data if we went to the market somehow to communicate, because they affect the whole process. And what today, I don't know how to publish EUROSTAT, which is published by the State Statistics Institute actually shows some kind of look at a daily barometer of information and some political debates refer to what's being published here. So it's very important to run the personnel structure here. I think that's best you should actually know the State Statistics Institute, trust that they have this plan regarding the personnel until 2030. Here I was talking about the relationship with EUROSTAT so that here as another collaboration with the European statistical system. And the third is this comparison of data. This is what Croatia gets even more relevant by entering the EU, because watch when you are outside of all these institutions and when a country wants to raise certain funds, when big global financial investors come and when you say you release information about how much inflation, GDP, I don't know the deficit, etc. They look at you completely differently if you have published it or if you have published it through EUROSTAT. So it is again some part of the trust where Croatia is and this means completely by entering the system of European national accounts, because look here is the introduction of everything... 2010. Methodology. According to ESA 2010, Methodology means a European account system that tells us if it compares what a budget not known in Belgium will look like, and we know that, according to that methodology, it is also made in Croatia. I have to say, you didn't turn this on, you turned this off, and you didn't turn it off. So those who give you money have a much greater confidence that you're the data that you're saying your deficit is 4&5%, etc. that they trust it to comply with all European standards. But believe me, it's not an easy process, because it needs all these European, all the countries that have their specificities to bring them down to one measure. It's an extremely difficult and complicated process and long-term. And let's not forget that when the crisis was, when the crisis started in Greece, and you'll see that you know better? It has just become a crisis due to doubts about the Greek government's statistical data that was there in 2008 in the Greek government, which even was attended by US bankers when they were questioned by those data. When there was a crisis, they said, so my people don't even know how much public debt you owe. And then there was panic. So watch how different this means in the perception of the public and the perception of investors that Croatia is in this, in EUROSTAT and as far as the quality of this data is concerned. That's why I'm finishing it one more time. So please allow the State Statistics Office to speak here, they have developed a quality document. We'll back him up, but to actually make that debate much better.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93855	Time. Ms. Mariana Puljak, Center and Voice Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93856	I would like to thank the chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. We've already heard the question here several times, so why statistics are important. As the saying puts it, “statistics do not lie, ” lie to those who do not understand it. Statistics tell us today that 10.1% more people died in Croatia in 2020 than in the year before. Statistics continue to tell us that observed indicators of poverty for Croatia since 2015. Until 2020. They continuously record growth at the annual level. According to EUROSTAT, Croatia confirmed the position of the second poorest country in the EU. The only thing worse than us is Bulgaria. And the standard in Croatia is 56% weaker than in Germany. Statistics further said in January that Croatia broke out first in the world after dying from covids weekly compared to the number of inhabitants. Statistics also say that in the Republic of Croatia in December 2021. There were 7313 deaths, i.e. the number of deaths in December 2021, increased by 57.6% compared to the five-year average from 2015 to the nineteenth of the same month. We also saw after the census that 396 thousand 360 inhabitants live in Croatia or 9.25% less than in 2011, so all this data and statistics. So, statistics are, are facts or information obtained from a set of numerical data that are important for planning at all levels, both for individual and individual business entities, economic and for the economic and social development of the country as a whole. Official statistics are important not only in national but also in international contexts, as it allows comparison of certain aspects of social and economic development with other countries. Statistics are particularly important today at a time of global crisis when we monitor the number of infected, the number of deaths, the number of deaths per million inhabitants, the number of vaccinated people in the country, the number of seriously diseased on the respirator and the like, so today we all became aware of how important the numbers are, but it is also very important to interpret these numbers correctly so that they can make timely decisions. It is also important to monitor statistics after making those decisions in order to see if they make sense, whether they are effective or should be adapted and changed in accordance with new data. So, what we should be looking for is a evidence-based policy, so... Statistics, as well as the introduction of these documents, should and may answer many questions such as whether society is moving in the desired direction, whether unemployment is increased or reduced, whether CO2 emissions are higher than 10 years ago, what is the success of the national economy compared to other EU Member States, therefore statistics are important for objective measurement of the environment in which we live. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Production of official statistics is arranged as we have seen here by a strict legal framework, complemented by a strong autonomous quality framework, and its backbones are the code of practice of European statistics and the European statistical system. Good decisions require high-quality statistics, more precisely, accurate, consistent, timely and obtained in accordance with international standards without external influence, so the independence of official statistics is essential for its quality. For example. This is what the European Central Bank says about the importance of detailed data, they say in the global financial crisis has become a clear need to collect relevant and more detailed data, therefore the statistics of central banks are no longer only aggregated data that always includes average values but also more detailed data so on. micro data, in order to detect early warning signs in the financial system, e.g. the data at the level of individual loans, transactions and banks, therefore detailed and more detailed data can contribute to understanding the transfer of monetary policy to all segments of the economy. And what happens in Croatia when the central bank, the Central National Bank has detailed data? The shareholders of the National Bank then use these data for personal benefit or trade shares of the banks they oversee and whose detailed data they possess, so they know whether the shares are worth more or less and exploiting or exploiting other types of data to buy properties at incredibly low prices that are not even close to ordinary citizens, in quotes plain. So here's to not mention the operational problems that were created in the census and intending to be solved by the population register already spoken of here, so it's also not clear whether all the necessary registers will be included, whether all the necessary registers for that population register will be included. I'll only mention two topics, and that's statistical literacy, and here's the human capacity of the State Statistics Office again. When I talk about statistical literacy here, I'm going to quote dr. Zmuka from the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb, which speaks of the importance of statistical literacy in the modern environment. So statistical literacy, as I have stated before, has become an essential part of private and business life. If we are not able to properly and correctly understand the statistical results, this affects the adoption of wrong views and conclusions. In particular, those errors occur in a business environment where the wrong conclusions also make the wrong decisions which then result in lower business results. It is therefore very important to work to raise statistical literacy, but the process of increasing the level of statistical literacy is neither simple nor short-lived, and in order to achieve the need for intensive cooperation between institutions and professional associations which are the common objective of just raising the level of statistical literacy. Accordingly, cooperation between the State Department of Statistics of all universities and the Croatian Statistical Society should be ensured in the field of improving the level of statistical literacy. Official statistics holders in the Republic of Croatia are the State Statistics Institute as a central body, CNB and other authorised bodies such as the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development and the HZJZ, so all these institutions make up the national system of official statistics. There are several direct ways by which the State Statistics Institute could affect the level of statistical literacy. The first way, therefore, is to publish easily understood statistical information in appropriate places, for example. on the network pages of the State Department. This is where we said that these web sites, so there's room for improvement considering they were done in 2006. Apart from the Institute's website, information can be made public, so on, in the media, television, radio, daily press, I see here and the Institute has an active network, the network pages, on social networks are quite active. The next direct way is to consult on the correct use and interpretation of statistics, so the organisation of different seminars for users of statistical data, different here and competitions and similar events. University teachers play an important role in promoting and improving statistical literacy not only in students but also in their private and business environments and have an obligation and raise the next generations of teachers who will not transfer their acquired skills to students only but also students in primary and secondary schools. Croatia has a university specialist study, but the professional curricula for acquiring the qualification of economist provides only one teaching course with two hours a week in the third grade, so for two hours a week from statistics. There are certain methods statistically represented in the course of mathematics, however, to an insufficient extent, so teaching really needs to be adapted to the age of students, to previous knowledge and thus to include more teaching in the field of statistics. The second topic that I wanted to say about here is that it's only a short time left, so these are human potentials in the State Statistics Institute. In view of today's time, here in this document itself, it is said that there is a risk of lack of appropriate quality experts. The goals include raising the capacity of employees, however, through an increased share of employees who would attend some form of education of internal workshops, courses and seminars, but this is certainly not enough to attract experts... engineers, IT people, who can certainly make much bigger personal, personal receipts on the market than in the office, here. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93857	Thank you very much. Mr. Bice, the Fox Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93858	... Office of Statistics, allow me to welcome everyone on my personal behalf, and also in front of the Focus Club and independent representatives. [[Last-on speaker]] Speaking of statistics, I'm going to say that she's unquestionably important to everyone who does. This means for demographics who can watch short or long-term movements in society in the Republic of Croatia, for the economy to see how economic indicators push us forward or back, but few people actually know that the State Statistics Institute and our methodology was of special importance to the EU when Croatia enters the same. In fact, this chapter has been so supervised for a simple reason, Europe shares funds and rights in accordance with statistical data. This means how poor you are, how developed you are, how many employees you have, what your social situation is, it depends on how much you will also receive funds in the distribution of the EU budget. If this is important for the EU, it is also important for the Republic of Croatia. I must point out that when we look at where we are now, and especially in this strategy that is ahead of us, it turns out that we are not special, I would say ambitious. In fact, only five EU countries make a list the way we work. That means I'd say a combination in this case just listing and going out into the field. This so-called register, which should provide an opportunity to track the current, daily situation in Croatia, is not present with us, for the time being, nor indicated as a completely secure possibility that must occur before 2031. I would say that we can look at how our neighbours Slovenians are doing who are across from our borders. They have entered the EU before us, of course they also have censuses that they do, for example, work is much faster and much cheaper. If comparisons in 2011 and 2021 are actually made, they provide a million to two million euros for the list of two million Slovenians, and we are 24 million euros for the list of us in this case less than 4 million, it is obvious that the disproportionate is very large and financial and any one. I won't even talk about the results of the Slovenian list. In fact, when viewing the population of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and 2021, it turns out that they increased the population from two million and 50 thousand to over 2 million and 100 thousand. At the same time, the Republic of Croatia has reduced the population by 400,000 and, unfortunately, in this statistics, we can connect European figures, and European figures are quite clear. This number of people living in Croatia is certainly one of the fact that we are now the EU's last to buy power, to move towards the edge of poverty, and that when we talk about other indicators, we certainly cannot boast of anything, and even of this latest crisis related to the coronary crisis where we are said to be 8th in the world by mortality overall, and sometimes the first on a weekly basis. I think we have to work as those who are ahead of us, introduce that register as soon as possible, show the data that we know where we're going and finally that the part that concerns all of us, which is rationality and economics must also be shown in this list. There is no reason to be significantly more expensive 10 times than Slovenia, and the data that Slovenia has, unfortunately, will be expected if the population increase and their I would say the growth within the EU in many segments is simply not for us right now... Target. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] At this point in state statistics, we want only one thing, to reduce the fall, to stabilize, and maybe one day go up, but the figures show exactly the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93859	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Katarina Peovic, the club of representatives of HSS and RF, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93860	Good afternoon, Madam Secretary of State and Associates. So I'm going to try an affirmative object here, and we're going to submit amendments to the meaning of both laws or both of them. What I said first means first of all, I'm really sorry that these topics are coming down to this kind of auditorium because it's about extremely important proposals and it's up to our own policy in some way and what we're going to set up as some framework of what needs to be done, as well as the opposition and the position here. The law on official statistics is largely prescribed here and put into this strategy, and this is bad because the strategy should not be a copy of the law but should indeed detect problems and give some solutions. The assessment means the direction we go depends on these tools that are here as statistical tools are put into these strategies as well. What's set up here as some kind of frame and is detected as, as a problem, let's skip these criticisms because there really would be, there's a lot of things that could be said, I think the documents are literally full of flossulas like that will develop relevant and modern innovative statistics, and then the strategic definitions of the statistical system are literally placed in three sentences of a paragraph that says that we're about to continue with what we're doing, modernize what we're doing and ensure what we're doing. That's 5. The chapter of strategic importance of the strategic definition says, further strengthening of the national statistical system, and successful co-operation with the European statistical system, the second point of modernisation and the third provision of statistics, means around the points do not say anything. But what should be the objectives of official statistics, and here some of these problems have been detected, is that address means some key problems, and that is, above all, in this even divisive document that I think really some members of this Committee of Finance may not have read, because I find it really strange that it is unanimously supported, which means that there is a lack of professional staff and a good thing to be located as a problem, but with this strategy, this problem cannot be solved in any way, means the problem of the State Statistics Institute as a central institution that needs to provide this tool that will be a fundamental tool for political action because beyond all discussions means left, right, centre, what is really confirmed by statistics and figures that are not lying or can be manipulated, but only to one extent, lack of professional staff. But colleagues and colleagues mean that in the State Statistics Institute, wages are really miserable, so there is no shortage of professional staff that can be solved as this document means strategies to solve it, and it literally says that additional education will be carried out, so the most educated when the institution can have a salary of up to 9,000 kuna. These are people that depend on our fate literally, these are the other worst salaries in the state administration in Croatia, worse than they are only the State Meteorological Institute, but they are at least a scientific institution and this might be the solution for the State Statistics Institute that is at least a scientific institution, because then through the scientific verification of its personnel, it could give some kind of confirmation and some kind of empowerment of this very important activity, and we here have neither the scientific confirmation nor therefore the height of the salary that would really be relevant and what the State Statistics Institute is constantly tormenting is a drain of personnel, so all these people simply can do this activity for much more wages elsewhere. But this strategy means that it is meant to address it with additional education, it will certainly not be able to solve the problem, meaning the problem of an institution that has other worst coefficients or lowest wages in the entire state administration. Furthermore, what would be very important is that the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia as the medium-term strategic document includes some statistics that would really be used to overcome this social inequality. Here, a colleague of Lalovac pointed out that Eurostat is the most important to us. No, it's not the most important Eurostat, we really care about Eurostat, but it's important for us to develop the autonomous statistics that are useful to us at this point, and one of the most important things would be really overcoming inequality. In order to achieve this, to achieve this, the key element would be the data that we do not have, and which State Statistics Office could obtain is the amount of monthly minimum cost of life. That's something we asked the government of the Republic of Croatia to include in its plans, we got a negative response, but the government promised in that response that the State Statistics Office would include that calculation in its medium-term plans. Now, the medium-term plan is precisely this means this document, the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia, and then I asked the Secretary of State, he said it would not be included in the short-term programmes as well as in the other problem I mentioned the population register that others were talking about, so we got this belief that it would be included in this document. Why would this be crucial, so that we would have, that's what we only have unions are counting on today, that consumer basket, so it's not enough to count the consumer activity that counts at the State Statistics Service, the consumer activity of a particular activity, so because it's not about consumption, it's about basic costs, and it's really not just a semantic difference, but it's really a crucial difference, we're not talking about consumers and consumption, which in itself already sounds like something that that means we can spend on this or that. 70% of the consumer baskets of pensioners are food and directing, we're talking about basic needs, so it's not just unions to do it, it's got to do it, and the State Statistics Service has to do it for the minimum wage to be associated with these costs, so that it's known that the minimum wage is in the gap with these basic minimum costs and so much so that the indexation of pensions is carried out so that we know where the minimum cost of living is and what the pensioner gets as his pension or what we make every year by regulation as minimum wage. We may not be able to get that minimum wage to that level right now, but we need to know what step we're in relative to the cost of life. It should also ask the question at which stage the introduction of the population register is. So that's where the demographers all agree, and for that, instead of the census, we should have already had a population register. This census was supposed to be the last census, we should have had a register that contained all structural data on households, from the number of members of households through sex, occupation, marital and family status to the nationality of other social definitions. The building and apartment register would, however, have data on every apartment in the building, room, kitchen and bathroom, and that would change at any point in renovating, say, the apartment and the house. These are the things that would be available means every year and updated and that would be the data that we need and without which we can't. Therefore, the question is also why we do not have an average salary calculation in other cities, but only in Zagreb. In Zagreb there was also an official statistical body that was abolished meaning these statistics are reduced at local level, but we still have a calculation of the level of wages in Zagreb, but we do not have in other cities and that was already planned for 2019, why it is not here it is indeed a question. What is also stated here in the debate, once again I will only underline the dependence on European statistics and here in this strategic plan it is pointed out that it is necessary to adopt an autonomous quality framework, but be careful in this statistical document to say that that is the autonomous framework whose backbones are the code of practice of European statistics is the ESS, meaning the European Statistical System. This is not an autonomous statistical policy if it ultimately relies solely on European statistics, good European statistics must have parallel data, that is, and is the key means that we can compare with others, but we must also have autonomous data that is important to us in order to actually get some calculations and suggestions. We'll definitely be against this document, so we'll hand over some amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93861	Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Marijana Balic, who will speak for HDZ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93862	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Director of the State Statistics Office with the associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning of today's presentation, I would like to point out that the proposal for a strategy for developing official statistics for the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2021 to 2030, as well as a proposal for a programme of statistical activities for the period 2021 to 2027. These two very important strategic documents are supported by the HDZ Representatives Club. But I also want to say that I believe that, with these two proposals that are in front of us today, the third document in the same package that the State Statistics Institute has prepared, which is the annual implementation plan for 2021. I am saying this because each of these 3 documents is a strategic document based on the development, production and dissemination of official statistics, and a system of official statistics of the Republic of Croatia for a long-term period, which would relate to the strategy, then a medium-term period which would relate to the programme, and a short-term period or annual plan of statistical activities. But let's take the turn. Strategy for the development of official statistics of the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2021 to 2030. It therefore represents that I have already highlighted a long-term strategic document which, in accordance with the basic principles for the development of objective, reliable and timely official statistics on economic and social developments in the Republic of Croatia, determines primarily vision, mission, and clearly defines strategic objectives aimed at developing the official statistics system in the Republic of Croatia in the coming years. At the same time, no less important strategy aims to provide public-wide answers to questions about the role of the statistical system and its contribution to the development of society or economy as a whole. We also heard from the opening statements that the achievement of the strategic objectives is planned by implementing a series of measures and activities that are further defined in the medium and short-term plans, i.e. programmes of statistical activities and annual implementation plans. Furthermore, it should also be pointed out that for the implementation of this strategy, the financial framework is contained in the state budget or in the budgets of the holders of official statistics, and other sources of funds and Eurostat's donations, as well as EU structural funds, which are mostly financed by activities relating to the development and improvement of the system. As regards the proposal for a statistical programme for the period from 2021 to 2017, It therefore constitutes a strategic document which further discusses the implementation of defined strategic objectives in the medium term and how to achieve certain strategic objectives defined by the relevant strategy for the development of official statistics for the 10-year period. The specificity of this programme is that it is aligned with the European statistical system and is adopted for a period that is the same as the duration of the European statistical programme, which is also a framework for planning the activities of the national statistical system, and all in order to allow comparison of the statistics of the Republic of Croatia with the data of the EU Member States. What does the statistical activity programme include? It includes priority areas, activities to be covered by the Croatian statistical system during the period to which it relates, the review of the development objectives of official statistics by statistical fields, the main results to be produced and distributed by responsible holders of official statistics, and the basic intention and main characteristics of statistical data. In this context, official statistics or statistics have great importance in countries, economies, social and other areas of life and work. However, this importance is not only reflected in national but also in international contexts, since it enables comparison of certain aspects of social and economic development with other countries. Therefore, these data must be as credible as possible in order to make as good a decision as possible to further develop, for example, a sector in the economy. The development of the statistical system itself is a complex process that requires continuous dialogue with users of statistical data, data providers and other holders of official statistics activities with systematic monitoring and application of international standards. In doing so, it has a particular concern about respecting the rules of statistical confidentiality and ensuring the international comparability of statistical indicators, the strategic planning acts, which would establish statistical activities for a multi-annual period in accordance with the law, national needs and obligations arising from the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU. Why is the adoption of this programme still significant? It is also significant to define other holders of official statistics which, in addition to the law of certain State Statistics and CNB, constitute a national system of official statistics. The proposal therefore sets out the following authorised bodies as holders of official statistics, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development and the HZZ. Following all of these institutions, the national system of official statistics of the Republic of Croatia shall constitute the national system of official statistics. Official statistics holders are professionally or professionally independent, impartial to all users, objective and reliable, and respect the principles of statistical confidentiality and cost-effectiveness. The independence of official statistics is essential for its quality and implies full independence in professional issues in order to ensure that all participants in the Croatian Statistical System are fully equal. This applies equally to statistical operators and data providers and users. When drawing up a programme of statistical activities, the needs of users and the obligations resulting from what I have already said from the membership of the Republic of Croatia to the EU have led to changing and supplementing it in order to include ex post requests from users and the obligation to deliver statistics from the European Commission to new legislation. It is equally stated that there is the possibility of subsequent changes in the content of the programme, depending on the financial resources available, and such amendments and additions of the programmes are reportedly implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Official Statistics Act. Finally, the fact that in the future it is necessary to strengthen the quality management system at the implementation level and to extend the coverage of quality control of statistics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93863	- Mrs. Crescent. Sandra Bencic will speak on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93864	Thank you. Well, first of all, I would like to underline what colleague Katarina Peovic said, which is that this is an extremely important strategy and programme because perhaps not enough representatives understand that the quality and availability of statistical data is the basis for building any public policy. And first of all, I would say that what I lack in the strategy and in the programme is decoupling, in fact, and there is no emphasis on what types of statistics are actually necessary for the development and monitoring of certain public policies at the level of the Republic of Croatia. We are often aware here that we are also passing laws and regulations and other strategies and other strategies without actually having quality, quality records-based, and quality records-based usually depends on the data we naturally take from the National Statistics Institute. I have actually contacted the office on many occasions in my previous work, what I can always praise is their willingness and speed to deliver certain data in the table and search form on request, however the same data in searchable table form and form for... If you could use it again, they're not very often available on the pages, we've already asked you something about why we have pages from 2006, it's really something that needs to be improved. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The whole strategy is a little bit effective when you look at it, that's good our colleague said Gordan, a little... Little is what to say from, from another time, not just in its structure, not just in its structure where indicators are regular, so all indicators are listed in that number of new data, the number of new reports or numbers, so there are no quantitative, qualitative data, are purely quantitative, and that also seems to me to be an approach to making a strategy not good, not a good approach at all, because it doesn't matter how much more we will have reports if these reports don't contribute to some basic goals, and these are precisely these goals of creating a good public record based, for making public policies. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, in this strategy, we were particularly interested in whether to take a step forward in monitoring population data that gives us insight into levels of inequality, economic inequality, social inequality and social exclusion. Of course, the state office monitors certain data, we know data on material deprivation, we know data on social exclusion, we know data on the risk of poverty, but what we don't have on a regular basis as available data are data on income distribution in so-called income decimals so that we can actually monitor and even at the quarterly level of change in income distribution, so that it was particularly important for us now during the pandemic to be able to monitor how the pandemic might have affected, in fact, differences in income of different types of households, whether we have increased or decreased the quinther ratio. So for 2019, that he was 4.8, which means that 20% of those in the highest incomes earned on average had an average income of 4.8 times higher than those in the lowest. We know in 2019 that Ginny was 29.8 to us, so I think a little something under 30, but we don't know, so we haven't measured what the impact of the pandemic on Gina has on the past two years. So these are the data that we should have all the time because they're the basis for actually being able to plan policies well, so that we can well target social measures. One of the key things, though, is doing well in one part of the CNB. Therefore, CNB has reports of distribution and inequality in the distribution of different types of assets, and therefore these reports are also based on a survey on finance and household consumption, however, they themselves say that it is one of the problems that this survey is about gross income and not on the net income available, and then you actually have very often and incorrect or incorrect data which, on the distribution of assets that are not the same as in many other countries in Croatia. For example, we know from these reports that one of our greatest inequalities is actually in the distribution of financial assets something and lower in the distribution of property related to real estate, and that's where we come into one of the key things. What is it that Croatia does not have? So, in order to be able to even track and create housing policy at all, in order to reduce the inequality of housing access, so that, in these key social categories, we could actually develop programmes at both national and local level, we would actually need a register of dwellings and buildings in order to know at all times how many people we have, who are in sub-optimal status, how many people we have owned, how they are allocated and also by some income decessors in which it is related. So, in this way, we can only target actually with the housing policy of those who need it, and not share this kind of money with the banks to cut interest rates through the APN's program to buy apartments for those who are creditworthy, and for all those who are not in that income range that they can even borrow for them, we don't have any housing policy. Why do we still care about that apartment register and buildings? It's crucial to us if we want to make a census in a way that we don't do it like we do now, but that we actually have all the data we need in these registers. And what's interesting is that apart from the Nordic countries for which we can say ok, we don't have such a standard, but actually one of the most orderly countries in terms of availability and quality of statistical data and public registers run by Slovenia. Okay, they're a little closer to us and we may already be able to compare with them. So, before they actually introduced the property tax, they made this very register of dwellings and buildings in 2011, they entered every house, every apartment, every business building, listed, calculated the value, the total value and property because it is also an important data and then they can actually monitor their condition and on the real estate market, what is the availability of housing and can have better quality housing policies. So what is also pointed out by colleague Katarina Peovic is something we also supported and sought, which is that we have data on the amount of monthly cost of life. So we need data on what the average household and this single-member household, so we have a household with dependent children, a nursing home, etc., which is what the minimum cost of this household is in terms of nutrition, in terms of housing, in terms of overhead, etc. These data should also be quarterly so that we can monitor the changes in that part, the changes in that part, and that we can quickly and efficiently target social measures for those households that we see, which we can see that both income has not soared and their cost of life has increased. At that time, we would have a much better quality social policy and measures to eat and not to go towards those who may not need it but would indeed go exactly towards those who have remained very often out of the reach of these social, social measures. And I'm actually surprised that there was a promise that it would start to follow, and we see that it's not here now, it's not listed here. Also, what we have in terms of the coordination of all the producers of official statistics is mentioned, therefore, that committee of coordination between you CNB and other statistics producers in the law itself, but I have indeed tried but I have not found that this committee is meeting. I don't know if he's meeting, if he's not meeting, if he's acting, if you can maybe answer us, but here I haven't been able to find a record that's happening. I'd like to mention one more thing, I'm going to leave the rest for final, which is that this strategy doesn't predict the key moment that should begin to follow, which is indicators related to the green transition, it's not sufficiently highlighted here open like that. open and at no general level, and these are actually the key things that in the next 10 years. We have to follow. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93865	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual discussions. She's Mrs. First. Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93866	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Director of the State Statistics and Associates Office. So, before us is a united debate on a very important subject and which means a lot to us all in the adoption of both debates and in HS, and otherwise, it is a strategy for developing official statistics for, from 2021 to 2030 and a proposal for a programme of activities statistical in the period 2021 to 2027. So, the strategy is a long-term strategic document, and the activity programme itself represents a medium-term document that then has shorter periods in which the annual activities are being discussed in fact individual activities. What is already mentioned is that I am the National Statistics Institute of Statistics is the main institution of the system, and it is also very important and data collected by the CNB, and other holders such as the Ministry of Finance, Agriculture, Economy and Sustainable Development, and the HZJZ, all of which is actually a national system of official statistics which is very important and which gives us very important data. What I would like to point out is that this strategy has also defined a vision and developed it through certain priorities, so through three priorities that are listed, which is strengthening national statistics and systems themselves and more successful co-operation with Eurostat, then modernising and developing the process and ensuring quality and comparable data and timely, and improving them. What I would like to point out in particular is that here there has been criticism regarding the fact that it has not, it has not developed certain, certain priorities and objectives. I would warn of a table, table view which is given in fact how priorities and strategic goals will be achieved, so when you look at the initial values in 2020 and those targeted in 2030, I would remind you that it was increased here for example. the number of data exchange agreements and data sources from 73 to 105, that, to increase the number of projects implemented by EU funding to 198 from 128 initials, to increase the number and form of education that is relevant for monitoring all these data from 7% to 50%. You can also look at this, among other things, so the number of statistical activities where the data publication deadline is reduced, so this is exactly what colleagues are instructions that there are no in the current statistics really increasing from the initial value of zero to seven, and that is, modules relating to employment and unemployment, employment and wages for national needs, income and social inclusion and living conditions, regional accounts, organic production and management, transport statistics, air transport and environmental monetary accounts. When you look at it through all other strategic goals then you can see that there is a very large range of improvements and areas that this new methodology will actually follow and that we will be even more reliable and we will have much more quality data that can then be followed by all these elements much better and better quality, so there is, there are deadlines for execution, and we expect that all the site itself, the website of the State Statistics Office to be as good as possible for this search to be faster and, and easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93867	Thank you. The first replica of Mrs. O'Donnell. Porniæ Radošević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93868	Thank you. Dear counterpart Perić, we have agreed today on several occasions that the level of expertise and the number of employees in the statistical data processing business has a significant impact on the quality and timeliness of official statistics and that this strategy provides for investment in human potential, but we also need to know that a number of state bodies at all levels are involved in statistical processes and that their potentials need to be strengthened by modernising, introducing some automated processes with the use of information communication more modern solutions. So on the one hand, we have the State Statistics Office, and on the other hand we have bodies that are data providers, and which are not basic, basic business, nor activity, and are certainly like data providers and those who keep records from which statistics are created, they need to be relieved of both unnecessary administrations and speed up processes in order to waste less time. For the jobs that, thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93869	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93870	Thank you very much. Yes, it is just as important that all those who are participants and whose databases then collect certain data to be both fast and efficient and capacitated as well as the State Statistics Institute, and this segment really needs to be taken into account and that these people and such people are also able to provide education, additional education and constant education, without which we will not actually have quality data but is also a material prerequisite for what we have been looking for and so far and it is recognized through the budget so that the physical status of the state institution is strengthened and able to unite these data and then to present them qualityly.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93871	Mrs. Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93872	Thank you. So here's a colleague, tell me since you're still here in front of the ruling party, do you think Croatia should stress in this reference strategy that it will also introduce a register of real estate or a register of apartments and buildings, call whatever you want and agree that it is actually a prerequisite for the regulation of all social policies including housing policy that we have that register. And if he is, why isn't he clearly foreseen here and we don't know exactly when we're going to get him, when we're going to get him. How are we going to do data instead of a census, population data if we don't have it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93873	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93874	Many registers here and in the strategy are listed as something that will be further improved and made better by 2030, especially in the strategy. So, surely that the register of property buildings and business spaces and apartments should be made, and should be qualityd because without it ultimately we can't do what you said ourselves we can't have any other quality policies. What I think would now be able to get out of existing bases is a lot to get out of, and that's when in the register itself in this property in court, the court register if you were joined by the OIB of each of the assets.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93875	Thank you. Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93876	Thank you. Is it the same as the representatives of the ruling party? I'm asking this question that I've raised in the debate, and I think it was a really good proposal and it's going towards a promotion, overcoming these social differences, why don't you put the State Statistics Office in charge of calculating the minimum cost of life that would then give us information where the minimum wage is, say, with these basic cost of life, in which pensions with those cost of life and similar social transfers are part of it. We have received a reply from the government itself that it will be included in these medium-term plans, but now we see here from this strategy, from this plan that it is not included. Maybe you, maybe the Secretary of State was on the trail, and you're saying maybe that's what you're saying in general, so it's going to be in some concrete meaning programs, but it's not going to be read out of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93877	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93878	So here I just read because I was curious about where the data release deadline was cut, and it's right through the strategic goal of 3.5 of those 7 target values, among other things, the module is here, for example. .../incomprehensible/... wage employment 1.2.3 and module 1.5.2 income social inclusion and living conditions. So that's something that's defined in the strategy itself, and I believe that it will actually help to speed up then, and that's given the short deadline for publishing the data that is set here, that it will then include exactly these parameters where we will then have much more detailed data on the income itself, on living conditions, on wages and employment beyond these already existing bases. So that's where we expect it to be further elaborated within these modules.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93879	Thank you, no more replicas and now it's Mr. Bojan Glavasevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93880	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, this time in Croatian for a change. As far as the strategy is concerned, it works when it's read, when I'm a sociologist, as someone who loves statistics more than it would be considered normal in some conversation or in some society I can tell you like this. It acts terribly conservatively, acts uninventional and acts out of line with the current social needs and in many ways. Here's an example, if we just look at the State Statistics Institute at the time of the Covida-19 pandemic, all the data we have on the 2006 pages, we'll repeat it again as an incentive to activate around it, are related to the monitoring of always the same indicators so that we have a comparison of what happened to them during the crisis. So we have nothing more than that. So, you didn't, so the State Statistics Institute didn't help with the statistics in this crisis in terms of any quick decision-making. All the statistics we have produced is HZJZ, although the statistical office has data, it has indicators, it has resources, it has a methodology to link this daily pandemic data to indicators from other levels. This, however, depends on decision-makers, but in some ideal case, it would lead to more careful use of statistics during the pandemic and more meaningful use at the end of the day, so we can ask ourselves why the State Statistics Institute was not an institution that would help HZJZ at this time with its experience, its methodology and data that you could then fit into HZJZ data. For example. If you go to the website of the British Bureau of Statistics you can see how they were doing, they were gathering partners and they made the whole project about it. Therefore, the way in which this strategy is written and the way it is imagined does not foresee flexibility, nor is it quick-thinking of using a methodology to adopt quality public policies, nor is it quick assistance to crisis institutions and, in the need of data, only programming and modeling on long paths. The question I really want to open with is whether we're living in a time where 10 years of planning is, or, or just long-term planning a sustainable model, and I think the answer is yes, and the question is when the last time we lived in such a time when only long-term and 10-year planning is something that suits you. So, the strategy also does not mention essentially openness to the public in terms of education to the public about how statistics are used in everyday life, there is no statistical description. The impression is that the Institute of Statistics plays a role and is facing institutions exclusively, not the public. So, the impression is that the idea is kind of behind that if the database is available that it's a sufficient step towards the public, and that public has lost faith in the institutions and lost faith in numbers, I think, because there's mostly not enough statistical literacy. In this field of statistics, it delivers products under quotes that are required in terms of benefits for the monitoring of the statistics of individual institutions, but cannot be quickly transformed into monitoring, for example, innovative through institutional statistics at a time when the need for this is shown in terms of some kind of own proactiveity towards the bodies to which it is referred as key in the decision-making of changes, in topics and objectives. So I think we should work on, first of all, that flexibility and opening up to the public and on treating statistics as very, very living things that are interesting, which is life, and not as tables and databases, it simply rejects everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93881	Thank you, too. You don't have a replica. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Katarina Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93882	Oh, here's just a few more tips I didn't get to discuss on behalf of the club. What we were also looking for and what would also be very important is related to the CNB, so other than the National Statistics Institute, the CNB is also very important, an important institution for what a colleague Bencic was talking about, means collecting data that can help us overcome this meaning of the social and inequality gaps that are increasingly emerging in us. One of these things is also data on savings, so it's only 2014. HNB, so we haven't had that information since then, put that information out on our search, and we really thank the CNB, that's a pretty important piece of information, about the level of individual deposits. So, the amount of individual deposits in the accounts is very important because you often know and not in the newspapers yourself, it turns out that the average Croat has saved 10,000 euros, because I mean most Croats when they read it they laugh where they get that money from. So to get a realistic indicator of how much savings we need to get information about the amount of individual deposits, it means how many people have from a certain figure to a certain number in banks. Again what we get and what confirms and all the other data that is a huge gap, means a huge gap between those who have very many and most people who have, so most of them have 10,000 kunas, that is, that is, and a large number of people have nothing in the account or have almost no savings. Anyway, it would be important for us to get the level of individual deposits in a period of time, that's the same thing that's been mentioned here several times, so income, savings, cost of life, real estate register, and then related housing policies. So that's all we can get from the State Statistics Institute, from the CNB, but without that, we don't have the data to guide our policies, so our policies need to be primarily socially sensitive. And just one more piece of information means I've stated in my statement that there is a lack of expert personnel, which is also located in this strategy and we all know that the State Statistics Institute is losing its good staff. I'll just give you a few details why it's like that. So, people go either to the private sector or to the CNB jell that has vastly higher salaries than the State Statistics Institute, and it is not justified to eat, it is not justified that these salaries are so much higher, the pay coefficients also in state agencies, unlike the State Statistics Office in the state agencies working with EU projects are significantly higher than in the State Statistics Office, although a lower level of expertise is needed. So the agencies have more pay, among other things, because of the so-called. The higher coefficients are working with the EU, and the State Statistics Institute which I think is paradoxical has an obligation to co-operate with Eurostat and report it, indicators mean to bring meanings in relation to Eurostat there is no such European coefficient far away means it has lower coefficients and I have listed it as the second lowest salary in the state, state administration. So I think what's listed there as a solution means it's still an education that won't keep that fit that much, especially given that it's a high-expert staff. And I can really join this, that commendation to the State Statistics Institute because I think without the State Statistics Office, we wouldn't have any information at all about what and how and how we should be directing our policies at all. Here's how much I wanted to mention it, and I wish that what my colleague Peric said was true, I'll hold you to the words and remind you of that in future discussions, so that this is not in principle set up so that income and class data is calculated and means income and cost of life, and means, in particular, what is very specific, and that's something that's already being instructed, and it's already gone, so that's the population register that he's in that document that we haven't read from, and that's going to be in concrete documents then and that's going to develop it would certainly be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93883	Stay, stay, stay, stay Mrs. Peovic, if you want to respond because Mr. Ivanovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93884	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear MPs and this replica of mine will go in terms of statistics and statistical measurement of the activities of parliamentary deputies. They say statistics that it's an accurate set of incorrect data, and it's some mantra and flossula that's basically used in public communication, which I personally don't think is good. Statistics are a cornerstone of measuring the success of a single society. We are politicians here and we often listen to various statistics which are mostly incorrect and are based on their own calculations and do not contribute to the development of Croatian society in this sense that statistics are really treated as something that is very important in the articulation of one country, of course compared here with Eurostat and all that matters. What's your opinion on the concept of statistics as something that hasn't been taken very well? in Croatian society? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93885	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93886	Well, thanks for asking. What I really often warn in the debates is that we have statistics that should often be taken with a dose or grain of skepticism and the fact is that when the prime minister says that we have, say, GDP growth that we should still take this with a critical tone. Why? Because when you have GDP growth this year, and last year you had a huge GDP decline relative to others in Europe, then it's not enough to tell me this year we have GDP growth is, I mean, compared to how many others have growth, etc., but in any case statistics are still a tool without which you can't talk about social inequality, which is very important to me as much as we may disagree in something, but none of us can honor or deny the fact that we are after this social depreciation, poverty, exclusion 8 in Europe. That's right, I think that's the information right, I think it came out for 2020. It's just like that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93887	No more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mr. Joseph Begonja's turn, finally on behalf of HDZ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93888	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Madam Director with Associates, colleagues and fellow MPs before us is therefore a governmental, governmental proposal for a strategy for developing official statistics from 2021 to 2030 as a long-term act, as well as a proposal for a programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia until '21. until 2027, which will be supported by the HDZ Representatives' Club, which we have heard various opinions and views of Parliament clubs and individual colleagues and colleagues through the discussions. I think it is necessary to remind once again when it comes to the strategy of developing official statistics of the Republic of Croatia, that it is a development document that comes from the situation found, from the needs and demands of users and the envisaged dynamics of development, which defines the priorities and objectives of the development of the Croatian statistical system in the coming years. The strategy also aims to provide the general public with answers to questions about the role of the statistical system and its contribution to the development of society and economy as a whole. It is based on the relevant regulations of the Republic of Croatia, but also on EU regulations, above all, on the basic statistical principles defined by Regulation No 223 of 2009. The European Parliament and the Council as well as international contracts related to official statistics. The strategy aims to create preconditions for accepting the best international experience in building an efficient, high-quality and reliable statistical system. This document also clearly defines the strategic objectives that the Croatian statistical system will implement by 2030, identify the development needs and potentials of the official statistics system, as well as impact indicators and target values that ensure measurement and evaluation in achieving the objectives set, and link financial resources to the objectives set. In relation to that strategy, it defines the fundamental role of official statistics that is reflected in the production and dissemination of statistical data and the continuous development of statistics in accordance with the basic principles of official statistics. It is important to note that, in addition to the national development objectives of the Republic of Croatia, it also contributes to the achievement of the EU's common strategic objectives, which is an additional challenge in terms of quality and structural characteristics of statistical data and their international comparability. The strategy therefore places a special emphasis on the role of the statistical system of the Republic of Croatia in the European statistical system and enables the comparability of the statistical data of the Republic of Croatia with the data of the EU Member States. As regards the second document, so the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2021 to '27. which represents a medium-term act of strategic planning. In accordance with the Law of Official Statistics, it was drawn up by the State Statistics Institute in cooperation with other holders of official statistics, namely the CNB, the Ministry of Finance, Agriculture, the Economy and Sustainable Development, and the HZJZ. Its 7-year duration is consistent with the duration of the European statistical programme, which is part of the single market programme set out in the Regulation of 2021/690 of April last year. The European statistical programme is a framework for planning the activities of the national statistical system and the national planning document of the new programming cycle '21-'27. is a statistical activity programme '21-'27. On the basis of which the annual implementation plans of statistical activities for each year are also drawn up, which are in line with the strategy of developing official statistics for the period '21-'30. The programme covers priority areas, those activities to be covered by the Croatian statistical system during that 7-year period, the programme also includes a review of the development objectives of official statistics by statistical fields, the main results to be produced and checked, responsible holders of official statistics, and the primary purpose and main users of statistics. Without the intention of further repeating ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, as I said in the introduction, the HDZ Club will accept these two documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93889	You, too. And Mrs. McNally. Sandra Bencic is finally in front of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93890	Thank you. Okay, since the strategy itself and the programme do not specify all the individual values and indicators that will follow us here, it is important to say that what we still lack in Croatian statistics are indicators related to climate change and regular reporting of these indicators. For example, Eurostat has a special category called... and within which different categories are monitored and, inter alia, so-called Drivers, therefore, what is the driver of climate change, so it is measured both in transport and in industry and in those other sectors that are more significant, that contributes more significantly to climate change in agriculture. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would be extremely important for us to actually follow in the parallel for the next period, so in the construction sector to monitor and the indicators mean green transition, which is the question of energy status of buildings, so how much, where the energy efficiency and change are at, is there a change because a very large part of our money is actually going to go from the NPOO to the energy efficiency of buildings. The second thing is the use of alternative or renewable energy sources in the construction sector, so houses, apartments, etc. And in public buildings, let's see how much change we have here, how much change we've made and, of course, follow-up we have, in the context of having the Air Act here the other day, about air protection, which is monitoring the impact of certain pollutants on climate change, but also some important good, such as air, so that we can continuously monitor the data of the transport sector's contribution, let's say air pollution and CO2 emissions in general, and whether there have been some changes in this field from 2021, because once again, a significant part of the money we invest from European funds is about to go on reducing CO2 emissions in the transport sector. So now, I've only given a few examples, but these are the key indicators that we're going to need to follow continuously if there's nothing else, I think, of course, because of us, to make better policies, but if for no other reason, the government is going to have to report on these parameters. We have to discuss it on the board based on these parameters, and we need that data. Furthermore, I wanted to say that I would like to see it in the strategy, we don't have to have it worked out at this point, but to know that we are going towards it, and that is how the State Statistics Institute will respond to the European initiative... I mean that... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] is not the only or main measure for or indicator of the measurement of the actual growth of a particular economy rather than to focus more on developmental, developmental indicators in a particular economy that are focused among others on quality, quality of life and contribution to the economic quality of life of citizens. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know that... is an indicator as it is, he, he depends on many parameters, very often and seductive because I think he can tell you, you have different... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because you have some kind of disaster for example, so then you tell her great I'm... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But actually, when we look at what that growth consists of, then we see that these aren't necessarily great things. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So some new indicators and indicators where this initiative has existed for a long time, for many years at EU level, we could also use it to better plan economic policies and here in the assembly. In fact, it's sad that we're this few here because very often the data types that the State Statistics Institute does determine later and the outcome and the expected results of public policies because they're the only ones we have, and then based on them we do, and actually we have some others like those I said that are related to... We could actually better explain why our policies have to go, go in the other direction. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here I hope, that there is a will in the state office, of course, that such things are being carried out, and here I wish you a small, smaller... and less people's departures, and more, more quality employment in the future [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope you can do it. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93891	Thank you very much. And in the extensions, we heard from Mr. Zeljko Pavić outside the Social Democrats Club, finally. We were already afraid you wouldn't make it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93892	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Statistics. As you know, we gave you the last time you submitted your work reports, we supported you, and this is really how we think your work is good. We also think the documents are in order, but what we wanted to suggest is a public single population register that we should make. We know it's not in your jurisdiction, we know the government needs to do it, so I'd like to ask you to pass it on and make sure you push it a little bit. So we have proposed one conclusion which is obliged by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to develop a central electronic database of population registers that will be used for administrative and statistical purposes without delay. The second obligation is made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to report on the actions taken relating to the production of the register referred to in point (a) of the new conclusion within six months of the HS report. So it's not about you missing something, it's just that we want to improve our data and our registers that we currently have. I also spoke at a point before about a register that could actually be a subregistration of this register, it's about a register of disabled people. And I'm just going to read some more of the arguments we've given with this conclusion. The explanation is that the EU is a member of the EU, therefore, a special emphasis is placed on the role of the national statistical system in the European Statistical System (ESS) and enables comparisons with similar data of the Republic of Croatia with data from EU Member States. EUROSTAT, as the EU's roof statistical body, recommends that Member States create a prerequisite for the delivery of... democratic census data to EUROSTATU at the annual level and after a list of 2021. We've done that list, and now we should have some possibility that we're actually delivering these data to EUROSTA, and we think that the best conditions we could realize are that we have this unique register. The scientific and professional community in the Republic of Croatia has long warned that we need a population register where all relevant data will be pooled. In the EU alone, Ireland, France and Croatia do not have such registers, and are the most accurate and accurate in Scandinavian countries. All countries that have a register and carry out a census according to the data obtained from them, and a classic census with us is only Romania, Bulgaria, Slovakia and Hungary. Following the above mentioned Social Democrats Club, the Social Democrats consider that the population register would receive unique, accurate and up-to-date data on the population essential for targeted targeting of measures and programmes and monitoring their results at certain promotions. Here's actually one suggestion we have, I think it's a good suggestion. I hope you as well as the secretary of state who was before the point here will listen to our proposal, and I talked to him later in the hallway, and I think the proposal is good, so we'll see if it'll be accepted. And from you here, I ask you to try to put such an idea to the government by your authority that we realize it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93893	Thank you, too. We also have Mrs Katarina Peovic's second extension in front of the HSS and RF club. Here you go. Finally, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93894	Thank you. I'll explain those amendments you'll get from our club, there were two of them, and yet we were instructed to close them in one. We have decided to put this into the amendment as a reference point to be a proposal for a statistical activity programme, and this table shows the work of the results of the development objectives. It seems to us that it's kind of summed up here, so this makes sense to get into that table. So we added two development goals in the table indicators of the results of the development goals behind point 6, we added a point 7 that is, so I'm just going to read the development goal, means changing the structure and way of collecting data and establishing a database used as a population register, the result indicator would be the introduction of a population register. We left 2025, although it may be too much, but we cannot objectively assess how much time it takes, we think it is better to leave it until '25, the main development goal would be to increase the number of administrative sources, behind point 7 is also added to point 8 which is said, and the development goal is to increase the number of administrative sources of data and to establish the databases used in the statistical production process to overcome inequalities in society. So the result indicators would be the quarterly calculation of the minimum cost of living in the Republic of Croatia, and the deadline for the achievement would be 2023.g. Let our assessment that this is real. It's an explanation, 2021. in the Republic of Croatia, the last census should then be introduced. The number of population and household structures through the so-called so-called ‘domestic’ should be updated each year. Central population registers and registers of buildings, houses and apartments. The population register would contain all structural data on households from the number of household members through sex, occupation, marital and family status to nationality and other social provisions. The building and apartment register would, however, have data on every apartment in the building, room, kitchen, bathroom, and that would change at any renovation of the apartment or house. When it comes to the census, the central body would be the MUP or the Ministry of Administration, the main identification number of the OIB, and for the register of buildings and apartments would be in charge of the Ministry of Construction and the State Geodetic Administration. This program in statistical activities this is in the statistical activity program by us was missed as one of the goals that would be one important goal. Secondly, what we added meant a key tool explanation would be, a key tool in overcoming social inequalities would be statistics in order to harmonize the calculation of minimum wages or indexing pensions as well as various social transfers, as well as decisions on which the economic status of workers, pensioners, unemployed, and then their standard of living should be extended to extend the number of administrative data sources, to establish a database that would be used to overcome inequality. On 14 June 2021, the government gave its opinion on the proposal for a conclusion sent by the Workers' Front in the procedure on the proposal, and the proposal contained that the government was in charge of the State Statistics Office to carry out a quarterly calculation of the minimum cost of living in the Republic of Croatia. Here we listed the class and office number of this proposal conclusions on calling on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to retain, to hire the State Statistics Office to quarterlyally bring the calculation of the minimum cost of living in the Republic of Croatia. Although the government's proposal would still be rejected and discussed in the assembly likely, it announced in its response that it would include the proposal in the medium-term strategies and work plans. The programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia is precisely a medium-term strategic document that monitors the development objectives and needs of statistical production at the level of the ESF and national needs and should be included in this proposal by us. What we haven't included in the amendments I'll just verbally, in some way just sum up that's our suggestion. It means that the lack of professional work is solved by starting to talk about salary levels in the State Statistics Institute and that it may be discussed that the State Statistics Institute is converted into a scientific institution. Also, as regards wages, the reference point means both state agencies and the CNB, and perhaps the private sector where these personnel earn or earn much higher income. As regards the CNB, only that application means that the amount of individual deposits is brought means in categories from to the deposits that we get information about the amount of individual deposits per account and their class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-02-23-0.u93895	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate, we will vote when the conditions are met and we will now continue tomorrow at 9:30 with the point of the bill's proposal and amendments to the Law on the legal consequences of the conviction, criminal records and rehabilitation, so that's the first reading that's 243. Then it will be under the programme that you have debates and in the end there will be a debate on the objection against the strict measure of distance from the session of the Croatian Parliament, which was submitted by MP Krešo Beljak. Thank you very much and rest. Session interrupted at 16.36 p.m. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Vesna Vucilovic, who will present the positions of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
