ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96310	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96311	Yeah. Well, you see, on the one hand, a lot of things, of course it resembles Slobodan Milosevic and aggression in Croatia. There is a difference, however, Serbia is not a nuclear force and of course, even though Croatia was much more difficult, we should also have this dimension in mind. Today, Serbia is also not in the same geopolitical situation as Russia. Not only because it is not a nuclear force, but because it is surrounded by NATO members. So all the countries around are NATO members or in the case of Kosovo and BiH, NATO is present in those countries. And then it certainly puts Serbia in a second position, but it must decide which direction it wants to go. So it's now a decision that Belgrade definitely has to make.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96312	Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96313	Vice President, Your Honor. This is when we look at the time of the '90s, '91, President Tudjman and many decisions that the people had to make in those moments, we have seen many times that prominent politicians in the Croatian state were not at the moment of being able to make a quality decision and thinking about how many people were threatened and the moment of that decision fast and quality. Today, Europe and the environment are at risk, and this government has brought many quality... Decisions and notifications of the Croatian Armed Forces on security and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian leadership as a people and Croatian army. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96314	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96315	Thank you, colleague Deur. It seems to me that when we had a debate about the Declaration of Ukraine on behalf of our club, I mentioned two important decisions. One, you've alluded to it, and that's strengthening our defence capabilities, obtaining warplanes, but also, by strengthening and ground forces,... and announcing further modernisation of the Armed Forces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another strategic character was the construction of an LNG energy security terminal, which was not always visible to all. Many were against it, from different positions. However, it was the right decision by the government. I think that this situation even now further encourages us to increase and our production, our own gas production and the reduction in actually, imports because there are still a lot of imports of this, and we need to address that issue as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96316	Dear Representative Barbaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96317	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleague. Several speakers mentioned BiH and possibly endanger the Republic of Croatia, which is understandable given the length of the border of different security aspects. Let's also think of the migrant crisis years back from '15. here, you mentioned the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia, I would prefer to be mentioned in the context of the protection of the survival of Croats in BiH, but that is so. Don't you think that a form of war, a special war has been going on for 20 years in BiH through the imposition of illegal representatives, different forms of taxation and the desire for domination, the harmonisation of the right to.../incomprehensible/... the channel in Croatian language and different forms of discrimination deny freedom. In fact, who besides the Croats in BiH wants Euro-Atlantic integration in the first place?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96318	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96319	I believe that the future of BiH must be according to... And you are correct in alluding that the Croats are the ones who strongly support it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, we have debated here several times, and I will repeat, I believe that, especially in this situation, it is important that the leaders of Bosniaks as the most numerous people, and then have a special responsibility, accept Croats as equal partners. To accept an agreement that will allow for the change of the original law and then legitimate representation, not to force the Croats to go into some tactical agreements or co-operation with Banja Luka because I also believe that Banja Luka is the establishment of Belgrade and therefore, if we want BiH to be in the context of this sphere of influence rather than looking west towards Euro-Atlantic integration, it is important that this agreement is reached on the reform of the electoral law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96320	Thank you. Thank you very much. Now we're going to stop by to discuss this point because it's been, like, an hour, and here it is, and we're going to go to the point of view. We will now return to our point which we have briefly interrupted with individual debates, and will now speak the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96322	As a visiting lecturer at the Ban Josip Jelačić War School, who has educated our top officers for years, I have been systematically following military policies and all the shortcomings we have in improving military science that is the prerequisite for our strategic positioning in the future especially when we talk about such serious threats. Unfortunately, what we could see when we voted on the university law on a new military university does not have enough hearing for constructive proposals to help make military science in Croatia not only advanced but finally and isolated. So, to simplify for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we are not developing our military strategies, and then we wonder why we do not have enough quality discussions in public space about the acquisition of military equipment, aircraft and everything else. Without such strategies, all the other military equipment, I won't say it's too high, but it certainly can't be used in a quality way. In the previous debate that has lasted so far, we could hear a conversation on three topics within this legislative proposal. One is the attitude towards NATO and the question of whether Croatia should send an army to Hungary, the other is the issue of cybersecurity, and the third is the issue which is currently current and which has been the issue of the general issue of our security and thus the issue of the state of supply. When we talk about cybersecurity, I want to remind you, and this is what we were talking about when we discussed the Cyber Security Certificate Act that Croatia is also the target of cyber attacks by other countries that SOA is trying to oppose, and in this regard we have developed the SKAUT Central System for Disclosure and Early Warning and Protection against State-sponsored cyber attacks. But what I'm interested in is how does it work in practice? Government of the Republic of Croatia on 1 April 2021 decide on measures and actions to raise national early detection and protection capabilities against State-sponsored cyber attacks. What is allowed here is to include key services operators, digital service providers, critical national structures operators and other legal persons registered in the Republic of Croatia. So it is according to the regulation, and we have recently had one truly significant breach of cybersecurity regarding one of the most important mobile operators where their users' data came out. So in that sense, the question is whether we're doing really enough because we see that in this sense we're quite vulnerable when any threat comes, and the threat can also be military or cybernetic military character. When are we talking about Croatia's participation in NATO military and how much is Croatia threatened by this conflict? It is important to say that Croatia currently has a thousand soldiers on alert so-called ... and currently in Hungary on the NATO mission there are 15 of our soldiers who are there in office. If we send them now, they will, together with Slovakia, Slovenia and Hungary, form a NATO division. What matters to us here is that the area... of extreme importance for the safety of the Republic of Croatia is, in fact, by protecting that space, we are indirectly protecting our country. However, one question is what our obligations as NATO members are, the other is when a concrete military threat comes to how much all NATO members are willing to carry out their obligations, so we have the current situation with Hungary and its reluctant consent to NATO operating within it and it has allowed NATO troops to deploy in western Hungary, meaning only in western Hungary and shipments of weapons to move its territory to other NATO member states, it was in the government's regulation. So the question is how does the NATO alliance really work in the bang, given all other interests of all other countries in our environment. And in the end, I'm going to drive to what's really about stockpiles, not a good condition. During the Covid’s pandemic, this also served as an excuse for not controlling stock stocks, so the State Inspectorate or the Directorate did not exercise control. Earlier, malversions were present, and we now have insufficient stock supplies, given who is headed by the competent ministry, Minister Coric, I fear that the problems with the supplies will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96323	Thank you. The Republic has a respected representative, Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96324	Dear colleague Selak Raspadic. You mentioned a recent breakthrough, in fact you and I spoke about it at the time of our discussions, but this is not the first such situation that a significant system with a significant amount of personal data from Croatian citizens and citizens has been compromised. A year ago, two of these things happened in one of the Croatian hospitals, and then it was talked about in the media, but the impression is that these things are only known after they happen, or more likely to happen by chance than by targeting some kind of communication by the authorities. Do you think there's enough transparency about situations like these, so when the breach is already happening? Do you feel that there is a situation in which the public and the public are unable to know what happened and how do you feel that this should generally work in terms of public communication? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96325	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96326	Thanks for asking. So, as far as this part of the SOA is concerned on its pages is concerned, I suppose that these issues that the countries are jeopardizing us, and we would be happy to have access to these data and to the issue of state security, so we can't dispose of them, although interestingly in the defence report, many data that are indeed and the question of our security are easily revealed, in contrast to public procurement data that doesn't exist at the time of the crown because it's declared secret, so there are double standards. What is interesting when we talk about these breakthroughs in cybersecurity or cybersecurity that is present in Croatia is that there is not enough articulation even under EU directives, then, in consequence of our consumer rights legislation. So even this security certificate that we've been discussing remains voluntary and precisely because it allows some grey zone companies to have no special obligation to protect their users because they won't pay the fine. And I think INA a few years ago if I'm not mistaken, she also had a serious breakthrough in that sense. which is also a matter of national threat. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96327	Dear Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96328	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues. Given the geographical position of Croatia, then the countries with which we are bordering, and then also a certain form of floating mines in our neighbourhood, in your opinion that Croatia should be strategically positioned in the context of NATO itself, supply supplies, cyber security and all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96329	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96330	If Croatia really cared about its security, I will express myself more precisely, the current government, which manages the Republic of Croatia, would then resolve the key issue that is a prerequisite for conflict and which can always be escalated, which is respect for the Dayton Agreement, so the equality of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We did not use the mechanisms within the EU that we have at our disposal, secure our key strategic and security interest, enable the Croats to participate in the political life of BiH, so that we can say that not only have we not contributed to the stabilisation of BiH, but today and see how much its instability can cost us. So that's where we made a serious political failure, and as to whether it would escalate NATO countries are surrounded by the Republic of Serbia, so Given the distance from Russia, I believe that this kind of escalation will not come. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96331	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Ante Deura, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96332	In this debate, above all, what is most important and what is in the environment of our security, it is a matter of security but the Croatian state and people during their 30 years in the circumstances in which the modern Croatian state was created, in which everything was threatened by the stability of the Croatian people, the Croatian army since the Homeland War until today proved to be how far ahead President Tudjman had thought. At that time, we had as much as our colleagues today who are in opposition without diminishing their patriotism but certainly not understanding them or that activist who is always popular not thinking about security, about leadership, about survival. I would like to say that, above all, the Croatian army has continued to grow. Let us also remember former Defence Minister Damir Krstic, who, along with the Croatian Government, led by Andrej Plenkovic, former President Grabar Kitarovic and the opening of new military from Sinj, Vukovar when many at the time did not understand what it was, why this is happening, how much budget we now have all the time of a certain activism that is not under the circumstances in which Eastern Europe is today and the environment in which we are in. Today, the Croats are currently in BiH. I would like to welcome today in Tomislavgrad doctors who were then creating a military headquarters, which is then Croatian doctors, the war sanity at the head of wonderful people who came from Croatia to help leave warm hospitals, their families. Today is the anniversary of the field, and here I want to welcome them this way and thank them for all the human, human effort through the war in BiH that they gave at the time. I want to say about the abilities of the Croatian army. During the six years of this government, President Plenkovic and Minister Krsticevic, Minister Banozic, showed something, something that is leadership, proved to be recognizable. All that we've been through in the 1990s, remembering Vukovar, the cry, the impotence of the Croatian man, the infirmity of the cry, and regretting that we are not then in a family called NATO, which we are not in a family called the EU. Today we can give from this pay phone plus or minus to NATO or the EU but Croatia is not at risk. Croatia is in the strongest family today. Surely we have compassion for the people of Ukraine so they don't. Let us remember Srebrenica, all the cities that Serbian aggression has conquered. Today, the Ukrainian people are going through something similar. From this place they gave the declaration, but first of all Croatia is permanent. We have a strong Croatian army. Through the planes, unfortunately, our colleagues wanted to take from that part and put it elsewhere, not thinking about the safety of the people as it came into existence, in the indifference and financial and armed except love and empathy towards its homeland. Today we have a strong, professional army that has been recognized in the NATO alliance. We can be proud. It is certain that it is a European force, and France is the first military force in Europe and this shows that we are part of it, that these aircraft that we have bought are the greatest security in the environment in which we are. Listening to a colleague of the Rasudiæ yes, the Croatian people bled but then some did not understand because they fought for civil Bosnia without thinking about their people, but today it is important Let's be national, let's have value... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96333	Thank you, colleague Deur. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of the Kristulovic Opara.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96334	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague, dear representative Deur. You spent three months defending Vukovar as an abandoned warrior here on this occasion I repeat my congratulations both to you and to all the Vukovar defenders who today mark Wolf's Day. How your experience as a Vukovar defender today can be passed on to brave Croatian soldiers who will defend the security of Europe within NATO at the Hungarian borders, we are discussing this today. Tell me how you feel as a werewolf defender and how you see the possibility that this heritage of brave Croatian soldiers, but also victory in the Homeland War can be used as part of NATO's security umbrella, and all in connection with the document that we can be proud of, on the Homeland Thanksgiving strategy you worked on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96335	Thank you. Dear Representative Deur, thank you, thank you, dear representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96336	Thank you, Your Honor, for sure that during Vukovar and the Homeland War the Croatian people showed the ability, love, emotion under the leadership of the first Croatian president. Throughout all these years of strengthening the HV and its abilities today we have truly trained and quality HV with all the capabilities that, through all the missions that we are going through the EU and through NATO, it is something that gives young people security, gives new perseverances and I think that the Croatian state can be sure, that Croatian people can trust their HV and today as members of the EU and NATO can really be constant in all of this, unfortunately that we have been in the 1990s where we have no help and very little today, we can be safe and truly proud of everything that has been gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96337	The following will be spoken by honourable representative Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96338	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's the second week we've experienced the feeling we had in the '90s and the way we hoped we'd never feel again, but there's the Russian aggression that made us and the rest of the world feel like a narrator in that famous Vladimir Visock song about wild horses leading him over the edge of a break-in. Yet as much as we feel the icy wind of war on our faces, we're so aware that today we're not in the vulnerable position we were in back then. Just because we remember what it's like to be lonely in front of a ruthless aggressor today we're standing next to Ukraine at her moment of need. We have opened the doors of refugees, in the news here I hear there are nearly 4,000 of them in Croatia, we have sent help in medical supplies, protective equipment and weapons. Equally important, we've come close, we've joined the sanctions on Russia, even though we're aware that this will expose us to risks. Russia put us on the list of countries that make up, quote, hostile acts against the Russian Federation, Russian companies and Russian citizens. That means we'll be the target of Russian countermeasures, both economic and cybernetic. If we look back at my club, we personally have been warning about cyber threats and their dangers for a long time. We asked for a significant increase in that item in the budget, but then there was no hearing, okay. I am pleased that our experts will be involved in the fight against hybrid threats. I want to warn here of an important phenomenon in the digital eco system, which is so-called. The echo chamber. Often these days we hear Ukraine win the so-called. The propaganda war, they use memories, videos and social networks, but they win where, in the West, Russia doesn't win. In Russia, largely due to the effects of echo chambers and algorithmic prejudices on social networks, but also because of the repressive control of the media propaganda victory, Putin bears a 10% increase in the ratings in the last two weeks. This has implications for our neighborhood as well. The so-called The Serbian world of Dodik and Vukica Putin is a hero and some of them, like Bosko Obradovic, in Serbia, already project and wish war in BiH for claims that Sarajevo and mujahedin will attack Banja Luka. Such Putinovic should be fought primarily where their lies fall to the most fertile soil, in the digital eco system. Does Croatia have the capacity for such a fight? Is there any understanding of the battlefield and the weapons the other side controls? Does Croatia have a clear picture of what victory would be here in this case? That answer to this last question I can give. Escalating any conflict in the region, the Serbian world is a defeat, European values, peace and stability in the region that is a victory. Putinov, Dodik and Vukicev divide et ipmer it is defeat, unity in the fight for democracy, freedom and rule of law that is victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96339	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96340	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Glavasevic, you have touched on the themes of this digital eco world and the way false information is created by an indoctrinated people who then make the wrong political decisions. Do you have any idea how the academic community, especially historians, could in any way contribute to the understanding of some current political events in this digital world by spreading and placing the right information and their proper contextualization and in light of these recent events?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96341	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96342	Thank you for asking, and I'm glad you asked him because it's a very common one, one very common one, so I won't say a mistake, but a logical first step in thinking, if we have something that's false then we need to place information that's true, but it's just, it's just part of the answer, because phenomena like echo chambers aren't the kind of thing, just in what kind of information appears, but the thing is that it's a phenomenon of social networks where algorithms that show information to users and bring them together with other users create this one effect of echoes in which these false information is simply echoed and repeated, and thus they get momentum and strength. So the problem is solved by algorithms. So that's where we need to talk to big companies like Google, Facebook to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96343	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96344	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, here's a very close colleague of mine who's come to me on the point that I wanted to do the same to you as she did, so I'm going to rephrase a little bit. When you go to SOA sites, then you have a number of concepts that you can also monitor cybersecurity and specifically separate information security. You were, of course, talking about what we as a society can contribute to this cyber war, but how do you see from these proposals decisions where the Armed Forces in terms of cybersecurity will be sent, how much can there be a link to the forces of civil society that are important to us for cybersecurity? It means they connect with each other and perform together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96345	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96346	Well, that might be such a complex question. On the one hand, civil society and civil society forces are precisely in the independent action of one another. And I think it's a matter of more being viewed as something that's complementary than something that maybe, I think, sometimes there are situations where civil society and, say, armed forces or cybersecurity teams can act together. And civil society may have shown, in a period of time, that these feck checks are a kind of attempt to solve a part of the problem with a certain amount of success, but I think that the problem is, in fact, that civil society can have a lot more difficulty interacting with large companies in whose jurisdiction and whose greatest power is to solve the problem. So, I would still return the matter more to the institutions than to the civilian society in that part. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96347	Thank you. Now he will speak to the esteemed representative Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96348	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Secretary-General, colleagues and colleagues, we have two decisions in front of us to send Croatian soldiers to NATO's mission. I will in this short time consider cybersecurity and this cybernetic response team and direct assistance to cyber security. I think in the 21st century, but here in this aggression we see that hacker attacks today are considered the greatest threat to world peace and security. The threat from cyberspace is the fastest growing security challenge today, and the threat to the NATO alliance itself is becoming more and more frequent and complex, and the attack on one member could endanger the entire alliance. We've had such a recent attack, we've seen that there's also been a fall in a mobile network, access to certain data from the operator and the banking Internet system, and we know how much this can cause one country's problem itself. The introduction, which I am in the replica note, which is something that I am pleased to see the Ministry of Defence taking into account and doing exercises on, in this area, which is the very exercise Cyber Coalition that happened in Croatia at the end of last year. I think that these exercises should have more and that might be something that goes under the radar and it's good to go under the radar honestly sensitive subject and that's one of the special capabilities that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have been developing over the last few years, and this particular exercise Cyber Coalition has gathered over 1,000 participants from 34 NATO member states and partner countries, but what's important when we talk about cyber attacks, it's hybrid warfare that they involved other private and social institutions that have been involved in this exercise. Especially here is CARNET our scientific network, but also the colleges of computer engineering, the college of engineering, the Faculty of Transport, the Faculty of Law in Osijek, high school in Algebra, and is today when we look at what is actually a hybrid type of warfare and this why we send out 5 of our participants related to the cybernetic team.../incomprehensible/... that these are attacks that are not only a problem for defence purposes. So they're not, they're not attacks that only defend themselves, they're only the Ministry of Defense, they're just attacks that happen to affect the whole country all over the country. I think every country has a problem that exactly this kind of information infrastructure is often privately owned. It's hard to control this one, but there's a intelligence community and these cybernetic teams themselves must certainly give their pain. And at the beginning of this aggression itself, we saw that it was actually this war propaganda, the difamation of NATO itself, the differentiation of certain structures, but also one fake news that, every day we witness in our space that it was actually the first attack before the actual actual aggression, before soldiers or certain missile systems or anything else went to some country. That's how it happened here and in with the Russians. So we've seen a very strong rhetoric for several years and a lot of false news, but a lot of misinformation involving this very hybrid action in the choices of individual, individual countries, on the financial system, and that's one thing that convinces, one beginning where certain panic is sown normally among the people, among a particular nation, among a certain people, and then it's just going, just war action. Why is it important that we have this cybernetic team? Why is it important that, as the Secretary of State has told us, that the Ministry of Defense is very much developing, developing this ability, it's important just for the sake of common protocols. When we see 34 countries, when we see 1,000 participants, they can simply work quality only if they have a common language, if they have common protocols. So the cybernetic system, the hybrid type of attack, the hybrid type of action is very important in all future conflicts. My question was also at the beginning how much Croatia is a cybersafe country. I know, I repeat, it's not a subject we talk about and talk about more often than our services do in the background. I am pleased that both the university community and that certain companies are involved in this particular exercise, because this means that the Ministry of the Interior, as well as the Ministry of Defence, is taking these threats very seriously and that I believe that Croatia will ultimately be ready for any of these activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96349	And on your exhibit, we have more replicas. The first is the respected MP Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96350	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Bačić, today in the 21st century we live in a world where most attacks on modern democracies are mainly happening in cyberspace by hybrid action, as you mentioned in your debate. Therefore, there are certain disinformation systems that spread doubt and thus achieve certain objectives. What's your opinion? How much Croatia is a cybersafe country. Knowing our infrastructure owns the same and possible attack. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96351	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96352	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Baradic, for this replica. Here's how I finished the presentation my question was exactly how much Croatia is a cybersafe country. I've got an answer from the secretary of state, that we're working very hard on it, and we have no reason to be afraid. I always say what we see now in Ukraine. The first attack goes to telecommunications services, the first attack goes to that very infrastructure. The problem is every country in the modern and Western world, which is precisely this infrastructure is already 10, 20 or 30 years ago privately owned, and this difficult state can be involved and acted on its own. He has to act together with his private partners. Looking at the size of our country, looking at this team of cybernetics and the very ability of the army we've been developing since the time of Minister Krstičević, I believe it's working on, and this is exactly how our soldiers' participation will only make it easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96353	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96354	Your Honor, I'm glad you're... presented in his debate, which is that members of the military and civil society can work together on security and can work together on security. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore necessary to include the academic community and all those who are good and quality experts in this area. I would just like to draw your attention that it is an extremely important fact how secure Croatia is. Why? Because that also applies to EU security. We know that safety is as good as the weakest link. Therefore, if we are weak in that part, the EU will be weak, and we cannot afford it. Before we talked about where, I was talking about where all the information is actually used, where everything is used Internet and it's extremely important for our current life. But let's not forget that without it he can't continue to communicate, we can't continue to function.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96355	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96356	Thank you Vice President, I thank my colleague Pavić for this replica, and we are on a similar trail and I see that we may have devoted a little space to this other part, which is cybernetics itself. We talked more about the aggression itself in Ukraine. I will only repeat this sentence that you have highlighted, and this is exactly a threat to NATO's alliance there is increasingly often, and an attack on one member could endanger the entire alliance. We also know now that the information infrastructure is not to mention the internet operators that are foreign operators that we've discussed here a lot about tax policies themselves and we've seen that we can't just control things, that we can't even charge for things, but we can't control the system itself. And we've seen now attacks on exactly Russia that go exclusively and first on such services and on such devices, which are telecommunications. If you separate one country from the world, and very simply with several cables and several transmitters you can do it, it can be dangerous for the whole world.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96357	Thank you. Dear Representative Krstulović Opara.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96358	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague. We are witnessing right now at the time of Russia's aggression on Ukraine's strong cybernetic and hybrid attacks on general public opinion. With algorithms on our screens, our phones appeared, news appeared that conditioned thinking and even some of our colleagues who were against voting for the Declaration on Ukraine, who spoke of the unnecessary demilitarisation of Croatian society as it esculates NATO. And NATO has just been the target of these attacks lately where we've had a chance to hear that there's a Russian attack should be justified because Ukraine attacked Russia because it has a nuclear weapon. How do you look at these attempts and how do you resist it? Because it's about extremely fragile, unusually important and sensitive subjects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96359	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96360	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Krstulović Opera, on the replica. I fully agree with you and during the debate on the Ukraine Declaration itself, which is here I look forward to bringing it almost unanimously to the Croatian Parliament, but in a report last week by the Prime Minister on the state of Ukraine we were just talking about and on the subject we see not only in Croatia where it may not be such a problem, but we see in the environment that there are certain actors who, for their oxy reasons, normally stand on one side, have been trying here specifically to side with Russia for years to make a certain distinction of the NATO alliance's path, accuse them. That's dangerous stuff. Why? Simple portals, media, social networks carry it over, certain opinions are being drawn up. What stands in the background is questionable, but it can in any case compromise the system of a single state, especially when it comes to the attack.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96361	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96362	Well, thank you, Your Honor. Given what parliamentary majority you are coming from, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you do not take for granted this agreement of all parliamentary clubs, as well as the opposition on some of the issues that are important to our common national security, namely, I would like you to respect also some suggestions and recommendations. In your speech, you asked rhetorically how secure Croatia is, and I would like the home defence committee of HS to define what data we need to have in order to be able to assess ourselves as a representative body of citizens whether Croatia is safe enough or not and would also like to include more significantly in these activities the academic community with its information, interpretations, suggestions and comments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96363	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96364	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleagues, Oreshkovic, on the line. I agree fully with you regarding the academic community, and I have therefore highlighted the Cyber Coalition activities and this exercise that took place together with the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence and certain other public institutions, including a large number of universities and a large number of universities from Split, Zagreb and Osijek from computer to law school, and that's a good thing because cyber attacks and cybersecurity concern the entire public space and there without private actors, public, without government, without a ministry, we can definitely do nothing as a country ourselves. As for the consent of the opposition and the ruling, it should not be negative for anyone. These are serious topics, and these are the serious moments we're in, and it's a big plus that we have this big agreement and we can work very well on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96365	Dear Representative Budalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96366	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor. We are witnessing that through the conflict in Ukraine and the spread of false news in media space... is a certain damage. Is it a cyber attack through our media space if we testify to the increasing entry of Serbian capital into Croatian media and to what extent, how can we protect ourselves from such activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96367	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96368	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, fellow Budalic, for that replica. I'll take advantage of my failure to reach my colleague Oreshkovic at the back of the Defence Committee itself. I agree with you there are things and foreign capital what we say about internet domains and Internet operators, these are all foreign companies located in Croatia and media houses. We have seen an attempt, but certain acquisitions in our area related to the television houses themselves. That's the problem if it's uncontrollable, we need to know what the state's interest is. We had a recent and closed defence committee session where the Director of the Military Intelligence Agency was, he gave us some things, convinced us that they were following the situation to react to every type of threat. Now as much as that, it was still a closed session as we can share it here with all the MPs, yet we have signed related to qualified data. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96369	Dear Representative Balic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96370	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Bacic. These two decisions that we are discussing today are repeatedly highlighted today as being made in the context of aggression against Ukraine. It is indisputable that EU Member States should jointly strengthen cyber-resistantness and also develop common opportunities for cyber-security and defence in order, of course, to respond quickly and adequately to security challenges, all of which, of course, in coordination with NATO. It is therefore necessary to take clear steps to strengthen the defence cybernetic capacity, and thus to strengthen European security. The participation of the Republic of Croatia in this project is certainly one of the steps that will be taken to contribute to this and my question in this regard has been, in your opinion, necessary to take further steps towards this clear security defence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96371	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96372	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleagues Balic for this replica. I'm not going to say cybernetics is a new thing, but there's a certain number of decades, and now we see exactly this example of Russian aggression in Ukraine, and now we see an example of how harmful and dangerous it can be. I am also pleased that you have pointed out at European level that certain institutions have been involved in the debate, under discussion I mean not only demagogical or political but also I see that the European Parliament's representatives are also looking for certain steps and the European Commission itself to take in this field. We know ourselves that the European Commission does not normally interfere with such conflicts at the level of arms supply, equipment and cybernetics that it is now involved. It is simply a problem that is ahead of us, we team no matter how many people we have sent to this cybernetic team we have in Morh a special ability that deals exclusively with it, so I think that the Croatian state has taken it seriously that together with partners it will do it well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96373	He will now speak finally on behalf of the Centre and GLAS MP, Dalija Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96374	Thank you. My fellow MPs and MPs. In my opening statement, I was saying that war conflicts are not the only danger that threatens us, I was saying among other things, that this wartime wartime wartime rhetoric very often comes upon fertile soil where democracy becomes dysfunctional, so it becomes dictators that have their military power, very often and nuclear that then becomes a threat to all. In other words, when we talk about security, we need not only to ask ourselves what our military defence forces are, but also what our defence forces are in terms of the functioning of democracy, some constitutional rights and the ratio of power between our HS and other competent authorities. I also drew attention to the fact that this decision has a very lacking explanation which lacks concrete data and a causal link between some of the crucial and historical ones, let us now call it, historic events, from the agreement under NATO's 2014 alliance to 2016, until this situation in February when our defence minister in Brussels gave consent to further strengthening the Allied Restraint and Defence Law. Why am I saying that? Because we in HS have one problem, and that is that our role is practically derivated in the sense that it is written in the provisions of the constitution. The Parliament no longer has almost no control power, and in the executive power, so we have a person who may not be there and in these circumstances of extreme world tension and crisis, we have to face the fact that we have a defence minister who, for the beginning of the conflict of interest, has abused his position and authority to assign himself an apartment that does not belong to him and that we now have the confidence that such a person who, I dare say from this stage, has provided himself with a very henhouse manner of pettyness, so that he will be firm and determined at international level in these military issues in which we know that there are various interests and various speculators where they are different, as to say, with corrupt intentions, powerful people are involved in decision-making processes by the public authority, and no one has said a single word of this day. We also have a major problem with the intransparency of the Ministry of Defence's work, which does not answer many journalists exactly where journalists are on the verge of revealing new corrupt affairs. And the third thing, we have a problem with both discipline and control of discipline in the military itself, in which, unfortunately, many of them are found in the situation that the consummations of various intoxicating agents are. Unless we are able to set first of all the criteria for who may be the minister at the head of this ministry, especially in such sensitive conditions, then I don't think we're up to the role that the constitution puts before us. And let's just remember under what circumstances Andrej Plenkovic replaced the Minister of Health Mr. Kujundzic when he said the world expects a new large pandemic crisis, so that someone who has personal corrupt affairs will be able to devote himself to one big goal and now we have more or less copy paste situation in another portfolio. Once again, we have a minister who has a handful of his own problems, and a global crisis that needs to be dealt with and to be answered by the kudikam is beyond the crisis of the coronary pandemic of the virus, so I ask Andrej Plenkovic if he is now able to apply his own criteria and... To two different resolution ministries? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what I'm going to appeal to again is that the Parliament is re-returning its role and the power it should have had, which is that, through the Resorial and Parental Working Body of the Defence Committee, it defines what kind of data it is and what arguments it must have in the future, have a decision like this so that this agreement and agreement of the opposition parliamentary clubs is not just principled. but there are also some suggestions to be expected.../The speaker has been disabled.... [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96375	Thank you. Dear Representative Ante Bačić, Darko Klasic will now speak for HSLS and Reformist in the final, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96376	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the assembly, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In less than 100 years. Information technologies have completely changed their way of life. These days often mentioned Swift is basically an international system for electronic implementation of financial transactions through which more than 77 billion transactions go through annually and are connected to almost all banks in the world. Thanks to him, you can pay for lunch in Patagonia or buy cell phones in Singapore. At the same time, Swift and the banking system is entirely one of the best indicators of how sensitive modern society is to cyber attacks. A month ago, a minor from Slavonski Brod managed to break through company A1's database, what can only the state's informed and funded teams of hackers? Far from the eyes of the public, Israel and Iran daily wage bitter battles on the information battlefield. It is so on 24 and 25 April 2020. Iran's intelligence tried to launch a cyber attack on Israel's drinking water power system. Part of the report states that the attack was aimed at suspending water supply, but part claims that the attackers tried to reach a water disinfection control system. US airlines have requested a delay in introducing 5G mobile networks to airports in fear that their data transmission capacity will allow terrorists to crash planes or even take full control of the flight. Global cybernetic issues are on the rise, and a growing number of sophisticated cyber attacks in health care will depend on modern society on cybertechnology for new approaches to cybersecurity. Many American, Canadian and European private and public organisations are victims of frequent attacks whose damage directly and largely affects competitiveness and sustainability. As members of NATO and the EU, Croatia is potentially the target of state-sponsored cyber attacks that are thoroughly planned, advanced and persistent, often marking a high level of expertise and cover-up of the perpetrators. State-sponsored cyber attacks focus on selected vital targets and implement them in organised hacker groups linking them to the intelligence systems of individual countries. Because of all this cybersecurity has become an inseparable part of national and global security. The normal course of life of all of us, no matter how informative we are, and how much we serve the benefits of the information world, we are addicted to cybersecurity today in this digital world. This project plans to quickly create a multinational network to respond to cybernetic teams composed of cyber defence experts from NATO member states, and unlike other multinational initiatives in cyber defence focusing mainly on sharing and sharing cybersecurity information. Finally, HSLS supports all efforts to improve cybersecurity in order to protect the national and EU cyberspace, more so if it takes place within the PESCO programme, as well as the decision to include Croatia in NATO's activities as part of NATO's increased vigilance activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96377	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Ante Bačić will speak finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96378	Thank you, dear Vice President. Again, welcome to the secretary of state and the secretary-general of the ministry. I think that at the end of this final address, when we listened to individual debates, but when we listened to all the colleagues who spoke on behalf of the clubs, it was good that we were on the same page, not to mention a similar lead regarding these two decisions involving members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the missions and activities of NATO and for increased vigilance in Hungary, but for this establishment. Not the establishment but the formation of a cybernetic response team and mutual assistance in cybersecurity. Both of these decisions have the support of the president of the state, normal and government of the Republic of Croatia, and we see here and the foundation, by which we send our soldiers into these activities from summits in Wales to meetings of the European Council itself until NATO meetings related to heads of state, foreign ministers and others, and it is important to stress here that nothing is new, that this is in fact the sole continuation of the presence of NATO forces themselves at NATO's borders, and we must always stress that. But we also have to stress normally that there has been a change in the geopolitical situation, but also a security situation in Europe, something that perhaps yesterday we couldn't imagine that could happen 500km from Croatia or a few kilometers from the border of the NATO alliance, whether it is Poland or Hungary, and that's one threat that could threaten the entire Alliance itself. Generally, this is all we have talked about and we must simply be present, it is our obligation as a member of the Alliance, not only is it our obligation to do so gives one particular ability to the Croatian military what we have been seeking to do since the 1990s and to be in such an alliance, that we have this experience that we can apply it to the protection of our borders. But this is one tendency since the '90s when we remember the first Croatian president, Dr. Tudjman, but also our policy of the 1990s, which was a policy that was just an alliance, a policy where we had an aspiration to enter both the EU and NATO. And what I have asked several times as a rhetorical question through this debate, which would be that in this environment where Croatia has always been interesting and traffic and security, which would be if we were not a member of both the EU and NATO. I think we'd be in a much worse position, not to mention the economy, just to mention security at this point. But I repeat, this also gives us a certain commitment as an EU Member State and the only one in this part of Southeast Europe, among the only NATO member states in this same area, it gives us one particular obligation, it is difficult to say control, control of the environment itself, but we must be definitely more awake than others if we represent and defend the borders of the entire NATO alliance. And by looking at our economic situation, but also by security we can't allow any escalation, no aggression attempt in our environment, and we can't even allow and we must control and keep an eye on and have enough information if even the slightest incident near our border is being prepared, because we have to protect both our tourism and our economy. My own thesis is that we do not need to be afraid and that we should not be skeptical and run away from the role of leaders in Southeast Europe, I think that we definitely deserve it and that we must be and that it is our responsibility when we see who we have partners, when we see what kind of border we have and what kind of environment we have. We must impose ourselves here a little bit stronger than we have as a state, but all in all, looking at this and these two decisions shows that we are on a good track, that we have a good reputation among our partners in the alliance and that this is definitely one thing we must do and that we must do and for the security position in which Europe is located through the alliance we must protect and the Republic itself. I invite you to the HDZ Club to support a joint decision like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96379	She will now speak with a respected representative, Selak Rasudic, final on behalf of the Representatives' Club Mosta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96380	This is because my colleague Bačić spoke about the need to impose ourselves and impose ourselves more strongly in the environment, I will mention once again that we have Ban Josip Jelačić War School and that the issue of attending and completing that school is a matter of prestige for all the countries that are in our environment, however, we do not take advantage of the potential of this war school and I am sure that in terms of developing its capacities together we could do much, much more. The current question is whether Croatian soldiers should go to Hungary or to what extent should we participate in NATO missions? As I mentioned earlier, we currently have about 1,000 soldiers on alert, but the decision on how many will be made and where they will be deployed depends on the political will of the Member States. In that sense, we are invited here to decide together on the basis of the arguments that we will do and how concretely we will do. And here I want to remind myself of the role and responsibility of the assembly in military policies. An annual defence report is being discussed in the Croatian Parliament every year. There is a question of the declassification of confidential data and of what may be revealed within these reports as well as a security threat. It is not looked after in this context, but it is looked after in some other contexts that we consider to be the supply of medical equipment in view of the Covid crisis which is already in the sunset that should be far more transparent. There is also our key strategic document, the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2015 to 2024. Apparently, there's a new one going now. What, though, of that old man’s achievements, what was the actual cost of money? Asking these questions is the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament, but most often we return to our old pain. Have we even asked the committee in charge the right questions and whether there is a democratic control mechanism to achieve a plan for the development of the Armed Forces or whether it is another in a series of documents that most have not even read? How important is the issue of military capacities and military equipment and the possibility of responding to the crisis, so the security issue is best visible today. Yes, in our environment there are also short-sighted policies that would always come under the auspices of peace-making resources for military capabilities. However, I would like to remind you that no one is in the interest of war. Nor does anyone advocate a high - quality, modern and capable army who is adequately equipped to do so because they want us to send these soldiers into conflict tomorrow. All those who do this do it exclusively, and I speak for us because we have always advocated an army that will be modern and self-sufficient, because they are political realists, because they know that the only possibility in the uncertain world we live in today is to defend ourselves so that we are well equipped enough that no one dares to attack us. So maybe for someone paradoxical, but seemingly paradoxically logically, in order to remain in peace, we need to be equipped as if we could go to war tomorrow. As for sending our soldiers to Hungary, two things need to be pointed out. The area of the Pannonian Valley is of paramount importance for the safety of the Republic of Croatia, so by protecting it we are also directly protecting the Croatian border because, of course, it is our goal to have any war action as far away as possible. But the question is whether we will send our soldiers to Hungary, in what capacity and how long it depends on both will and will as a NATO member country. It should also be pointed out that Hungary allowed the deployment only in western Hungary and that in practice we see unlike the theory that when such a serious military threat comes, given all the interests of the countries that are within the NATO Pact, which are to be reconciled, it is much more difficult to achieve cooperation between different countries than in theory. Let us all hope together that this will be the last moment of such a serious military threat where we will have to activate the Croatian Parliament in this way and decide to send our army at close proximity And we hope that this sending will remain only in Hungary and will [[Intruder: Thank you.]] In the end, be a peace mission. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96381	Now, finally, on behalf of the HSS and Workers' Front Club, a respected representative, Katarina Peovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96382	Good afternoon. First of all, to say that this is an isolated opinion, so on behalf of the club, I'm speaking, but I'm voting out. The second thing I'm saying absolutely means as the Workers' Front, we condemn the attack on Ukraine. We believe it is extremely important at this point to advocate an end to the conflict right now. What we disagree with is that an end to the conflict can be achieved by the concentration of the military at NATO's borders. Consistent with the peace, peace, humanitarian, anti-militarist and anti-Imperialist policies I represent, I will not vote in favour of the government's proposal for the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of NATO's enhanced vigilance activities in Hungary, which will send 70 members of the Croatian Armed Forces to Hungary as part of NATO forces. I will remind you that Croatia entered NATO in 2008 without a referendum. The moment we entered NATO, we were told that we would be safer and one of the arguments was that we would spend less on the army. We now see that we are spending more than 2% of GDP on the military, and it has been said that independent armed forces will cost about 3%, which is also probably a little bit excessive. Either way, we're not safer. We believe that the first goal should be to end all conflicts and insist on establishing peace, but we do not agree that it can be achieved so that the forces can be concentrated and we have heard here from some, I must express a surprise that I will be the only one who will not support this proposal because I was almost convinced that those who stand and who, like me, represent the activist associations that have become, have sent a series of applications for peace these days are on my side, but here the argument that now peace can only be achieved by the concentration of weapons and military at the border, means NATO towards Ukraine. Although it is not often heard through the media, there are a number of countries that have not sent weapons and armies. We also welcome the Swedish prime minister who refused, meaning Sweden's entry into NATO alliance, believing it to be the type of argument, that type means politics would destabilise Europe. Here we are in favour of returning to agreements and charters such as the Mine Two and the Budapest Treaty as well as the NCF Charter The conventional armed forces in Europe treatment from 1990, the ABM Charter The Anti-Balistic Missile Treaty of 1972 between the United States and Russia as well as the New Strategic Arms Reform Treaty Charter between the United States and Russia from 2011. The geopolitical games that foreign parties lead cannot justify human sacrifice. We believe that Croatia should be committed to calming the conflict at the same time without agreeing to include our soldiers in the war. And finally, I repeat here we are standing by the appeals of the peace associations in Croatia whose voice we are representing here and we finally feel that we need to fight militarism at home which we see only stronger and growing in the last days and we think it will not be better. However, the militarisation of society has begun and will continue to grow. We believe that it is a task, so if you want the left to be anti-militarist at this point, to fight militarism at home, against imperialist policies around the world, and to put the interest, the common interest of the working people ahead of the interests of political elites, capital and especially military-industrial factions of that capital, and therefore not war among nations, not peace among the classes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96383	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, the respected representative Željko Pavić will speak finally, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96384	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I'll remind you again that this is actually about two topics that are united. It is one thing to send the Armed Forces to Hungary, and the other is that our people are trained to be more competent in the defence of both the EU and the Republic of Croatia. So I hope that those who have said they will not vote for these proposals that this applies only to the first proposal concerning the concentration of NATO forces at the borders, given that this was mentioned earlier, and that this second law, i.e. the decision and the motion for a decision, will vote. I guess. I hope the respected MPs also realized that there were some woods and I believe that Mr. Secretary was having a hard time listening to some debates, given that there were great delusions and completely missed topics. I'm talking about cybersecurity. There have been a lot of missed debates and I hope it's clear to everyone that we have to defend our own internet space, that we have to defend our cyberspace because it's vital to us. Since I don't want to mention the Internet of Things, I don't want to mention those ground floor things that happen in our households, small businesses. Let's just talk about big things. We're no matter what we have top experts who can handle the attacks on the outside, but we're sensitive again. I'll just remind you that about six, seven, eight years ago, we were a few days without internet in Croatia. And that wasn't the reason the attack, the reason was that one telecom company was changing the hardware base. I don't want to talk now about which companies they moved from to another company and it happened in fact that in the documentation that was provided with the equipment that was delivered were incorrect data. And when the equipment came to an 80% load, you know what I'm talking about, Mr. Secretary, when the equipment came to 80% of the Internet system in the Republic of Croatia it fell. And we were out of the Internet for a few days. Zagreb, however, has a shorter time. I happened to be at a conference after two, three days in Sibenik, Sibenik still didn't have the Internet. Therefore, we are sensitive, and we need to take care of it. And let us not afford to be against such government decisions, no matter what we are an opposition, let us not afford to be lagging behind in the development of our people, let us not allow our experts to lag behind in their knowledge because of the wrong decisions being made. It's my appeal as a man who's been dealing with IT and who's been dealing with security for a long time, despite the security of information systems and protection but for a long time. And we have to take care of what I appealed for when I had my speech before the debate. I told Mr. Secretary again if it is possible for these knowledge that our soldiers acquire, pardon members of the Croatian army to acquire courses and various activities they will have in that group if it is possible to expand it to the civil sector and that as many people as possible have those competences. This is also very important for the functioning of large systems, it is not only important for Croatia as a state. Any system in the Republic of Croatia that has any other importance has a serious IT system and is subject to major attacks. These major attacks are prevented in various ways, but in order to prevent this effectively and in time you need to have knowledge, you need to have competences. Without it, it can't work. These people don't go to school without a clue that everything's clear, that anything can go without a problem, then it shouldn't be schooling. We currently have a lot of equipment, a variety of equipment both in Croatia and in Europe, and we need to get to know these equipment, and we need to know exactly how to do it so that we remain safe, safe and that we can use these systems that we are currently using, that we can live normally and that we can function normally. Thank you very much. And finally, let me point out, the Social Democrats Club will support both proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96385	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State Zdravko Jakob will speak finally, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96386	Honorable Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. First of all, thank you for your discussion and support regarding the proposed decisions. I can only say on my own behalf and the institutions that I represent here that everything that was mentioned in the debates, not only in the debates, but also in between, we will further consider and analyze to make our work even better, because we too have to learn from others and we have to study constantly. I thank all those who have recognized cyber in the draft budget, but so that there is no false understanding be assured that we will support such, all such amendments, but if you will not go to the expense of other items of the Ministry of Defence not, specifically this time went to the item of the plane, if you lack something to pay the bill then it is difficult to send such an account for payment. And let me also say briefly, very briefly that the Ministry of Defence was a completely transparent institution that works with, in accordance with the law and regulations, and I can say that the finding of the last internal audit was an unconditional opinion. I worked at that time so I felt the need not only for myself but for all the people who work at the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces to point it out. As far as that drug problem was concerned, make sure we don't want any of this to happen at all. We are part of society, but what was done after that is that it has taken a series of measures in terms of improvement and prevention not only at the level of the Ministry of Defence but also in HV units. I would also like to say that as far as I know, the Committee for Conflict of Interest has not made any decision yet, so that it does not prejudge matters. And as for war school, I'm just gonna tell you that I'm one of these proud members of that war school. I'm here today in front of you, but another little thing, it's practically in the background of Ukraine today. The first student of the war school as a stranger was in my generation, he was Ukrainian. He's having a hard time today. Maybe it's because of the truth and that we're at less than 2% of the budget today, and that in PESCO they're acceptable and civil structures. So we also have a number of projects that include civil structures in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, but also other EU member states because as I was saying, 25 countries are also involved in the institutions of these countries. Finally, I thank you once again for the debate and be sure that the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces will continue to carry out their tasks in accordance with the constitution, be sure that our borders are safe, that we will do our tasks in international missions and tasks as best as possible. We have received a lot of praise and I hope that we will be proud of doing these tasks further, but we will also jump in whenever it takes and wherever it takes to help our civilian structures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96387	We have one replica of the respected representative, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96388	It's just for the truth that I like more than Plato. So we've exceeded 2% of GDP with Rafael, so that's your Secretary of Defense's statement, don't just deceive the public. It doesn't matter, but we've singled out a lot less than 2% of GDP for defence, so with the purchase of these planes, we've gone over that 2%, but not to argue, these are huge funds for Croatia. Germany is only now, so in this situation it crosses 2% of GDP and is opting out more for the military. We've crossed 2% of GDP before this war.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96389	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96390	I would be very happy if you were right, but I must say that the truth is on my side and will always be on my side because I will not allow myself to say something that is not true for this speaker. That's why we're below 2%. I wish we were more than 2%, be sure because they'd be much easier to meet all the demands, the justified demands of our HV and our armed forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96391	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when we get the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96425	Honorable MPs, esteemed MPs good morning. Before we move on to today's debate, there's only one announcement. As the fourth point, we will discuss the election, appointments and resolutions because one is a change in one of the delegations. The second thing is that I'm going to propose that we conduct a united debate on the first two points of the agenda for today. I am doing this on the basis of a proposal from the Legislative Committee. So I propose a united debate on - Proposal for a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of NATO's activities and strengthened vigilance in Hungary and - Proposal for a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the activities of the EU's permanent structured cooperation project "Cibernetic Teams for Rapid Response and Mutual Assistance in Cyber Security" - Are you in agreement with this proposal? Thank you very much. Then we'll have a united discussion. This Decision is proposed by the Government on the basis of Article 54 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Defence Act and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Defence Committee, so I will now ask for further explanation of the respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Mr. Zdravko Jakop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96426	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Last week, a Declaration on Ukraine was adopted in this House of Commons, which strongly condemns Russia's nothing-provoked aggression against its sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence, and the Prime Minister presented you with a report on the situation in Ukraine. The attack on an independent peaceful democratic state is a bitter reminder that freedom, peace, security, stability cannot exist if we are not prepared to defend them. A war on European soil, something we all thought was a thing of the past once again angry. The Republic of Croatia, like other NATO and EU members, strongly condemned this Russian aggression and expressed full support for the Ukrainian people. The current security situation in Eastern Europe is one of the most serious threats to European security over the past decades. All NATO members including Croatia are deeply committed to the continuation of diplomatic efforts and efforts of a peaceful and non-violent solution to the current situation. At the same time, however, it is clear that NATO is ready to defend all its Member States against any threat. Due to the increasing deterioration of the security situation in Europe at a NATO meeting, defence ministers on February 16th and 17th, as well as at an extraordinary NATO summit on February 25th of this year, the NATO member states decided to significantly strengthen their stance on deterrence and defence, and to strengthen collective defence capacity. In recent months, NATO has also spent additional generation of its rapid response forces. In the east of the alliance, additional ground and air forces were deployed, while new maritime forces were deployed throughout NATO. Part of the reinforcement was carried out within the framework of the existing battle groups of NATO-based activities of enhanced forward presence in the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Estonia. The rest of the reinforcements concern, among other things, the new struggles of groups forming in Southeast Europe, Hungary, the Republic of Slovakia, the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania. They will act under the name of NATO's enhanced vigilance activity and will be established on the basis of the same concept of multinational forces as the already existing NATO battle groups, activities of strengthened forward presence in the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Estonia. The Republic of Croatia has supported the formation of these new battle groups as part of NATO's increased vigilance activity. The Ministry of Defence, which includes the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, carried out a breakdown of the possibilities of Croatian participation and we proposed the engagement of up to 70 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, in accordance with the Defence Act, it is proposed to the Croatian Assembly to decide on a decision that, within the framework of the battle group led by Hungary in 2022 and 2023, up to 70 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, with the possibility of rotation. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia will further develop their capabilities by participating in this NATO activity, increase interoperability with the forces of other Member States, and contribute directly to strengthening, deterring and collective defence of the North Atlantic Union. In addition, the Republic of Croatia reaffirms its commitment to implementing allied decisions and continues to build both international credibility and political and military credibility within the Union. As regards the proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in activities under the project of permanent structured cooperation of the EU cyber-response and mutual assistance teams in cyber-security, I would like to say that the decision of the EU Council of 11 December 2017 established a permanent structured cooperation or we often call under the name PESCO in which.../incomprehensible/... the participation of 25 EU Member States that have been jointly planning, developing and investing in joint capacity projects and thus improving the operational readiness and capacity of the armed forces. In accordance with the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decisions of 9 November 2017, Croatia has joined continued structured cooperation as part of the EU's common security and defence policy. One of the projects in which the Republic of Croatia participates and participates in several of them is the project cybernetic teams for rapid response and mutual assistance in cybersecurity. The Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in the framework of the project was signed in March 2020, right in Zagreb during the EU Council Presidency. In addition to the Republic of Croatia, the project also includes R. Lithuania as the leading country, R. Estonia, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, R. Poland and Romania. The aim of this project is to strengthen the capacity of cyber defence at European level, as well as to strengthen its own cybersecurity and the capacity of the countries participating in this project. The project itself includes exploring procedures in the area of cybersecurity in the EU, organising cybernetic exercises, simulations of cybercrisis and development of cyber defence tools, and the additional value of this project is the engagement of human resources that develop abilities and expertise. The Member States of the project shall appoint one representative in the CERT Council who, in the event of receipt of a request for support, shall make decisions on the activation of the team. In the event of a Council decision on the activation of the team, an analysis shall be carried out of the requests, needs and support options and shall be carried out in each participating country, the modality decision, the concrete contribution of the team's participation or the implementation of another form of support. The rapid response teams and mutual assistance in cybersecurity shall consist of experts in cybersecurity of the Member States participating in the project. The participating countries are changing on an annual rotational basis as team coordinators. Romania is currently coordinating the team. Depending on the conclusions of the team support analysis carried out, the team may provide support to the physical presence, and if the security of the members is ensured, or, as we all know, this can be done in a remote way. Teams have the ability to take preventive measures to assess cyber vulnerability and effectively use state and institution resources in strengthening the resilience of cyber-hazard management. We are witnessing an increase in cyber attacks on critical state infrastructure, and this area is certainly one of the domains of which will continue to grow and, accordingly, need to strengthen the capacity of resistance to cyber-hazards. This is also recognised in the Strategic Compassion, a document agreed at EU level at the final stage, in which the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs informed representatives and representatives of the HS several weeks ago at a joint session of the three parliamentary committees, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on European Affairs and the Defence Committee. In order to further strengthen the contribution of the Republic of Croatia, the European and national capacity to strengthen the resilience of cyber threats and cooperation with partners under the Defence Act, it is proposed to the HS to make a decision which, as part of the activities of the EU Permanently structured cooperation project, cyber-response teams and mutual assistance in cyber-security, in the rapid response team and mutual assistance in cyber-security, proposes up to 5 members of the OSCE. Activities under the project shall be carried out in the countries participating in the project, other EU Member States, institutions, bodies and EU agencies, EU Common Security and Defence Policy missions and other related activities and partners. The financial resources for the implementation of these decisions are secured in the state budget in the division of the Ministry of Defence. Dear MPs and representatives of HS, please support the decision-making process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96427	Thank you, Secretary of State. Now we'll start with the replicas. The first one is a colleague, Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96428	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. You yourself have said in the final presentation, and it also says in this Proposal for a Decision, that the financial resources are secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and 2023 at the division of the Ministry of Defence. I would like to know exactly how much the funds are involved, i.e. what the financial structure for implementing both of these decisions looks like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96429	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96430	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here, I'm going to set an example for those up to 70 people in Hungary, 38 million kuna, so that's not such a scary point of this, when we talk about how much it should be for those people who are involved in these projects. far less. [[Intruder: Comrade Bačić.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]] The only question is which equipment will be needed if we want to increase the ability of these teams. There may be a price going on higher, but it will also depend on the challenges that will be put before him.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96431	Comrade Bačić Ante, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96432	I thank the Honorable President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is now the hacker attacks today and the greatest threat to NATO's alliance and we see in the 21st century, it is often the first stage of any aggression and do not give God war and the threat of such species to one member can endanger the normal, entire NATO alliance. We must stress here that in 2021, a single exercise was held in Croatia, and this is NATO's biggest Cyprus Coalition exercise involving 34 countries, over 1,000 participants, and it is important to stress this is not only a defence sector problem, there were also colleges and the Ministry and others, other institutions that are private, which I am publicly interested in only your position i.e. analysis of the ministry itself based on this exercise as much as Croatia as the state of cybersecurity when we see and own cyber infrastructure and possible attacks tomorrow. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96433	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96434	Thank you very much for this question, Your Honor, I will just say that not only in this exercise, we participate in more exercises, not only this team, but also the structures that are in the Ministry of Defense, but also the other structures that are involved in the system. We would all like to have even more quality equipment and even more quality people and even more of these people, but they can only say that these activities or these threats are on a daily basis and that so far we have managed to respond to this in time and protect all data and not tell the institutions. So here we are talking about the number of people who would be involved in a concrete project of PESCO. We certainly have more people and greater abilities at national level.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96435	Thank you. Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96436	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, we are sending a smaller contingent of the Croatian military to Hungary, but not as a threat to anyone but as a measure of return, as a measure of solidarity with our allies on the eastern border of NATO. And it's important then to say that NATO's expansion caused not war in Ukraine but Russian aggression. The concept of creating a Russian world. The concept of creating a Russian sphere of influence. Had it not been for the expansion of NATO, perhaps today we would have seen a war unfortunately in the former countries of the Warsaw Pact. Perhaps in Poland or Hungary as it was in the end line and in '56. That's why NATO enlargement was, in fact, the expansion of a security zone where Croatia entered, where we must be solid. We must simply take our obligations very seriously, but it is an obligation to defend peace and to defend the international order.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96437	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96438	Thank you very much for finding out, I have nothing to add here, and I would just like to say that NATO is a defence organization whose members and we have to contribute to the goals we have practically entered and that we are in NATO organization.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96439	Comrade Saturday, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96440	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, you mentioned in your statement that there is a possibility of rotation in Hungary as part of this strong vigilance of NATO. What it really means for those first ones of ours, if actually there was this replacement rotation within these, this and next year that's on.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96441	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96442	Thank you very much for this matter, Your Honor. Rotation means there won't be the same people practically these two years and so on. Our years of international experience gives us this, let's say, the ability to estimate at what time interval and how it is best to rotate that structure of people. Whether it's all at once or in phases and so on, it means essentially rotation no. Yeah, not to bring it, we haven't asked you here to conclude that it's 70 since the beginning of 2022. We're already in '22, '23, but we're giving the Department of Defense an opportunity. To the armed forces to assess in some way even though we have assessed along with the Armed Forces which are part of the Ministry of Defence which would be the most favourable structure for this task of vigilance at the moment but in order to allow for this change or change in these inputs So it can rotate. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96443	Thank you very much. Comrade Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96444	We will support this motion for a decision, but with one feeling of dissatisfaction, we feel that it is not well explained. Two things are missing. What was missing is also missing in missions reports in the Baltic countries and Poland, which is a risk assessment. As a legislator, we as people who will raise our hands to send our people into certain dangers must know whether this mission today is low, medium or high risk. That's the minimum you should have given us. The second lacks a geopolitical explanation of the context. I would particularly like to hear from you today about what was happening with Hungary and what was Hungary's view on the new NATO troops on its soil in the first place. I would like to remind you that six days ago, the Hungarian foreign minister said that Hungary itself can defend its borders and that no additional NATO troops are needed. While three days ago they eased their stance, Hungarians said Monday they could do NATO, but only West of the country, west of the Danube. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] These are things you should have told us and explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96445	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96446	Your Honor, here I am going to say thank you for asking because it gives me the opportunity to answer this. It may take a long time, but I said in the opening section that this decision is to propose itself to the Croatian Parliament, i.e. All of you brought here in cooperation with the Armed Forces. I personally had the privilege of, to explain both the risks and the analysis of what and how we are doing so as to make sure that this is the best proposal that is currently in force because, in the opening part, I also said that there were other options because in other parts of the battle group of the forward presence. So here we are, taking care of the risk assessment, but also this geopolitical one. the position which, to which it would [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Unit i.e. The team acted. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96447	Comrade Deur, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96448	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, here today is the Day of the Croatian Defences of Vukovar, and we know under what circumstances the Croatian people have defended themselves in the threats they were at the time, today we have a similar situation in Ukraine and given all the threats that today in Europe the Croatian Army is the most powerful family in the world with which we have today's abilities, which are Croatian funds, the government has recognized the possibilities and all that is happening to us, please try to explain the abilities of the Croatian military today, because sometimes something that we didn't even have in our subconscious. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96449	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96450	Thank you very much for this esteemed representative, and then I'll use the opportunity to congratulate the Vukovar defenders on their day, basically our day and say that, that it's only good that today in a different situation than we were at the time when we had no weapons, no people, no organization. Today it is we who are members of both the EU and NATO that can participate, we were once recipients of international assistance and of this international mission, now it is those who actively participate in these organisations so that it is only a guarantee that things have changed and that we can count on Article 5 and collective security, but also the level of capabilities of the armed forces has increased drastically compared to earlier in the sense that, that the Armed Forces are ready to defend the territory of the Republic of Croatia, to participate in international to operations and contribute [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Civil structures if necessary. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96451	Please, Secretary of State, let's hold on for a minute. Here you are, Simičević, a colleague of Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96452	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, yes, not long ago we were alone, and we had an armed rebellion of Serbs and Chetniks and we barely actually succeeded, only thanks to the courage and loyalty and Croatian defenders from Vukovar, whom I also congratulate the day on, today we are in the NATO Alliance community and now we need to respect the international agreements we have signed. We need to be credible. It's not easy, it's not easy to send your sons, brothers, parents into armed conflicts, but if we've signed certain contracts, we just have to act like one. And that's the only guarantee that we're going to keep, preserve what we've acquired because we're living in a crazy world of crazy leaders who don't actually survive from anything to actually go into armed conflicts, and in the end it's never seen that well brought armed conflicts only death, blood and ruins. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96453	My fellow Simičević, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96454	Thank you very much, I agree with you that we should be credible about this and support the joint decisions made. It's one of them, but it's also the way we can maybe if we were in different circumstances we could possibly be different, but this is an assessment in line with the risk assessment and the possibilities. It's not always about what you want, it's about what's important and what you can't. And we've estimated that we can do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96455	Comrade Pavić Željko, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96456	Thank you very much. My dear secretary, here's to taking the opportunity to congratulate the Vukovar defenders on their day, and then the cybersecurity issue. We're a small country here, which has about 60 thousand IT's and that's quality experts. A large, enviable number of these experts actually came out of either the Armed Forces or were educated in Armed Forces schools so that we can say that these are certainly quality people and know the subject, the problem. To defend itself, to defend this cyberspace needs to be well-known and hardware infrastructure and it needs to be well-acquainted with protocols. Now my question is now, I haven't realized, I haven't actually found any data anywhere, whether at Union level it intends to unify equipment that will then be protected and defended or thought to diversify it because in fact these attacks of this would in some way be reduced in a different way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96457	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96458	Thank you very much for this question. I'll try to answer very briefly. This project under PESCO is for a number of countries. One of the objectives and tasks of this project is the unification and ability to work on other people's equipment. That's what I said to this, and that's one reason why that man who's in uniform can cross the border, and that's why we ask you to support that decision. But in the opening part, I said that not only are the countries that are members of PESCO and who have formed this group and this project but are also working for other EU institutions, and through this these interoperabilitys are essentially being extended to others. It would be the best thing you've said to be unique, but so far it's not no.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96459	Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96460	Dear Secretary of State, here I join the congratulators and defenders of the city of Vukovar for their day because today we remember the assembly of unarmed troops near Vukovar, near Bogdanovci for the former municipality of Vukovar under the leadership of the first defence commander of Vukovar Tomislav Mercep, all of them with great gratitude, and all the dead thanks and glory. My question is how many Croatian soldiers are currently outside Croatia's borders in various international missions under the auspices of the UN within the NATO alliance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96461	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96462	I'm glad you reminded me of the unarmed squads and I was one, not in this one you mentioned but in one other, it was such a time of this because I believe that it's kind of harder for all of us, and also, and in some ways, it's easier to figure out what's going on in Ukraine, and exactly they're answering 181 is currently not in different. So we have missions, missions, one part is in the UN, one in the EU is the most in Kosovo in KFOR, that's 141. It's not that much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96463	Comrade Ivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96464	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State the importance of Croatian membership in NATO in these complex geopolitical times is unquestionable and this formation of battle groups in which we will participate up to 70 soldiers speaks absolutely in favour of the fact. But whether the Ministry of Defence is considering, and in accordance with the legal opportunities it has for the people of the Republic of Croatia to prepare in a certain way for all that is happening in the area around us who, let's be honest, are not so far away from the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96465	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96466	And look, this is how I'm going to try on a respected MP to answer for a soldier, a professional soldier, the Ministry of Defense of the Armed Forces has no day, no night. So there is a need to stay awake 24 hours a day this 365 days a year to think as best and most efficient to respond to all the challenges with this analysis being done and monitored. So there is this possibility of a system of increasing power through the reserve, the law also allows civil military cooperation, etc., so that there is no degree of readiness at this time, but the reflection of both this activity and the task certainly is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96467	Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96468	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I have a question about this second point, and it's about cybersecurity. So, with a decision of up to five members of the Armed Forces will be involved in teams, what I'm interested in is another story. So the cybersecurity to deal with it is I would say something that is a terribly big challenge, something that we should deal with and something that has now proved to be really important. Whether there are some, so at ministry level, maybe some funding for young people's education at certain universities or not I know of some postgraduate studies or studies outside to be sufficiently and adequately trained. These are the things and these are the changes that happen in real time from day to day, and I think we should be prepared for that to be one of your ministry's tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96469	Here are your answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96470	Dear MPs, I will answer you that this is something that we do every day because if we don't do it, we wouldn't be able to give in to international activities a certain number of people. We'd like it to be more, and it might be even more, but in this assembly, but I don't think you were one of the ones who made the proposal, I think that when the amendments were 4.1 billion, the defence ministry budget would be reduced I don't know how much money we'd have left for such activities. But we just found it and it's our suggestion that this number of people be referred to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96471	Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96472	Dear Secretary of State you can tell us who else is with us in a group in Hungary or under the direction of Hungary this and the other personally I believe that at this point this is not a high-risk mission, however, as we will take care of God forbid this wounded and do not give God to the dead, we have one in that mission of the late Briscoe and several wounded. Do you have a vision that with some special program we have the Law on Croatian defenders, but what can happen is what you predicted for the victims of such NATO missions, how to treat these are military missions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96473	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96474	Being a soldier is always a risk. So we tried to make a suggestion that was least risky. You were on a parliamentary committee where I might have talked more specifically about the composition in the proposed composition that would look like this today. That's why I thank you for the matter of rotation, the possibility of this preparation or response in accordance with, with, with the requirements. It hasn't been built to the end of this, this unit of this, this one in Hungary so I can't answer you correctly. So we didn't ask here to give us permission to go for it tomorrow because these are the things that are still being negotiated and not defined until the end of this. But here's only for the morning information I spoke to the Chief of Staff. to prepare for this, too, because he was in Hungary yesterday. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And the activities are basically done. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96475	Comrade Shashin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96476	Dear Mr President, honourable state secretary, colleagues and colleagues, it is a fact that this aggression on Ukraine has practically surprised all EU members, regardless of what has been followed by this situation alertly and if in this difficult situation, we can say to the terrible situation that this has happened is the fact that this awareness of all EU members has increased on the need for common defence and the only way, the only possibility of common defence and so on in the Republic of Hungary. Of course, this calls for further efforts, above all, by all financial members, so I wonder if the resources provided for by the State budget of the Republic of Croatia are sufficient in this new situation for the needs of the Armed Forces. We know, we remember that individual parliamentary representatives, when voting the budget, advocated or sought a significant reduction in the budget for the needs of the Armed Forces. So now I'm interested in the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96477	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96478	Those of us at the Department of Defense would always love it more. It's the same as the home budget, but it's never been more than it is now. So we also recognized certain risks and needs before this unloved situation occurred in Ukraine. So the current budget of the Ministry of Defence is the highest so far 7 whole, just over 7.27 billion that covers a certain level and development, but I hope that there will continue to be understanding in this home for the needs of this Armed Forces and their readiness because a lot of it depends on financial resources as well. We all like to boast and say that the most important, most important man is heart and willingness to defend to the end of his homeland, but should also have resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96479	Comrade Karlic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96480	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here, first of all, I would like to join my colleagues' congratulations to the defenders and defenders of Vukovar, their day, and by the way, I would like to congratulate the Minister of Defense's birthday, which is the minister, so today, so here, I wish him a lot of success in his work. Here, it's already been said several times how important it is that we are a NATO member, especially right now, and I don't think that anyone is challenging and armed forces with such activities, departures and joint participation in others... In any case, they strengthen both their strength and their defence readiness and credibility this, as a state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I'd like to hear from you, given that there is still some thinking in the public section that perhaps we, here, are driving or sending Croatian soldiers to NATO, what is the interest of our Croatian soldiers? I've heard in the conversation that they actually want to leave, they can't wait for us to grant it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96481	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96482	We rejoice on one side, for that reason because it is not a problem, that interest is far greater than the possibility of these fills of these places which I'm numerically just before, far, far greater because through such a mission, not only that the system has certain benefits in terms of intraoperability,... etc., of this, these are certain challenges, a man for it and becomes a soldier to act and work as a soldier, and such an environment gives him that possibility, so that interest is far, far greater than, and we must take into account this and the national interests and our capabilities and capabilities of the armed forces, national needs, etc., so that we must be, thinking as many people of this, send over, i.e. ask your permission to go on international missions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96483	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96484	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I think it is important to send today a message that participation in the defence alliance for the Member States of that alliance is important. But it can only work if we all send a message together to threaten any of us together and we are ready to act and protect our partner because if such a threat happens to us tomorrow, then we are going to ask for this kind of assistance and this kind of support, and if we are not ready to support each other, then tomorrow we will be able to ask that other one to support us and that is why Croatia's participation in this mission is extremely important, but let me ask you two very specific questions. First of all, how many of our soldiers are currently participating in NATO's battle groups along the border towards the Russian Federation and secondly, can we expect an increase in that number in the foreseeable future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96485	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96486	Well, I thank you for this first part, and I have absolutely nothing to add to that. As far as exactly, I said in general a very small number, on the fingers of one hand we can count what is currently in operations, meaning what is a little closer, so I won't say negligible because no human life, no human being is negligible, no. Second, so none will go without your approval, means this. ... That's why we made a proposal specifically for this operation by 8:00. I would like to, and I believe that all of you here in this hall, that there is no need for these numbers to increase, I think that we would all be the happiest that it is, but we have to have different options, this and be prepared for different options. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96487	Comrade Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96488	Thank you very much, Mr. President of HS, Mr. Secretary of State, so today's decision-making and debate on sending 70 soldiers in NATO's wake-up forces to Hungary, I would say requires this debate which can also be caused by the brutal aggression the Federation of Russia has made towards Ukraine. Is this just enough or given the significant worsening of the security situation in the environment, and in our neighborhood, public support is happening to Russia's aggression on Ukraine, whether our classy reserves, homekeeping can do exercises, equipment, and anything in order not to give God's moments of need to be ready? for further activities? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96489	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96490	I believe and I will repeat that I would like to, and I believe that everyone here should not reach a system that would.../incomprehensible/... or ask for an increase in the strength of both NATO and national level, but the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces have a systematic... The forces that include the ones that you've listed, so hopefully that won't happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96491	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96492	After these questions asked by colleagues where we didn't get an answer about some assessment of how many demands will be made for sending additional armed forces to different missions within NATO, I am interested in whether there are any security assessments given the unstable environment in the region itself, how many members of the Croatian Armed Forces and all other forces, on the basis of what is mentioned by this fellow Djakic, we need him here in the Republic, given the unstable environment in the region?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96493	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96494	The number of members that Croatia has, the Croatian Army has, is sufficient to respond to all tasks defined by the Constitution and the law, so here, I think I responded, and systematic... There is no, but it is not true that there are no additional requirements, additional assessments, both at NATO level and at national level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, I may have, I say, spoken in more detail on the Assembly Committee about where members of the Assembly board could be and directly familiar with those who are obliged to work, not only for the national level but also for NATO.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96495	Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96496	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State. The security situation in Eastern Europe has been the worst in decades. Of course, the EU and NATO are trying to have a diplomatic impact on the calming of the situation, but it is also quite clear that it was necessary and necessary to send their forces to Eastern Europe, it now seems to the southeast of Europe where Croatia will participate, but as already several times in recent days, the security situation in the environment, especially in those neighbouring countries that are not NATO members, is worrying about Russia's major influence, the growth of radicalism and nationalism. The SOA chief also said something about this, so the issues that come from the representatives where we express some concern and we further ask if we are ready for all the challenges that await us, I think they are justified. My question is, will the additional NATO forces be needed in Croatia because of the security situation in the environment?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96497	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96498	Excuse me, last word, will it be? No, I don't. [[/Adversity President: Needed in Croatia. Here you go.]] That option is not being considered, so I will be very specific, but this one, I would like to say that we are following the situation, so both in the neighbourhood and in Southeast Europe, and we are NATO members, so we have information in that part and there is no need for concern. At least now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96499	Last line, Comrade Brkan, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96500	Dear Secretary of State, given the war in Ukraine and the open aggression Russia has made in Ukraine, it is also in our interest that Croatian Armed Forces be as equipped as possible, as qualified as possible and as ready to defend our country as possible, whether it is land, air or navy. As you yourself have written in the reasoning of the Decision that new combat groups are being formed within the framework of actively strengthened vigilance where the main headquarters has proposed 70 members to further develop their abilities, increase interoperability with other countries' forces. How has this number of 70 members to be sent, is that some extent, have given so much to other countries, so will we, or can that figure possibly be increased to get as many Croatian soldiers as possible to gain these additional capabilities in co-operation with NATO forces? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96501	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96502	Your Honor, I thank you very much for this matter. It's up to 70, we'd say what, I said intro, I wish it was more, but it didn't come to mind, so it's in collaboration with this, NATO members and the assessment, but also our options of this moment, there's been that number. As for that element, what you said, equipped, normally, here, someone who comes from that mile, it's good to have a good tool, so this one, so please continue to support this High House when there's going to be a budget debate, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96503	I thank the Secretary of State, you can return to your post because the replica is no longer available, so now I call on the committee's rapporteurs, will they take the floor? Yeah. The chairman of the Defence Committee, dear colleague Vidovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96504	I would like to thank the President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, dear colleagues. Therefore, the Defence Committee held a debate at its 20th session held on 9 March 2022 on the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of NATO's enhanced vigilance activities in Hungary and also on the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in activities under the project Permanently structured cooperation of the EU, cybernetic response teams and mutual assistance in cyber security. In addition to the proposals for a decision, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also submitted a decision on the prior consent of the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Supreme Commander of the OSCE. The Committee discussed the proposals in question on the basis of Article 1(2) of the Rules of Procedure. 71 HS’s Rules of Procedure as a home working body. At a meeting of the Committee, the proposer's representative said that in response to the emergence of new security threats and the strengthening of instability in Eastern Europe, Member States agreed at a meeting of NATO defence ministers in February 2022 on the need to strengthen border protection, collective security and NATO defence. The establishment of combat groups in R. Poland, R. Lithuania, R. Latvia, R. Estonia is particularly witnessing the establishment of a strengthened front presence of NATO forces on the eastern wing of the Alliance that activities are carried out solely to deter and strengthen collective defence. The further deterioration of the security situation in Eastern Europe is one of the most serious threats to European security in the past decades. In response to the new threats in Europe, NATO has deployed additional forces in the East of the Alliance in the framework of existing battle groups and groups of strengthened fronts, to ensure further strengthening of the Allied, Disabilities and Defence, it is proposed to establish new additional NATO combat groups in central and Southeastern Europe, i.e. Hungary, R. Slovakia, Romania and R. Bulgaria, which will carry out activities in parallel with NATO-enhancing activities. The Republic of Croatia supported the proposal to establish new NATO-enhancing battle groups, the proposed Decision proposes to refer up to 70 OSCE members, with the possibility of rotating Hungary in 2022 and 2023 under the Hungary-led battle group. During the debate, the Committee members asked about the impact of participation in this activity on Croatian defence capabilities, in this respect it was pointed out that the participation of the OSCE in this activity will improve further development of capabilities, increase the level of... with the powers of other Member States and contribute to strengthening the deterrence of both national and collective defences. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously, with 11 votes to support both proposals and decided to propose to the HS to adopt a Decision on the participation of the OSCE as part of NATO's enhanced vigilance activities in Hungary and also, the Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in activities under the cybernetic, permanent structured EU cooperation, cyber-response teams, mutual assistance in cyber security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96505	I'm opening a debate now. The first is the club of representatives of HSLS and reformers and respected counterpart Klasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96506	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, distinguished secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The NATO defence ministers' meeting on February 16th and 17th and the February 25th extraordinary summit found that the current security situation in Eastern Europe has been one of the most serious threats to European security since the end of World War II. Since its draft in 1949, NATO has successfully protected all its members off, thanks exclusively to the idea of collective defence, with its deterrent power, NATO has secured 77 years of peace and prosperity in Europe. NATO is ready to defend its members against any threat, so over the past months it has spent additional generation of rapid response forces and has deployed additional forces in the east of the Alliance within the existing battle groups and groups of strengthened frontal presence and is also seeking to establish additional combat groups in Southeast Europe. Farthest contribution has been made by the American forces this time. NATO is caring for the security of nearly a billion people from its members, and therefore new threats have been triggered by a significant increase in strength. Therefore, additional financial investments are needed to defend all NATO members in order to maintain a NATO defence system consisting of a combination of the latest armed systems and platforms and training forces for joint growth without delay. The NATO Alliance and the Alliance of Values, which includes individual freedom, human rights, democracy and the rule of law, these common values are the basis for what NATO actually defines and how it works. The future of defence reform in the Republic of Croatia must be determined by adapting its defence systems, tasks and obligations arising from Croatian membership in the NATO Alliance. Alliance members will have to transform their entire security system in such a way as to be able to organise defences against new security threats to their own forces and in their own territory. It is important to encourage countries to also negotiate private military and intelligence services, as the United States and some other NATO members do. In the future, we can expect to redefine NATO's military criteria, and in line with the requirements stemming from the current transformation of NATO. NATO membership also covers all obligations under the Article. 5 agreements that the attack on one member is an attack on all allies. We cannot agree to attack countries in Europe with weapons, not to attack civilians in a non-discriminatory manner and to change borders by force of occupation. We have an obligation, in the event of an attack on the territory of NATO member states. The fact that Croatia is in such geostrategic space, that the collective defence system is a very useful thing, participation in NATO and the EU is crucial for Croatia. Otherwise, we would be condemned to the turbulence of the Western Balkans calling for Belgrade and Banja Luka. Today, few who can even imagine a different path for our country that has not been out of the war so long ago. Issuing defence and access to defence preparations and potentials would be different today if Croatia were not a member of NATO alliance and it would be more complex and expensive, and yet they would be much more insecure than we are now. Therefore, from the populist attempts of some high officials to challenge the principle of solidarity and promote their own independent approach, and all for the sole purpose of self-promising and cheap political promotions, should be clearly distanced, a team before seriously jeopardising international status and reputation of the Republic of Croatia as part of the transatlantic partnership. Already, the very fact that these steps have experienced broad publicity and support from Moscow or its mediators speaks sufficiently about the failures involved. In these highly complex security conditions, which intensify the action and potential of peace throughout Europe, everyone and anyone who emptys the populist questioning of the principles of NATO collective defence is very dangerous. In addressing these crises and suppressing attempts to destabilise our immediate environment, both the EU and NATO will play a decisive role. The Republic of Croatia supported the proposal to form new battle groups in the framework of NATO-enhancing activities and to establish additional NATO battle groups in Central and Southeast Europe, i.e. Hungary, Slovakia, Romania and Bulgaria. In accordance with this, the Ministry of Defence and the OSCE Chief Staff proposed that up to 70 OSCE members be engaged. HSLS welcomes this decision that Croatia is actively involved in NATO's activities by sending up to 70 soldiers to neighbouring Hungary, and I am personally sorry that for more than 20 years of systematic devastion of the Croatian Army we are not able to engage more actively in the activities of the enhanced vigilance of the NATO alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96507	The second debate of the Club of Representatives of CENTR and GLAS and respected colleague Mrak Taritaš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96508	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia has been a NATO member since 2009. Our soldiers participated in numerous UN, NATO and EU operations and missions even before we became members of the Alliance. The first was the UN mission to Sierra Leone in 1999. Our soldiers' first participation in NATO's mission, or members of the military police, have been small in Afghanistan since 2003. We have participated or participated in missions in Lebanon, Western Sahara, Kosovo, Poland, Lithuania, Chad, Central African Republic, etc. I am sure that every such participation strengthens our Armed Forces, that we acquire new knowledge and skills, and that we deepen cooperation and trust with our allies and partners. Unfortunately, some new dark clouds of bloody war operations have prevailed over Europe in our immediate neighborhood. Ukraine is a state-run border with a car coming from Zagreb in six and a half hours. It is about the same as from Zagreb to Dubrovnik. Between Ukraine and Croatia, between Russian tanks and rocket launchers, and only one of us is Hungary, fortunately a NATO member. Although I had no doubts about Croatia's membership in NATO or when we came in, it is never a subject for any of us to think about on a daily basis in normal life. But one of the first thoughts that went through my head on February 24th, so two weeks ago, only two weeks ago, Putin attacked Ukraine was lucky to be a NATO member. The idea of NATO as an organisation itself says it guarantees the freedom and security of its members through political and military means. In a political sense, NATO promotes democratic values and enables members to consult and cooperate on defence and security issues in order to address the problem, build trust and prevent conflicts in the long term. In a military sense, NATO is committed to a peaceful conflict resolution. But if diplomatic efforts fail, it has the military's ability to handle the crisis. And this comes first of all to the often mentioned Article 5 on the common defence of all Member States. Unfortunately, and unfortunately, I can't stress enough. The war in Ukraine reminded us of this security net that NATO provides us with. Protection of borders and collective security suddenly became the main news. We've all been together for decades that have dragged us into the idea that peace has been given to us and that there will be no more wars in Europe. This has now proved to be a naive and dangerous illusion. What is quite certain is that we will have the economic consequences of this situation. Prices of food and energy have been rampant before the invasion and sanctions of Russia, and what is actually waiting for us none of us can know exactly. What neither of us can know exactly is what Vladimir Putin's plan is, in fact, how long this situation will last and whether the war in Ukraine will spill over its borders, and this is a particularly unpleasant reality in which we live. That's why collective deterrence and defense efforts on the Eastern wing of the Alliance are something that at this point has every justification and I don't see any alternative to those measures. Battle groups have already been established in Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. At the moment we face the greatest threat to European security for a long time, a decision has been taken to establish additional fighting groups in Hungary, Slovakia, Romania and Bulgaria. This is called enhanced vigilance activities and it is about multinational forces composed of members of the Armed Forces of the Member States. As part of enhanced vigilance, up to 70 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia should participate as part of a combat group led by Hungary that would be deployed in that country. Since the proposal for a decision states that we have reached 70 members on the basis of the proposal of the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces, I assume that it is a real figure that we can refer to by ensuring all the necessary conditions for participation in such units and as regards both the quality and the material conditions as requested by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Republic has given his prior consent to this decision. One detail in this proposal is the one about the financial resources needed to implement this decision. The fact is that in response to the State Secretary's reply to one of the replicas given by one parliamentary secretary, the State Secretary replied by what means is a word, because the decision itself states that the funds are secured in the 2022 and 2023 budget, so it is good that he gave this information orally, but I see no reason why it could not have been written and written as usual in the proposals we have written. But what I'm stressing all the time I'm going to point out one more time. Unfortunately, the word cannot be avoided in the debate on this decision. Unfortunately, the security situation in Europe has turned completely overnight. Unfortunately, at the borders of the EU and NATO, people are killed by a strong and dangerous military force, and unfortunately our soldiers must also participate in the increased efforts of deterrence and defence by believing that we all agree that our greatest hope for that part of the defence will not have to come, but also when it comes to deterring and when it comes to defence we now see that our soldiers and our country are part of a large and powerful defence alliance. Since this is a debate on the united two points, so first and second, I'm going to end up refering to something also to cybersecurity. We are absolutely a position and I personally believe that cybersecurity is extremely important, that it is absolutely good that ours, so up to 5 are members who participate in the rapid response teams and mutual assistance, it is good to take care of it because indeed not only now but also in the future it will be one of the new visions and ways in which certain things will have to be done and some things have to go, and to the end to make clear what position our club has been related to, not so long ago was the budget and when it was the budget of the Republic of Croatia we have given the amendment that the item relating to cyber security increases which, of course, at that point from the level of the Ministry of Defence was rejected, of course as soon as the item or requirement came from the opposition then it was not accepted, but rejected, and the explanation was what I want to read and what I think it should be, with what I am going to end this debate is the position that I think about it. The explanation was modern warfare and modern defence is largely being fought in the virtual world. The consequences of such a war, however, are not virtual but very real and can be the most serious threat to national security. That is why we believe it is necessary to increase investment in the development of cybernetic capacity of personnel within the Ministry of Defence. This was an explanation of the amendments, and the amendment required an increase in that item, of course, that the competent ministry refused it, but this is the attitude and importance of cybersecurity, the importance of education, the importance of investment in knowledge, because investment in knowledge always comes back to you in any world and real and virtual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96509	Now, on behalf of the Mosta Club, the esteemed colleague Rasdic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96510	My colleagues and colleagues, when I talk about these things, there is always that problem between theory and practice because we are now speaking theoretically and clearly Croatian interests, we are members of the NATO Pact, we have our own interests, but also our own obligations, it is clear that in the Hungarian Pannonian Nizi it is better to defend Croatia than at the Croatian borders, all this is very clear. However, we are not some abstract individuals who are now working geostrategic, interesting and material calculations, but are people of blood and flesh and people who have a history of their own, and I understand that every Croatian who knows anything about Croatian history is a momentary feeling of discomfort and caution when it comes to sending Croatian soldiers beyond the national or ethnic borders. Unfortunately, our history is like this, and I don't think there are comparable people in Europe, the books are written about it, and I've done some of this myself by analyzing the depictions of Croats in Italian culture where one of the dominant was the model of Croats as a cruel soldier in the Austrian service in the 19th century. They left the bones of our people for centuries away from Croatia, left bones and on the eastern battlefield, property miners from Belgium ended and left bones in Spain, Dalmatian youngsters left bones in Sutjeski, which today is the border of Montenegro and Republika Srpska, nothing to do with Croatia and Croats today, nor will they ever have again. Their peers may have left bones in Stalingrad convinced each other and those before them to do so in some Croatian interest because it is better than closer. All these historical reasons and painful Croatian experiences when we draw the line and look at all of this for every Croatian soldier would have said better if he had stayed in the house if he had not interfered, had not gone either to Stalin or Sutjesk because where Austria is, where is, where is the ideal that led them to Sutjesk. However, today we are where we are. We'll support this, but as I said in the replica, there remains one feeling of inadequacy. It is, inadmissible how this proposal is presented. I'm going to do what I said in the replica one more time. We as Assembly representatives who will raise our hands here to send our people beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia where there is a certain risk, and the risk is that someone should not return to God in a tin box, so you should look into the eyes of your parents or your wife or husband. So, in order to bear that risk and raise our hands, we need to have more detailed information on where people are sending, above all, a risk assessment of the minimum we should have received here as well as those missions on Poland and Baltic countries, and whether it was a mission that was currently low, medium or high risk. We didn't get that, as we didn't get a more serious explanation of the geopolitical relations and context in which he sent people. So we see here how, in the proposal, it explained that NATO members adopted an action plan for preparedness at the Wels 2014 summit to create new strengthening of the existing operational capabilities of NATO. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It was already the first war in the east of Ukraine and Russia had an action against Crimea and we can say pseudo sanctions to Russia today because I'm going to tell them what they looked like. It was then stated that the NATO summit in Warsaw in July 2016 concluded that implementation of this action plan was successfully translated and decided to act in two main directions by further strengthening collective deterrence and defence and strengthening the eastern presence of the NATO Pact, etc. In 2016, the European Commission under the pressure of Germany to pass all rules of competition gives a monopoly de facto Gazprom to the state-owned Russian gas pipeline Opal in Germany, and as Russia has been under sanctions for 2 years because of Crimea and more. You should keep that in mind. We need to clarify what happened before the Russian attack on Ukraine in order to protect ourselves both as Croatia and as the EU, so that similar problems do not happen again thanks to groups and/or incompetent people. We have been explained that the Republic of Croatia has supported the proposal to establish new battle groups within the framework of NATO's enhanced vigilance activities and with this regard to the Ministry of Defence, the main headquarters has implemented a breakdown of capabilities and has proposed engagement of up to 70 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of the activities of strengthening the vigilance of the battle group under Hungary's leadership in Hungary, up to 70. It is not explained why 70, why it is not 50 or 150, as it is not clear why we have sent people to Latvia or Poland before. We are members of the NATO Pact and we must fulfil our obligations, but in what way we bring, first we do not know what percentage we are committed to sending people on missions, is that 1 or 2 or 3% of the people we make available for missions whether they are NATO, EU or UN. Slovenia, for example, mainly sends all people to Kosovo, thus making its quota. Why Kosovo? Well, because he has an economic interest. Slovenian products are sold there as they are during Yugoslavia today or as they estimated to be safer in Kosovo than on the eastern front. So we'd like to hear what thoughts led to decisions to be sent here or there and so many people. What surprised me very much and that I asked a question in the replica, and I didn't get an answer, is Hungary's unwillingness to accept it at all. So, 4.3 days ago, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijaretto said after a meeting of the foreign minister in Brussels that Hungary also protects the southeastern side of NATO, and said, Hungarian defence forces can protect Hungary and no additional force is needed, the Hungarian foreign minister added. He won't. So until a few days ago, the option was that 70 people would go there to Hungary, apply, check and within 24 hours return to Croatia if necessary. Following the escalation of the further war, we learn that Hungary will allow NATO troops to deploy in western Hungary and arms shipments to move its territory to other NATO member states, but not to Ukraine. The NATO military regulation will allow transit by land and air through Hungary and Hungary west of the Danube. It also allows NATO forces to transit in other cases such as participation in training exercises and training missions except in cases where their final destination is Ukraine. It's a Hungarian stand. So, those who are as hosts actually don't want some strong presence of NATO forces including these 70, when they had to at least if it wasn't in the eastern part near Russia so they wouldn't get angry, but west of the Danube. Why didn't you tell us and explain it? If we're sending people out there we need to know if they're now waiting for them with open arms, we're going to super stop now all together or cross-will, and let's go west there to be, to be less visible. It's serious stuff. On the one hand, there is talk of some kind of community, so we heard about the NATO summit in Warsaw, and on the other hand there is still a fundamental problem of the EU, a key problem, which is that the EU has never come to life as some supranational creature that was trying to push past what was originally imagined. That the EU does not have the possibility of self-defense and that it is primarily a military threat because it is unequal. Well, they could see that in these weeks that preceded the Russian attack that was not a harmonised European foreign policy, but everyone is leading their own, for your own account you go to Scholz to talk to Putin, for your Macron who every little phoned him after the war started. So let's not be naive. Each EU country is currently looking at its own interests. Hungary does not allow the transport of weapons to Ukraine, reluctantly agreed three days ago only to additional NATO forces, but only west of the Danube. Germany looks at its interest and opposes real sanctions, which are those related both to gas and oil. The Great Britain is in trouble because they're far away because they're very little dependent on Russian energy. So everyone here is looking at their own interests, so let's look at our own. We will support this, we are a member of the NATO Pact, but I hear a branch of salis and with a lot of questionnaires that I think we need to get answers from both the Ministry and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96511	Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Bauk, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96512	Thank you, Mr. President. The challenge is that when two generals speak behind me, there will be this, things are actually very simple. So simple that I found a relatively good description in a low-school reader, I'll read it. The accident struck the quail, and her house was set on fire by a shadow to see what had happened. That's how you need the words of the shadow, and throw the dry grass into the fire. From somewhere came the swallows into the beak brought a drop of water and dropped it into the fire, from the dry grass that cast it into the fire the shadow of the fire did not become larger, nor from a drop of water which was lower by the owner of the fire, but therefore the quail knew who was her friend and who was her enemy. Not these 70 soldiers will save Ukraine, not these 70 soldiers will save NATO, but they will clearly show those to whom Croatia is and which side we are on, and this may be the time until last Thursday, the last time it was already being tactile, but this is the time when we need to clearly determine which side we are on. In this respect, the SDP club will support the Government proposal and the decision of the President of the Republic to give consent to refer up to 70 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic to Hungary, so that when appropriate orders are made in the number in which it is operated, etc. Listening to colleagues who have been talking about these topics lately, the issue of both the equipment and the readiness of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to defend the borders of their homeland, I think their HDZ colleague said so today. However, since joining NATO "our country's borders" are at least as far as the east is concerned at the borders of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania and Turkey, and the borders of the Netherlands, Spain or Germany are at our borders, at the border with Serbia, BiH and that is, Montenegro and Albania and Macedonia are in NATO, so it is rounded up. Therefore, by observing this light of NATO entry, we have committed ourselves to defending Hungary, Poland, Lithuania, etc. that now they can name some other U.S., as they have committed to defending us. We didn't commit ourselves, so we don't do that, and I can see that other NATO countries are not doing that to defend Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova and those countries that aren't in NATO at least not by direct military involvement. The way NATO's alliance is helping Ukraine at this time, and looking at this proposal, it seems to me that I didn't find the word of Ukraine anywhere in the government's proposal in an explanation, so it doesn't say any of the words of Ukraine, but actually the forward presence is quite connected to what's happening today in Ukraine. So, the way they defend or help Ukraine NATO members is not military, not directly involved with the military, is not even closing airspace above Ukraine because of a certain type of tactics or perhaps a real danger to NATO, and then Croatia does not come into direct war with the Russian Federation. As a result, everything remains more or less on aid and economic sanctions. But there are also certain calculations of EU member states, not NATO, and NATO, but it is primarily about the EU, to protect its economic interests, or to make the price they will pay due to economic sanctions for them as little as possible. I have to say that since last Thursday, I've been having a dilemma about whether it's the right approach or whether the calculation with as little price as possible is a better calculation with a lower price and indirect feeding of the Russian war machine because anyone who buys gas and oil from Russia pays them and feeds the Russian war machine at this point, as terrible as it sounds, but that's the case. Is this a more legitimate and better option or that this calculation stops and that it actually realizes that the possible feeding of a war machine that might not only fit on what it is now, and maybe we don't know that because in the war decisions depend on a human factor, and it's the most unpredictable? Will it actually be a higher price than it will be paid if that machine does not stop in due course and returns to normal diplomatic frameworks? But not to be the one who's thought to be the fastest in the barricades, but not the wisest, so that I can stop a little further lobbying and criticism of the Russian Federation's policy towards my neighbors, I'll stick to this. We will support the proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of NATO's enhanced vigilance activities in Hungary and will support the proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces in activities under the EU's permanent structured cooperation project "Cibernetic Teams for Rapid Response and Mutual Assistance in Cyber Security" proposed by the Government on March 3rd, to which the President of the Republic of Croatia agreed on 1st of March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96513	Now, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives' Club, an esteemed colleague, Ante Prkacin, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96514	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. How are you? It's been a while. Did you want me? Since these ten minutes are just enough for me, I can make a little bit of an introduction like this. So I was invited to speak on this subject because of some war experience knowledge of history and life and conflict and war and since the Homeland Movement has advanced, they have started working on committees and the committee has also drawn up that very interesting report for me. You know, I don't really like reading the papers, but this is a report I was willing to make because, uh, Josip Jurcevic, who knows the war and history and the history of the conflict, did one great thing, but how many military and literary works would not have fallen on me if I had read it if I hadn't heard two three colleagues who had said at least 30, 40 or 50% of what was in the report. Furthermore, I have also looked back on you distinguished colleagues and colleagues, and I listen very carefully to you, and when I'm not here, and I repeat that this is a high-quality council meeting, a quality meeting. So, already in replicas, I encountered something very interesting with my colleague Grumoja, my colleague Petir, and especially fellow Djakic, who asked questions, and what is happening in our neighborhood and a few other colleagues mentioned, here is this one, this one before me, performing Arsenija Bauk said that he was missing Ukraine and he talked about Ukraine a lot. I miss BiH along with Ukraine, because today we need to make two decisions to send 70 people, 70 members of the armed forces to Hungary and 5 members of the armed forces, whether Lithuania or Latvia, to Lithuania, which is fine, but 5 hundred members of the armed forces with the complete equipment of the commandos are coming to BiH and with, with armor, with anti-arms ready to operate tomorrow. When Ukraine is mentioned and all of this is mentioned, which you have been mostly talking about for the last 14-15 days, it is mostly a reaction to this extremely difficult political situation, the shocking situation in Ukraine, and so NATO reacts and so we accept this reaction, and that is why our soldiers are going to Hungary and that is why our soldiers are going to Lithuania. However, it is often mentioned that there is a fear of overdoing the conflict from Ukraine to BiH, and I am very sorry that it is not given a little more attention. I even wanted to ask for an addition to the agenda, so I would suggest that we discuss what is happening in BiH as very important political activities take place in BiH and the arrival of these 5 hundred people who come to BiH are politically abused. Seeing and following what's going on in Ukraine, I'm telling you that the Russians, Arsen, you're gonna stop telling me I kept silent while you were talking, don't bother me, please, so following what's going on, I see that those five hundred people and all their equipment being politically abused because given the situation on Putin and Russia's battlefield, it's not even the end of your mind to move anywhere, they'd give the bank to get in the car after three to get out, but it's hard to get out of the car. That Putin claimed to be Peter the Great's successor, 1711. Peter the Great was surrounded by the Turkish army and you know what he did, handed over heavy artillery, handed over weapons, stopped smart people, so we agreed. The Turks could have won the war, but lost 10,000 people and killed 20,000 Russians, and they made a nice deal to leave the Turks with heavy artillery and everything else, and the army almost unbroken to return home. Now for a moment this BiH, the spilling of danger, the military is coming to BiH to protect BiH from Dodik and Vukic. Throughout history, Serbia has never been in a more difficult political situation than it is now. The wolf is like a roast goat, right, Stier, you know that. It has never been more difficult for him, on the one hand, to justify that cheap Russian gas and more than that, it needs to be preserved and emotional to win, to win tomorrow's elections, and on the other hand, Vucic wants to enter the EU intimately, and he is in great pain. Dodik is in a similar situation with the fact that he does not want to join the EU, and at the end of their mind neither is causing any conflict in BiH. This is what someone abuses and those who seek sanctions for Dodik should first respond when sanctions will be imposed on Zeljko Komsic and whoever produced him and who installed him because he is the most constructive element in BiH. He's a political phenomenon, an intellectual man, so I won't say it, but nothing special, and a moral niche like that didn't appear in politics. And as much as it bothers me that you also have in the Croatian wise, you have a team that never loved Croatia, you have a team that loved Croatia, so because of political conflicts within the HDZ, they hated HDZ and hated Croatia, so I don't know who and how they talk such nonsense, they talk such nonsense, they do harm to the Croatian people, because the Croatian people and BiH are like-minded at this point. The only people who care about BiH are Croats. Thank you, Mr. President, I'm a little bit of a jump on the subject, but it's very, very close, it's not naked, I have more to talk about. Look out, today...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96515	No, no, today, today is, today is very good, we follow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96516	Yes, today attacking Milorad Dodik is the same thing as being in '91. when we received weapons from Hungary, Croatia does not know where to go and does not know where to go. The Hungarians give us weapons and then a philosopher shows up and remembers Coloman Arpadovic, which is 1097. on the Iron, he beat up the Croats, and we fought the Hungarians. He who attacks Milorad Dodik today is either a national traitor or a mercenary or a total fool and unfortunately has both species. So, I am particularly pleased to say this in the Croatian Parliament because there was no better opportunity and better time to solve the political problem of the Croats in BiH and BiH, the tensions have been strengthened and there is no more lurking and attention coming to me, hmm a saying that I do not like very much, is out of use to say, popo and Bobba, it is somewhere Vasil Tupurkovski and Kiro Gligorov, and also the late Stipe Šuvar they said that those years and days when Yugoslavia fell apart, and so it is time to tell you Popup and Bobba Bob. To know who is the true destructive in BiH. That's what needs to be ordered from this Croatian Parliament. Never has this Croatian Parliament and Croatian politics had as much weight as it is now, and Europe has never been more ready to react and to take advantage of the opportunity because we cannot influence events and events in Ukraine, but we can take advantage of the opportunity to fix BiH and improve the situation of Croats in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96517	We are now going to the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Honored counterpart Sacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96518	Thank you very much. Dear President, state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public, the Croatian Sovereigns' Club will support these decisions regardless of their lack of explanation. I agree with my colleague, Rasputic, who noticed it correctly. No geostrategic framework is given, but well globally, in these conditions of our Ministry of Defence's conduct, it has decided to act quickly without any further arguments, with strict words, the President of the Republic who has made his decision in this regard. However, this context of sending our Croatian soldiers out of our country of Croatia will certainly cause and is now challenging many questions both among the Croatian people and, moreover, we can say openly to our enemies that the Russian Federation and President Putin Hrvatta have marked us from a few days ago, and in this whole context we have to live continuously with it, all of our state issues and decisions must be consumed by such a burden that we bear on our weak feet. Next, surely, we must invest more energy, more power and more money in the development of our defence capabilities, our military security capabilities. There is no longer any reason to delay the life of our regiments, some of which, yesterday on the Defence Committee, the reserves of the Croatian, the Croatian armies have no reason to open and truly serious and responsible, we have not been able to discuss here and here in this Croatian Assembly which forms of military training for our Croatian youth must be proposed, we must adopt, because the state of security, I think to everyone, well Mrs. Mrak Taritash said, many of us have in recent years, with one unauthorized naiveity, turned to the state of security in the Republic of Croatia and laid our hand on the very mention of strengthening the defence capabilities of the Croatian army from buying planes to armored and all sorts of other potentials. However, it is now a reality. What none of us could have imagined was this that one great Russia could be so openly in this present society protected by the UN, the Council of Europe, the EU, NATO, all systems so brutally and openly this neglecting one peaceful annexion of Crimea, but so brutally, openly, to enter the area of another state and break their system, in fact trying to break their system it was recently unimaginable even though we had the opportunity to see it in Iraq, in the Arab spring, in Afghanistan, but obviously it was far from us and we felt that there were some other reasons there than what we now have. It means to me Croatian sovereigns the context of sending Croatian soldiers to Hungary or to any other country of this eastern belt of Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, Poland, etc., we are definitely connecting to the simultaneous strengthening of our potentials because I will repeat it again. By freezing the military deadline, or by not inviting our soldiers to serve the mandatory military deadline two years ago, we actually made it impossible for Croatian youth to qualify for what is most necessary to defend both its homeland, its family, ourselves, and we need to seriously talk about it today because other countries in Europe are doing this, and we Croatians must turn to it. I will not pre-name the dangers that threaten us in our neighborhood at all, because while we are in the NATO Alliance as long as Article 5 exists, we have the opportunity to respond, but let us never forget that for the first 24 hours, even up to 48 hours until the system is established, until international aid connections are settled, until the logistics channels are resolved, political, military, diplomatic, all systems until the attacked must survive on their own. That's what happened in Ukraine. How much potential we have with our current army, the professional composition, that's a question and what strength it is, that's a question that deserves studio analysis and I'm running away from the flat-rates. However, it remains an open responsibility in some way for the NATO Pact forces, especially in Warsaw in the 2016 Warsaw NATO meeting. A review of that preparedness action plan was adopted in Wales in 2014 and where the NATO Pact Member States said it would go in two directions, to strengthen the presence of deterrence and defence against the potential enemy was then definitely Russia, but another direction is also in that document from 2016, which no one is referred to today, and this other direction is that all NATO Member States will project stability into their neighbouring countries and potential partners to strengthen their institutional and military security and stability. So let's read it, we'll help Ukraine read it just so it can be read amongst other things, we'll help Ukraine strengthen institutional, organisational, military security. Well, they didn't do everything they had to do, so today I'm looking at it in a way that was embarrassingly surprised. In fact, the reaction to military aggression, the terrible military aggression that started from Russia with both air and sea and land was not at the level of Ukraine as we expected in view of the aid, given the condition that they had continued to be at war since 2014, and we expected that NATO forces were just referencing themselves to their obligation in Warsaw in 2016, but obviously it did not take much more than that, and they had a basis for both diplomatic and political, any other way, but obviously it did not take place in this way. Thank God the Ukrainian defense force has gathered and we have a different situation today, but civilians are killed. We must conclude that this defense system, this shield that we have, as Mr. Bauk correctly observed our borders are now far greater and far more protected, that it will give us strength and as President Buch said to the Croats do not fear you will never again be attacked by anyone when he came to Zagreb, but we must make sure never to say anything, anything is possible. If we are attacked by the Croats we must know and we must be able to respond and survive for at least 24 hours, and until 48 hours minimum our forces must endure. Now it's the responsibility of the Ministry of Defense, but also of all of us politicians and of this assembly to endure such a system. No one else has the right to say it will not happen, we are safe, protected by the UN Charters, protected by Council documents, EU etc., no, at some point fatefully we will remain Croats as the Ukrainians have faced themselves for a certain number of hours, and only then will the system of our friendly protection be launched. So let's get into it, protect ourselves, protect others, but protect ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96519	We are now going to the seventh debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, a respected colleague, Vidovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96520	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The other day we watched and followed President Zelinski addressed the British Parliament, the one who listened carefully could see and hear, he used a good part of the word of a great statesman, who was practically at the head of the anti-fascist coalition in II. The World War Winston Churchill. He used words, we'll fight on the beaches, on the sea, in the air, in the woods, and in the end we'll never surrender. It's a situation where Ukraine is now, but it's a situation unfortunately as much as we convince each other that can spread beyond Ukraine, that's the point right now. On the other hand, you have a country where we hear the greatest thing we need a world without Russia, which is very dangerous. So we don't need a world without Russia, but we need a world where Russia is involved in an international community, all in which Russia respects international law and the world in which Russia works and acts by international law and international standards. What's happening to Ukraine, I think anyone who has any morals should be condemned. And there's an answer to your question why are we engaged? We are engaged because we are there in the 1990s, the 1990s and the first to define that we will build a country that will be a member of Western European integration that will be a member of NATO, which will be a member of the EU. Then we wondered why no one was helping us. We've challenged both NATO and all sorts of things, and we're finally, and thank God that's how we solve the whole situation with our own strengths. We're in a different situation now. Croatia has voluntarily decided in democratic procedures that it will be a member of NATO and that it will be a member of the EU. Now it's up to us to respect that. How we will call for help for ourselves if we are not willing to give help to others. In doing so, I do not advocate the sending of our Armed Forces to be clear beyond the borders of NATO member states only under the condition of the UN Resolution, but then it is a different story. And what is this NATO? As one of my colleagues said, and here I think Mr. Stier mentioned it to NATO was primarily a defense alliance, so it was formed. NATO is a defence alliance in which all members decide what, when and how they will. And we're part of that alliance. What NATO is doing now, and what the EU is doing, which is doing practically the entire free world, is pushing for a diplomatic solution to the situation, i.e. war and aggression in Ukraine. If we're gonna make it all together, we're gonna see it, but we have to be ready for what if. And precisely because of what if, we need to engage in these missions. So, what's an alternative to our engagement is that civilians continue to die, it's that tomorrow any bully can hit the weak one on the head. It is to you that the countries that claim may be after someone else's territory to take that territory in a bloody clear march. So there's no alternative at all. And now we can discuss the reasons that were before 2015, which is after 2015, etc. But it's no longer relevant at this point, and it's not even current. Therefore, we at the Social Democrats Club will definitely support the engagement of our troops in both Hungary and the Cyber Security Team and in any other NATO member state. As far as the Republic of Croatia itself is concerned, Croatian citizens can be calm regardless of the situation to the east of us, I think Croatian citizens can be, what is the art of politics and what might be the art of politics is that our top officials take advantage of this situation to solve the problem of Bosnia, clearly not military, I am talking about diplomatic resolution, not anywhere near anything else. So now we have the opportunity to point out clearly the problem of Bosnia, to highlight the problem of the Croats in Bosnia and finally resolve the situation. And I think we have an international environment where we could get a favourable result for the Croats in Bosnia, not for us. So Croatia is a safe country and Croatia will continue to be. Thank our army for their service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96521	Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the esteemed counterpart Ante Deur will speak as the eighth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96522	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here is a thank you for this explanation of the proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of NATO's increased vigilance activities in Hungary, and a proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of cybernetic response teams and mutual assistance in cybersecurity. As far as these proposals are concerned, I would like to point out that the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support these proposals, and I believe that all other colleagues and colleagues will support them. The promoter explained in detail what it was about when it came to the proposals of these decisions. Don't let us draw any further attention today to all of us that what has happened in Ukraine and Europe in the last two weeks. On the 15th day of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the images that come from that country remind us of the images that came 30 years ago from the attacked surrounded and destroyed Vukovar. The war destruction now faced by the Ukrainian people deeply affects us because we, unfortunately, know very well what war is. Today we are marking the Day of the Croatian defenders of Vukovar, the day of my comrades whom he would greet on this occasion, but for all those who died and disappeared, may God give them dear eternal peace. Let us give them all due respect because they selflessly stepped on the Croatian defence defender when we needed it most. Tragic events from Eastern Europe are now the most brutal way to show us how good it is that the Republic of Croatia is a full member of the EU and NATO, and that together with its American and European allies and partners we have a common security and defence policy. The proposals for today's decisions are more than welcome, NATO is a defence alliance and a decision to strengthen the system and set up its territory exclusively on the territory of the alliance is a good decision. None of us want to lead to an escalation of the conflict with these activities or even worse to endanger the EU and NATO area, on the contrary, the decision contributes to the safety of Croatian citizens. It is therefore logical that the Republic of Croatia, as a responsible member of the NATO Alliance, participates actively in the planning of the military union with its NATO command officers, participates with the force on the ground in this case in Hungary. Now we see how important it is to have our own abilities, how good it is that, through the increased extraction of defenses, the funds for the purchase of new equipment such as the Rafale fighter planes, then helicopters, armored Bradleys and others. Of course, all this would not be possible without investment in people, and care for our members and members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about another proposal concerning the participation of Croatian members as part of cybernetic response teams and mutual assistance in cybersecurity, I would like to point out that I am extremely proud that the armed forces are involved in such a project. Today's defence capabilities are based not only on the traditional domains of land-sea-air warfare, but also on the domain of cybers, and on the domains, except under today's understanding, NATO's termology is a separate domain and its specificity affects defence capabilities and other traditional domains. The possibility of engagement of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia with regard to security is also a fruit of hard work in the armed forces of the Ministry of Defence, as well as of the good relations we develop in other allies and partners, which enables us to join NATO and the EU right now. You are aware that the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia have established a command in cyberspace, and I am sure that inclusion in the work of these teams contributes not only to European defence but also to the possibility of defending the Republic of Croatia from potential threats. This project, as said in a way, has been revived just by signing a memorandum of consent in March 2020. here in Zagreb during the Presidency of the EU Council. In addition to Croatia, Estonia, the Netherlands, Poland, Romania and Lithuania are participating as the leading state. It is about the EU's NATO member states, some of which and the Republic of Croatia have quite an intense bilateral defence co-operation. Activities under the project shall be carried out in the countries participating in the project to other EU Member States, institutions, bodies and EU agencies, missions, common security and defence policies of the EU, as well as other related activities and partners. I believe that in the work and in this country, we can achieve the project's stated goal, which is to strengthen our own abilities and respond to all threats. The defence and security of the Euro-Atlantic area rests on NATO, but also a strong European defence in which EU members must assume part of their responsibility. Members and members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the past activities and missions and operations have proved to be top professionals, and the skills they adopt in the work and other Allied partner nations contribute directly to Croatian security and the capabilities of the armed forces. It is necessary to continue and develop the defence capabilities of the Republic of Croatia, to take advantage of exactly the opportunities given to us by co-operation with other allies and partners, and also to be a responsible adviser involved in the joint defence activities of NATO and the EU. I believe this proposal will support a large number of MPs and MPs just as we did here in HS last week condemned Russian aggression and expressed full support for the Ukrainian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96523	And now as the last Club of Representatives will be a green-left block in whose name will speak respected colleague Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96524	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are discussing a proposal for a decision on the participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of NATO's increased vigilance in Hungary. At first sight, this is one in a series of decisions on the engagement of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of NATO's joint activities as we have already discussed in HS and related to the sending of our forces to Lithuania, Latvia, Poland. We are now sending our forces to Hungary, but of course in a completely different context, in the context of the armed aggression of Putin's administration in Ukraine. It is well known to all of us that Hungary is bordering with Ukraine, so we will have our forces deployed right next to the country where brutal armed aggression takes place, bearing in mind that so far sending our forces to other countries bordering Ukraine has unfortunately not deterred the violent Putin administration from causing aggression to Ukraine. In this context, the Green-Left bloc club will support this motion for a decision because we are aware that when an armed conflict arises, it is an approach to deterring and scaring other armed forces, unfortunately, an approach that has shown that it can lead to a calming of the conflict or to a halting of war and, unfortunately, again, to numerous human losses. Once there is a war, the main goal is to do everything possible to stop the violence it has for the consequences of unwarranted human loss as soon as possible. But here we want to emphasise once again what we talked about and in earlier discussions about sending our forces within NATO obligations, the appeal that we do not neglect the power of the civilian forces. Although war resistance is inevitable through weapons, let us not forget that there are a whole series of options that can contribute to the desecration of conflict or to ensuring that those responsible for aggression will sooner or later suffer the consequences of their decisions. In this regard, through the support of the Declaration of Ukraine, we welcomed the activities already carried out by our country in connection with sanctions that must be even more severe and even narrowly targeted by Putin's administration, along with the willingness of our country to accept all refugees from Ukraine. But we can see that there is still room for activities that we can contribute as soon as the war stops and ensure that those responsible are truly responsible for their crimes. In that sense, we have already appealed to the mobilized resources that we have within our society regarding timely and objective documentation of war crimes and human losses. These 14 days of war have made it clear once again that numerous war crimes happen in every war. The mantra of the only military targets being targeted has fallen apart on the first day of the war. Schools, maternity homes, hospitals, civilians and children are being re-destructed. Any crime if it is well documented in time has greater potential to be punished in the future. Let us only remember how many war crimes were not prosecuted in the war in Croatia because they were not documented enough. As far as we know on the ground already working teams of the International Criminal Court and individual NGOs, but we are sure that our experience of documenting, but also the processing of war crimes, will now be very welcome to Ukraine and we call on the government to bring together all those who have dedicatedly worked on it during the war in Croatia and find a way to mobilise and our forces. In addition, we already need to work on documenting every human loss. Every victim in this war must be documented with his name and last name and circumstances in which she was killed. The list of human losses is one of the preventive mechanisms that there is hope that wars will not be repeated, and also as much comfort to the families of the victims that their suffering will be recognized and the victim appropriately memorialized. We know from our own experience that 25 years after the end of the war we still do not have a list of all human losses in Croatia. In addition to working on documenting war crimes and human losses, let us not ignore the non-violent resistance of citizens and citizens of occupied Ukrainian cities. Every day we look at images from the streets of occupied cities where unarmed citizens stand in front of the Russian army and block their bodies' tanks and seek the end of the occupation. The willingness to resist non-violent resistance in occupied territories is a value that should be supported. And in the war in Croatia there were people who were tirelessly resisting the occupation. That method, however powerless it seems now, hides great power in itself. After all, we saw people who really stopped the bodies from further progressing the tanks. That's why we call on the government to find together ways to give support to both these citizens and citizens of Ukraine. Finally, let us not forget the numerous citizens and citizens of Russia and Belarus who protest daily against war and expose themselves to both the detention and repression of Putin and Lukashenko's regime. Let's remember here, for example. Only 77-year-old Yelene Josephova, who has been on the streets of St. Petersburg these days, protesting against military aggression in Ukraine, regardless of what police are bringing her in and out of jail. As a baby, the deer of Joseph survived and survived the Nazi siege of the then Lenjingrad, and now uncompromisingly stands beside all babies, with all the children, with all the people in occupied Ukrainian cities. Mrs. Josipova is a symbol of the non-violent resistance to Putin and Lukashank's regime to their inability to hide behind thousands of people who oppose this aggression. And as much as that resistance now seems symbolic to us, its potential power is great. And it's an opportunity to find a way to support all those who go out to the streets of Russia and Belarus these days and oppose war. Finally aware of the situation that at a time when people are killed every day by bullets, grenades, bombs need to strengthen the military response to these threats. The Green-Left bloc club will support this decision on the participation of our Armed Forces as part of NATO's enhanced vigilance activity in Hungary. But we also appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to strengthen and mobilise our civil capacities that can contribute as quickly as possible to the end of the war and to ensure that there is a fair recovery from war in time. As far as cybersecurity is concerned, I will only remind myself that we from the Green-Left bloc have also given the amendment to the Republic of Croatia's budget precisely to increase the funds for cybersecurity from 8 to 108 million, as Mr. Secretary of State has mentioned, with reasons for the threat of national security by cyber attacks today, are one of the biggest and most realistic threats to the entire national security system, these attacks are happening almost on a daily basis, and we suggest that the MORH strengthens itself precisely in that section of the defence of national security. The amendment was denied, that was only three months ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96525	We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96526	Honored Chairman, MPs and MPs. The world is in changing relationships, and the uncertainty from further escalation of war is growing from day to day. The consequences of Russia's aggression in Ukraine, and the consequences of the countermeasures that are currently humanely carried out by the unattained countries of the world are inconceivable. We can't predict what the world will look like in a month or two, let alone as far away from it as possible. It is more important to take care of how constitutional values, constitutional order and provisions prescribed by law are respected in every country and thus in the Republic of Croatia, because if there is a failure in steps, I fear that at some point we will reach the point after which there is no turning back. It is important to say that in a world of growing uncertainty, every country will have to take every effort to preserve its democratic values, not just to consider what will be done in the area of military security. For this reason, I will recall some of the constitutional powers of HS, including the HS decision on war and peace, HS adopts acts expressing HS policy, including the HS Strategy for National Security and the Strategy for Defence of the Republic of Croatia. How will HS be able to fulfil these tasks unless it has timely and complete information? I also want to say that when institutions weaken, and HS really needs to be respected as the most important institution of this country, so if it weakens and becomes irrelevant in its role, the world will be in increasing danger every day and so will we. There is no doubt that all the constituency clubs and so are the constituencies of the Centre and the GLAS party agree with this decision and with this proposal, but it should be pointed out that it is more because we are aware of the world circumstances and less for the reasons mentioned in the very explanation of this act, so I will try to explain what is not properly dealt with in it. So, first of all, when it comes to assessing the situation so far, it is said that new security threats have occurred. We all know what these security threats are, but this document stays in HS and after all of us and should have written in it exactly what these security threats refer to. It is further said that in response to changed security conditions and new NATO threats, it is still at its summit in Wales in 2014. expressed his action plan voiced his action plan and preparedness for its implementation through three key components of military, political and institutional. Well, it would be polite, without saying by the rules of procedure and by law, that at least two, three words were said about each of these three components. Unfortunately, there's not one. Third, NATO summit in Warsaw is said to be in July 2016. NATO has decided to act with the goal of collective deterrence and defence by strengthening the eastern presence of the NATO alliance, and in time new battle groups have been established in the Republic of Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, and NATO's command structure has been modernised, the size of NATO response forces has tripled, and NATO member states have begun to allocate more funding for defence. There is once again a lack of concrete data as well as experience of how this was done in practice, the lack of data on the timing of these previous events. And why does it matter? Well, it is important, among other things, that we can understand the causal link between certain events that have certainly affected what we are facing today, the understanding and the causal relationship and that it is very important to achieve some outcomes and the process of diplomatic negotiations, if they really want to do with an honest intention to end the war. In the final speech, I will also say what the problems stemming from the fact that all these activities are being carried out on behalf of the Croatian Defence Minister who is in very bad relations with the President of the Republic of the State and for all of us is one of the major security problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96527	We have one replica of the respected representative of Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96528	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Oreshković, you said super well that we simply live in such a fast time that we do not know what will happen in 10 years or five years without speaking for 2.30 years, so perhaps the proverbs must change, the Croatian rifle on the Croatian shoulder perhaps, the Croatian drone in the Croatian sky or some similar technological innovation. But often we speak above the Parliament itself is only a god. I think we need to change that, too. And that is why it is great that you have scored on all our obligations, tasks but unfortunately insufficient instructions for the Croatian Parliament to fulfill its role, in this case national security. We also heard a colleague of Raukar who had an amendment to cybersecurity, which is the key to everything, so they ruled it out. So, the return of dignity, integrity to the Croatian Assembly is something that is very important, so I would just like to support that idea of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96529	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96530	My entire political and public work is actually focused on building institutions to change the structure of the state because I think that the last 30 years are the most scheduled ones, and now that we see what it looks like when a man gets sick, when he becomes a dictator that absolutely no one can think of as an additional motive for us to realize that democracy actually doesn't work in Croatia. And we have one man whose will is unquestioned and we have one man who does whatever he wants, that no one can do anything to him, and we have a dysfunctional system of brakes and balances where neither the parliamentary majority is what it should be because there is absolutely no power of change to say it to the insufferable and corrupt ministers. And that is Croatia's biggest threat.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96531	The following will be spoken by the esteemed representative Marijan Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96532	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State. We support the sending of the Croatian Armed Forces to Hungary as part of the activities of the enhanced vigilance of NATO alliances. We have received information from the secretary of state that right now 181 Croatian soldiers are outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia on various international missions both the UN and NATO alliances. But what is important is the prominent Croatian soldier is primarily in peacekeeping missions, the Croatian soldier is in certain areas to protect peace and the Croatian soldier is with these NATO missions primarily to preserve the security of NATO members. The Croatian soldier does not go to the conquering wars and it is very important here to point out. And the fact is that NATO is highly endangered from the east, but we must also not forget other borders of NATO alliances, which are exactly the borders of Croatia. In the near future, and most likely within the far border of NATO, the alliance will also be bordered by Croatia. I mean it primarily towards the Republic of Serbia, but it is very likely for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we need to be aware of that. We also need to be aware that this Ukrainian crisis can easily be spilled on us by neighbouring countries for one reason because very important political actors in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, in the Republic of Serbia are very much of the interest of the Russian Federation. And not that they're really ready for something military or military action, but how much they'll be under the pressure of the Russian Federation itself. And we therefore believe that we should primarily think about the safety of our own citizens through the activation of existing Laws on Armed Forces, the Law on Defence where Croatia can raise in a very easy and short time the unclassified reserve of up to 30,000 soldiers as much as we currently have capacity, and we should also think about today and the mandatory military deadline but not the classic military deadline that will last 6 or more months, but about a military training period of four weeks for younger generations just so that they can handle weapons in situations that can obviously happen on the European continent, because few of us thought that this could happen. I am also sorry that today was not the loud ones who had been against the purchase of military aircraft, against the purchase of Bradley because they thought it was money, that Croatia should not be a militarized state, which was against having a military school, etc. They're more than quiet today. Today they are simply gone and do not want to admit their mistake, that investment in the military has not been thrown away, that investment in security has not been thrown away. Unfortunately for us today, there is more to come than we thought. It's not a war situation and there's no threat directly. The Croatian army has always been with the Croatian people at the most difficult times, during the time of the flood. Let's remember Gunja. At the time of the earthquake. Let's remember Banovina, let's remember Zagreb. The first ones who were ready to assist are the Croatian soldiers, the Croatian Armed Forces, and besides all the polls, Croatian citizens of all these state institutions have the highest confidence in the Croatian military. Thank God they have because the army showed up when it was most needed in the Homeland War, and I believe it would prove to be in all those future troubles that could come to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96533	We have two replicas. The first is the respected representative of Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96534	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd just like to think that since you're talking about a situation in our environment and environment, which, of course, is possible to change, to send a message to our citizens that the situation is stable, that it doesn't turn out to be a new alertness, a new vigilance, etc. Turned out a little bit about your third minute's vague attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96535	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96536	I thank my colleague, here I am, and this way I want to send a message to our fellow citizens that I can sleep peacefully, that we have a well-trained army that can ensure the safety of our fellow citizens, that of course we are members of the NATO alliance, but that, given the environment, I do not think of our fellow citizens this military aspect must still be on hand for God's sake.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96537	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96538	Here's a dear colleague, I'm glad you looked back on the state of military training of our youth because in the last 13 years. So we have lost the possibility that, since there is no mandatory military deadline in Croatia, even 325,000 Croatian young people will not be trained for elementary military knowledge. Now, we have the possibility of raising at least six months or a year's reserve power, but it's not working, but it's not, it's not being done, so what's your opinion, what's your position on it, we have a legal option, and we're not using it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96539	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96540	I believe that whatever this current situation means about Ukraine and security aspects, I believe that occasionally this article of the law needs to be activated so that we can still provide one additional security to our fellow citizens and that it is a kind of message, if it already exists in the law, if we have the right to activate non-classified reserves, why we don't do it from time to time regardless of this peace-time period, be the safety 100%, and unfortunately it can never be 100% again, we are all aware that yet this article of the Law of Defence is being activated from time to time, especially in today's times.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96541	Thank you. The following will be spoken by honourable representative Rajko Ostojic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96542	Thank you very much, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, there will be a consensus on these two points, which is very, very good and will obviously be a consensus on that investment in health and safety is the fundamental investment of every country, and of course the Croatian state of which my predecessor was just talking about, so investment in health means the Ministry of Health, investment in human health, that's what I thought, investment in the health of the economy, that's the Ministry of Economy and Investment in Security, that's exactly what it says on, on police cars in peace or in the war in HV. So these are four basic institutions that should simply enable them to be safe, and then we're safe. There is no General Prkačin who takes us to 1097, so in the 7th century, I believe that like all of us, we know that "Historia is the sixth master's of Vitae" and that "Repetio mother studiorum". If we're going to talk about history and Croatia and a whole series of countries in the history of the last 100 years, 200. developing and putting into different associations any social association or economic association, economic integration, so we don't have too many praises about the EU or NATO, they need to be appreciated, and on yesterday's topic of monetary union, because these associations are also very fragile, sometimes they shoot these ties very hard and fresh. The EU, Brexit, came guys and went if they have their commies, if they have their own EU, have a larger association called the 52-nation communique, out of 52-nations of a few-billion people, only India has a billion-and-a-half people. NATO, huh, she spoke nicely and I'm gonna get a great buy from Raukar, Putin's administration, Putin's regime, but 3rd. Before Trump's regime, Trump's administration, what she was doing to NATO, you know what she was doing to NATO, almost destroyed NATO. I want to tell you, you know this administration, including the Croatian administration, but we're only talking about two recent examples of Putin's administration and aggression and NATO's Trumpa for a second, Google it, each NATO summit paid whether Trump will come, even organised the NATO summits towards the Trump skeleton if he went to another GS7 or some similar association and monetary union. Unfortunately, Croatia has had major disasters as well as the whole world, covid disaster, a whole series of global value chains, for example because of our chips, we are running out of self-industry, but there is the possibility that we can be in trouble due to grain. But we've had two disasters that we haven't learned much about. No Pracina again "The History Is a Teacher of Life". We had Gunya, a terrible flood, if she had been just before, the ship would have been hurt, if she had been a little later, Osijek would have been hurt, a terrible thing, a little tsunami. We had an earthquake in the capital, a city of a million people, not an earthquake in the periphery of any state where there are 100 people, so we had another earthquake, so we learned anything about that self-sufficiency, little or nothing. We need to be self-sufficient at least in four things, energy, great that this government made LNG terminal, maybe not in a way that it did, but that we have back up. In food, we're self-sufficient in cereals, so maybe we should think about what Hungary did, health care isn't part of EKI, AKI-I apologize, historical gains, so maybe we can leave the grain for us... in the stock reserves, why not, so let's show ourselves. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay, Hungarian's got elections, so Orban's raising his own rating. Third, the drugs, we have a great pharmaceutical industry and the fourth no less important is just this, the military and the police. We need to be self-sufficient, so I've started to wonder whether both the EU and NATO and monetary unions have occasionally had bad connections and freshness, and there may be some administration that all this is going to go where it's going. It's great that in the last few days we've been in a whole series of HS topics in consensus and of course I'm aware of the great problems and potential dangers of our soldiers who will go to war, I support this decision and, of course, point 2 about cybersecurity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96543	We have several replicas, it is right for the respected representative Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96544	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Ostojić, you have noticed perfectly and everything you have said I sign in your presentation and especially that fact that we have a consensus here because this is not just a conflict of Russia and Ukraine, this is a conflict of two different ways of looking at the world. One totalitarian where one concentration of power is contained in one man and one democratic one that apparently Ukraine wants to go to, but someone doesn't like it. What you've pointed out, which is to learn from every conflict something good, so from this, we can see a lot about this concentration. Power is an aphrodisiac that seems to have a very bad effect on some people, and if we already have it in our neighborhood, let's not spill it on us. And we in our society have some that might become little Putinis or little dictators tomorrow, that can't possibly happen to us. And absolutely what you're talking about is that these decisions, not that we support them, but that we have to impose them as topics because NATO is the alliance we have chosen that we have entered voluntarily and that we must respect. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96545	Dear Representative Ostojić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96546	Is, exactly, NATO we chose, NATO is terribly important it's a defence alliance. Someone just quoted me as saying Sacic's preamble to NATO, but we still have to rely on ourselves. That's why I paraphrased that Croatian rifle on the Croatian shoulder, but it's good to have a Croatian drone in the Croatian sky. The guns were... that I wasn't a soldier because I was of course at war, yes, but I'm not a soldier, but it's good to have a rifle, a boot, but it's even better to have a drone. Because times have passed, times of war, today wars are in a different way with Tomahawks as they are said by these rockets in a few hundred thousand miles and things like that. And as far as the situation is concerned that unfortunately anyone can happen, Prickin mentioned Dodik, I think that Dodik is a pest and that the policy he's doing there is a pest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96547	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96548	Dear colleague. For centuries Croatia has been at the border of the two worlds of the East and the West, and it will obviously be so in the future. Since we are where we are, do you think that Croatia allocates enough funds from its military budget, for military equipment, for military technology, do you think that these funds should be increased in the future or reduced?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96549	Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96550	Thank you very much, dear colleague Pavlichek. Well, that's why I said four safety people's health, the Ministry of Health's biggest investment, the economy's health, the economy's biggest investment, and the third is the MUP and the MORH, so it's absolutely an investment, it's not a cost, it's an investment in people, it's an investment in security. The most important word for all of us is safety. So every man around the world has his own gold wire, everyone's for something talented Marianne, everyone, no man who's born today that's not for something talented. It is our obligation to recognize this talent, to use it as a parent of society, professors, etc., but society to allow it to live in a safe environment, and that's why security is a big deal, that it doesn't turn out to be a government, a government that isn't the government of my political party, and that's the side, but the government has done a big thing with these decisions to get Rafael and Bradley. Of course it was before, now we can say that it was the SDP government or someone else's government, but it's irrelevant now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96551	Thank you. Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96552	Here's the esteemed professors and former ministers and vice-president of the government, I'm so glad you mentioned these elements of self-sufficiency, so you referred to these tragedies as both earthquakes and floods. Now, the common sense I think we've lost a generation of very much what 300,000 young men from any form of military training have put aside. What do you think of that? Is there any way we can, we can't go back, but what next? We used to have some pre-war stuff in elementary and high school. What do you do to make these young people know how to defend themselves? I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96553	Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96554	Civil protection, civil protection what we said yesterday civil protection is crucial, so one simple moment to create an adequate situation. You can get military education, not you, but all the people in Croatia and anywhere in the world. So we have in... the war of our Homeland War, right there were people who had been educated militaryly in the former state in the former special forces, the paratroopers' special forces, Titus's guards, but didn't participate in the Homeland War. They had knowledge and skills, but they didn't participate in the Homeland War because they didn't have hearts, so they didn't have the will, they didn't have the heat to understand. So education is that, briefly and clearly, but this is the 21st century high school we leave for some other things, for the first love, for the ECT, for Dinamo, Hajduk, Rijeka, Osijek and some other things, not for the military.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96555	Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96556	Dear fellow MP Ostojić. So here on many occasions you mentioned the importance of security for this entire nation, the whole state in this context here I would mention the possibility of cyber threats that actually happen most in peace. Someone said it was a war in peace, and we know that we are all as individuals and as a society involved in various networks and that this danger of information, disinformation lurks on every individual and country or community, so here are constant investments in sophisticated technologies, education of the IT sector is certainly what you said that the Croatian government is doing is commendable indeed it is one time we need to continue because 21st century changes are on a daily basis so here I am interested in your opinion whether this is one good basis for further investment, security and individuals and communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96557	Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96558	The first, the second industrial revolution for 150 years, meaning from money to Tesla to electricity, the second, third 80 years, the fourth, fifth, which we now live for 5-10 years, the third started with a computer. The computers used to be like this table, today the computers are in my pocket. And the computer and the tape recorder and the camera and everything alive, but unfortunately my data or fortunately. When Djakic and I were traveling, we never traveled together, but we had to have 50 of those papers today, you have nothing. You don't have any cards, you have some kind of confirmation, some kind of QR code. So, the safety of our data, the safety of our health data, now I'm going to tell you.../incomprehensible/... as a doctor, our health data is something that can be misused. So health records whether someone is sick or not, whether they're president or prime minister and they're taking some medications or not, that's something that's very, very serious.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96559	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96560	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague, I think you'll agree with me when I say that our national greatest threat is the irreplaceability of the minister whether it's their corrupt affairs or their purely incompetence for the resort he manages. And here we have a minister who is not only in conflict of interest but in some way misused his powers to assign himself an apartment that doesn't belong to him, we have a minister who is in constant squabble with the president of the state, so he allows himself not to pay off his daily duties because he was not satisfied with the motive that the president of the state hired them, and we have all these affairs with names and shifts of individual generals and advisers, and even now we have the appearance of drugs in the Croatian army. Do you feel that the relevant Board of the Croatian Defence should ask our minister for more and at least commit him to what such a decision should to contain, which is worth it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96561	Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96562	Thank you, dear colleague Oreshkovic, it seems that my cell phone is not well enough for this one. As if you've read my messages, so last week, since I became a member of the Defence Committee, let's ask our president to call a thematic session on drugs or some other stuff in the Croatian Army. That it happens on my rib, and there's my colleague and teacher Professor. Rainer, if we had 10 surgeons on Rebr who were tested for drugs, so you know what that would be, you know what that would be, it's similar in the Croatian Army, we have to face it, but the army is out of politics. I hope everyone learns from recent events and that I will no longer mention names now, but that our high official will not go to Slovenia or similar obscenities, they must be out of politics. They have to obey orders, they have to obey orders, but what's the order, not go to places where they don't belong.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96563	Thank you. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative, Josipi Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96564	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, so here is today's debate on the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of our Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of the activities of strengthening NATO's vigilance in Hungary in association with the Hungarian Armed Forces, the 70 soldiers we have sent and so far had in our missions and engagement of the Croatian Armed Forces in missions and deterrence activities and forward presence and strengthened our armed forces through training, through cooperation, through interoperability in NATO forces, our soldiers, officers and officers in all these operations have been praised. But today, when we are witnessing new security threats across NATO's borders, especially at the eastern borders of the NATO alliance, it is clear that our Armed Forces are necessary and obliged to participate in all operations and so on the wake of NATO's eastern wing. I don't think there's any doubt on the Defence Committee as well as in today's debates over those 70 soldiers we're going to send in the next period to Hungary. The threat that took place was a brutally zero-provoked aggressive war of the Russian Federation on the Republic of Ukraine which could actually have been envisaged and should have been envisaged by me because in 2014 when Crimea was being detected regardless of the nuclear neutralisation contracts of Ukraine, regardless of what happened and the surrender of the Crimean nuclear arsenal and the entire Ukraine had a guarantee of Russia's Federation on their freedom, sovereignty and independence. When this was violated in 2014 it was necessary to maximise the alertness and presence. It was supposed to work instantly and immediately. The same scenario took place in the Republic of Slovenia's military aggression, and later Serbia in association with the rebels on certain parts of the Republic of Croatia. A scenario similar to this took place in Kosovo by acting Serbia's army on the Republic of Kosovo. When human lives are threatened, when brutal aggression occurs, when all human potentials that suffer in such brutal aggression are disrupted when a weapon that is forbidden is necessary to act quickly and efficiently. NATO's alliance is therefore a military and political component that should respond to such threats, threats that threaten even nuclear war. The increased level of nuclear power in Russia is in fact clearly threatening the whole world. The focus of their rockets on western cities makes it clear that it is no longer a joke, but that brutal aggression is turning into a madness that needs to be put to an end as soon as possible. We believe that regardless of the security, the security and intelligence data we have and we know that even in our neighborhood for which protest or support gatherings are scheduled for our brother Russia, we cannot look blindly and deafly. On 12.3. in Banja Luka is held a support meeting for brother Russia. What does that mean? When the whole world talks about this nothing-provoked aggression having to stop, when convicted by the Russian president, all his servants and his subjects, all those who inflict evil on the Ukrainian people, they give support. and serve him [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] We support the sending of our forces [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] And we ask the Ministry of Defense to put our country's security first. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you, dear colleague Djakic.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96565	Dear Djakic, thank you very much. Please, come back, you've exceeded your time, but you've got a series of replicas. I'd also like to ask the future speakers not to exceed the time. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96566	Thank you, Vice President. You mentioned your colleague Djakić in the final part of your address exactly the activities that take place in the environment of the Republic of Croatia and I personally think that now is a great opportunity to put ourselves in this environment. Croatia cannot allow any form of aggression, it cannot allow any incident of such a type that can happen near our borders. We should not even mention how this would affect both our economy and our tourism. But we must also be aware of our roles, aware that we are the only EU member and that we are among the only NATO members in our closer environment and why we are running away from the role of leader in Southeast Europe. This is now being shown not only to suit us economically, but to be of interest to the security of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96567	Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96568	Yes, you've made a good point. It is clear and visible through everything we can read and what we can get as representatives in the Croatian Parliament as well as as members of the Defence Committee that is happening in the environment. I think the rulings about that nothing is going on that would endanger our chamomile tea borders, because even when there was a little economic subjugation on me in terms of the two Russian banks in the Republic of Croatia that then sold their capital to Serbia our security services were silent and I never heard of any clear comment on what was going on. So I also think of current services as not good judgments, because in our neighborhood... The secession is the same as that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Luhansky and Donetsk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96569	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96570	Thank you very much, Vice President, dear colleague Djakic. Two words dominate this topic. It's a wake-up call and... This is about the formation of a combat group that will be on the territory of the Republic of Hungary bordering Ukraine and that is fine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia is giving its pain and its membership in the NATO alliance. However, the same vigilance and deterrence is needed here in the borders of the Republic of Croatia and there is certain and the Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is precisely and by purchasing and these fighter groups of fighter planes and Bradleys and everything that seems to be doing in recent times is precisely working to ensure that all our neighbours know what our vigilance is and how important our intention to deter them is. When we look at and look at this geopolitical status that we've been in and the environment that we've found ourselves in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96571	Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96572	Thank you very much, dear colleague. So alertness and presence in order to deter is certainly good if it is effective and someone understands it. We can see for ourselves that in some of the neighbors, it acts as a chamomile and does not see it as a reality that should prevent conflicts in the future. I don't cause any conflict. I've had enough of war like any normal man. However, be careful in these situations first and foremost to be awake and prepared as if it would never happen, trained, and ready to defend yours should be constantly. So I think that our armed forces must increase the level of alertness and alertness, that reserve forces must experience certain exercises...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96573	Thank you. Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96574	That all those in need should be at their disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96575	Comrade Djakic, please don't make me interrupt you every time. I look rude in my eyes, and I have to interrupt you because you're out of time. Don't. Hey, buddy Brcic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96576	My colleague Djakic, in the time you just started answering the question I intend to ask, because after the Homeland War, we thought that some others were eventually impossible wars. However, the war in Ukraine has very quickly denied us. You mentioned hiring the reserve staff today. I think the idea deserves attention bearing in mind that yet a significant number of Croatian people have a war experience, has knowledge, and has power, certainly and will to give their contribution to the security of the Republic of Croatia in that segment, so here I am interested in your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96577	Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96578	Thank you very much. Of course, “the history is a teacher of life, ” and who in history does not learn it again suffers. Therefore, the warnings that are or the doubts we express are not inconceivable and should be taken seriously. All those who do not understand them have not understood them before. All those who do not respect them and who do not appreciate how they should be hurt or run away from the threat and are not threatened. Therefore, we as responsible men must be clear and unequivocal in that we must be prepared as if tomorrow at our borders they will call for weapons and that the first missiles will fall into our space, but also our reserves and soldiers with active forces must be ready.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96579	Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96580	Thank you very much. It's great to hear from Josip Djakic to call on the NNI, nothing to surprise us, I'm joking, but I like yours, your remark that is essential. This was all predictable, 8 years old. It was predictable. I've seen it as a criticism and as a self-critic. The critic of Ukraine that still in some segments could be better prepared regardless of the heroic resistance they are now providing is probably you know more about it or else you wouldn't say it, and the other might be just criticism and Croatia, perhaps to you, perhaps yourself, why we didn't send jokes, gloves, boots and all that we could send, if we sent, I apologize. I've been appealing to that for the past few months, at least reported at least 10 times. So this was really predictable, and this was clear and truly both sides had to be better prepared.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96581	Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96582	Well, thank you very much for all of this, for all of us to question today what we were supposed to do, to question ourselves, and after our Homeland War, whether we should have been more prepared, if we shouldn't have allowed the weapons of territorial defense to be delivered to the Southern Army, if we were to defend and make decisions together, in most cases we are not in some. All of this was predictable, especially for those with the best information. Our friendly NATO allies certainly had good information about what would happen in the future, prevention, forward alertness or front security, so we were in Poland, at the border of what was happening with Ukraine now under attack, we were closer than we are now putting soldiers. I don't know what the problem is, so this isn't the last mission. I believe this isn't the end of the story. A week, maybe even at night, we'll meet and make decisions that will be made for further purposes unless this worstial war is stopped.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96583	Thank you. Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96584	Thank you, Vice President. counterpart Djakic, certain services, but not those from the EU, had data that could happen in Ukraine, but no one assumed that Russian President Putin could go this far to even rocket hospitals, pregnant women, children, not to provide humanitarian corridors when agreed. NATO is obviously organising this decision that we are discussing today, and we will also make it on that trail. According to reports that we could see these days, SOA has been keeping an eye on the situation in our environment, and according to the information provided by the SOA director on my question today, the secretary of state has been told that the security situation is stable and there is no reason to worry, but from your statement my impression is somehow that you are still calling for greater vigilance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96585	Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96586	Well, thank you, too, for commenting on my presentation. I'm a realist about the reality that's happening. A bit of a list of the Internet I see a call for 12.3 to support brother Russia. That's enough signal that a vampire ball will happen in Banja Luka. Everything else is clear, I don't want to explain the details after that, it happened in the '90s.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96587	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96588	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Djakić, I think it is very good that you have made it very clear that you have criticised what is Banja Luka's policy and willfully say Banja Luka is that it is not only one man's business but the entire one structure in both power and opposition, but I think there are two more things to be added, none of what is happening there can happen and is not happening without the blessing of Belgrade, I think it is the first. Another is the invitation and leaders of Bosniaks as the most numerous people, so they also have a special responsibility to accept Croats as equal partners, not to force Croats to go into some tactical cooperation with Banja Luka because they then put the whole of BiH in the context of a Serbian world. I think those two messages should also be added to what you specifically said about Banja Luka politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96589	Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96590	Thank you, fellow Stier, so it is clear and unequivocal a few days ago that Dodik called for an agreement with Putin on the secession of Republika Srpska. It's clearly written, I don't know who hasn't read it and seen it, don't our services see it, don't they know what their deal is? Realization, yes, the right moment is now, whether it will happen or not the question is now. Whether or not we will leave the Croatian people hanging in Bosnia or not, that's the question now. I wonder what we're going to do to prevent it is the vigilance of our armed forces, all our security services and us as agents.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96591	Thank you. The next one will be spoken by a respected representative, Stipan Sashlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96592	The Honorable Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we really are at one point when it's hard to say something new, something that might somehow help at this point... This aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine has surprised virtually the entire Western world, the whole of Europe, and also us in the context of it, regardless of what has been followed together, which was predicted, however, we can in some way conclude that Europe, the EU has been slightly swept in thanks to God for that long period of peace, and that they simply did not expect such a rave and development of the event eaten. We basically came up with a situation where these huge changes happened and I believe, unfortunately, that for a long time, nothing will be the way it was, as it was before. In all this evil that has practically affected all of Europe if we can call anything good, if anything can be good at all, it is the fact that there has been unification, that there has been an increase in the awareness of Europe of all EU members that only a common defence policy, that only the entire Western world can be defended with the help of I say to all the members, primarily led by NATO forces. Of course, it also requires certain separations, certain efforts and financial and each other, and that it will have to be submitted practically to all the members, or all of us in that circle. Until now, the Republic of Croatia has withdrawn or made several strategic decisions that have proved more than justifiable, correct and necessary today. Construction of LNG terminals on the island of Krk, stabilised or secured the energy security of the Republic of Croatia, the acquisition of multi-purpose warplanes Rafal also think that there is really no need to talk about it now, the purchase of combat vehicles, armored war vehicles Bradley significantly strengthened our defensive capabilities. All of this sort of costs and costs and is paid and will be paid in euro, dollars or other currencies. But we also know that freedom costs, and unfortunately, freedom is often paid, too. Mr. Lenart, freedom is unfortunately often paid [[Intruder Reiner: Comrade Lenart please let's not leave the scene.]] and in some other ways, and indeed the Republic of Croatia knows best all its citizens, and we hope that we will never again have to pay for freedom either ourselves or the entire EU. [[It's my fault.]] And that is why the Republic of Croatia, or its government, will still have to withdraw some kind of strategic decision, make strategic decisions to protect itself from all the threats that are unfortunately present these days and these weeks. All of these needs for a greater contribution, or the need for a common defence policy of the Republic of Croatia within the EU and NATO, I say, will require this strategic thinking and decisions which, I will only list some of which, at this point in time, might be worth the attention or need to consider, if, above all, the restructuring of the Croatian economy, the provision of sufficient and necessary amounts of reserves, in particular food, but also other supplies, or the possibility of adapting the Croatian industry to the needs and war industry. First of all, I mean the ability to produce my own pedestrian ammunition, artillery ammunition and other needs for the Croatian army. Further or considering whether the moment is now, I think it is, about the operational or strategic long-term peacetime schedule of our armed forces in the area of the Republic of Croatia. I think there's also room here, too, and there's a possibility that there's some things that we can agree on right now. Then training, or strengthening the Croatian Army's reserves, is primarily through an increase in the number of handbooks, which unfortunately are in relatively small numbers, but in a way that stimulates these people or young people to go, to serve in the manual. through an increase in their salary because it is unfortunately less than minimum wage today. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96593	Thank you very much. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96594	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor. At the beginning of your presentation, you talked about the need for both the community and the alliance on today's occasions, and we need to know that what we're sending our soldiers now is that it's actually a continuation of NATO's presence at its borders because the normal security situation requires us to do so, but normally it's an obligation for us as states to our allies. But we must all agree that only now is the clear trend since the 1990s and the first Croatian president to enter both the EU and NATO because when we see a situation today that we may not have imagined 10 or 20 years ago I think it would be in a completely different situation and that it would be much, much harder for us to approach such threats and not be members of the EU and NATO.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96595	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96596	Here you go, buddy. I really agree absolutely with you, joining NATO and joining the EU have always been the strategic goals of the Republic of Croatia and have been realised as such. And of course, as members of NATO and the EU, we must be responsible and behave in accordance with our status today. I was unfortunately unable to respond to the discussions of some of today's parliamentary representatives who remind me of the president of the neighbouring Republic of Vukic who in some ways would like to sit in two chairs. I don't think we can have to, we know we've clearly settled down where we belong, and that's how we have to behave. There's no room for us to do something with a fig in our pocket right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96597	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96598	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative, here are the witnesses of the aggression against Ukraine, but unfortunately we have such leaders in the world today who are not considering this with their own head so that certain misunderstandings can be resolved by conversation. Unfortunately, as long as we have such people, such dictators will always be wars and unfortunately we are witnessing despite the civilizational achievements that in fact most of these dictators reach for armed conflict. Here and unfortunately, 30 years ago, we had an armed conflict here, a country that had a claim against the Croatian state. I mean the Serbs and the brushes. And we've come, we've come to a situation where we've defended ourselves. However, now 100km from Zagreb, they call on their Friends of the Russians to be [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Support. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96599	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96600	My dear colleague, I appreciate your opinion, but I really don't think there's any reason to panic right now. We must trust our services, which work, which follow the situation in a closer environment. I used to work in those services myself, so I really know the situation pretty well, and if I could express myself in some kind of meteorological dictionary, I'd say it in a short way. I don't think there's a problem or there's no danger of some major cyclonal, cyclonal disorder, local showers and thunderstorms may unfortunately endanger the tourist season and therefore we need to be careful, but believe that this is being followed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96601	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96602	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Shaslin, according to my global food prices, grew by more than 20% to the UN in February, they will continue to grow because of these developments in Ukraine because we know that Ukraine and Russia together actually supplied 1/4 of the world's population with wheat and cereals. As much information as I have on wheat in China will fail, so the problem is general food supply. And you are with me in the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament, we warned last year when energy prices began to grow that it was important to prepare and come up with a strategy on how to fill the stock reserves. At the time, we were told that market disturbances could not be reacted through stock reserves, but now we have an extraordinary situation. I see the government has made a decision in that sense. Do you think those decisions are on time or would it be modeled late Marko to Kosovo coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96603	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96604	This fellow we see, indeed, that prices and prices of energy and food and all of some of the strategic products are wild, have started to really rage and go to heaven, but we cannot, unfortunately, have a significant impact on that, but we can influence the fact that we can still ensure that there are sufficient quantities of these strategic products. First of all, energy and food. According to the presentation and the minister and these days we follow it, we think that or we know that the stock reserves are sufficient and that Croatia should not have problems with these strategic products in the next period. In time, some measures were taken. As I was saying in my presentation in time, we made an LNG terminal, and in time we made some strategic decisions that we now have a bit of a relief and relief from this, this really difficult situation. A world that can't be affected. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96605	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96606	In the meantime, I just have to say that it's hard to believe that we're really ready, given the fact that we've been getting food for supplies before this whole crisis, and let's say some countries that are much more self-sufficient than us like Hungary are already prohibiting the export of some of their products, and we haven't changed anything in our policies until now when the prices are growing, so here's what I'm going to take with the skeptic. But I'd like to ask you something else. You were talking about getting military equipment. How do you interpret compliance when we talk about the purchase of military equipment, our military policies and decisions with those commitments we made as a NATO member state in terms of, for example, getting planes first, and then getting Bradleys, and we were supposed to get Bradleys as a NATO member and much earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96607	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96608	Thank you for your colleagues. So I really think that these precisely are the government's moves, or decisions that have been made exactly in line with those commitments that we have made as a member of NATO. This when you talk about Bradleys, Bradleys meet our obligations, our needs, creating one front battle to say armored mechanized battlefields, and that's enough now. Do we, God forbid if in 5-6 years we have the means and opportunities to buy even more modern means to happiness, but today those needs and those obligations that we have undertaken as part of NATO are absolutely satisfied with this technique that has been obtained, or which is in the process of procurement and which, soon, will arrive in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96609	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96610	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A question for you, therefore, when discussing the last budget, in fact in the last few times several clubs and individual representatives have proposed to increase certain items in the defence ministry's budget, for example. The Green-Left bloc club has proposed to significantly increase funds for cybersecurity, however, such amendments have been rejected. You talk about strengthening the production of ammunition in Croatia, therefore your own capacities were such proposals in the assembly, but such proposals were rejected. Do you think it would make sense to visit again and, therefore, return to those amendments and see if it makes sense to follow the suggestions, some of the suggestions that we made here in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96611	Dear Representative Shashin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96612	Yes, I would very much like to remind you of some other amendments, i.e. proposals that also came from this left side of the assembly where they proposed that the budget for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia should be reduced over four billion were proposed. Now, that's where the responsibility and maturity of a government is being expressed, which is able to assess real opportunities with real needs at a given time. This is what the Government has done, and I think it has indeed proved that all these decisions by the Government have so far been justified and more than justified and there is no reason for us to continue to doubt those decisions that await us, and let us unfortunately be aware that there will be a difficult decision and that unfortunately all of this together we will have to feel for ourselves in some way on our own skin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96613	The following will be spoken by Honorable Representative Zeljko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96614	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I would first look back even though it wasn't my plan to make fun of the smiles that came from the right side when our parliamentary representative, Mr Ostojic, said that the current situation is the merit of all governments. I'll look back on that from a cybersecurity aspect. Please tell me that not all governments have so far insisted on training our handbooks, that they did not insist on training our students and students in part of cybersecurity that they would send to Europe today? Who would participate in these actions today? Secondly, we might overestimate here a little too easily that we have enough food supplies. I will refer to the statement by Minister Vukkovic, who said this morning or yesterday afternoon that we are short 150 000 tonnes of grain until harvest. So we don't have enough food. We've got enough food in our stock reserves for as long as was predicted with our stock reserves. Therefore, food is insufficient and needs to be taken care of. What we're going to do, how we're going to take it is government and executive. Furthermore, I would like to remind some parliamentary MPs who have already had the presentations and who will have the presentations actually talk about two topics. One is the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of NATO's increased vigilance activities in Hungary, and the second is a proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in activities within the EU's permanent security cooperation project. It means EU. That's two levels. The debate is united, but we're not talking about the same thing. Please, in our presentations later and in replicas, we take care of it. I would actually like to look most at these cybernetic response teams and for mutual assistance in cyber security, because I said already in my replica we have a really impressive number of ITs in the Republic of Croatia. We have about 60,000 of them, and as I've already said, a part of those experts came out of military schools and military academys, and a number of them also had their own private companies that have achieved enviable successes on our market, especially people experts who have left military academys. You probably know who I'm talking about. Not to name it now and not to make a commercial for certain companies. I think there's some things you need to regain consciousness. Mr. Djakic, please let go. They're having a party. You want tickets? As for cybernetic response teams and mutual assistance, we need some things to clarify. [[Please let's let our colleagues have some courtesy. Let's let the speaker talk.]] This is not just about protecting military IT infrastructure, it's not just about the IT infrastructure of police or IT infrastructure of public administration. We need to be aware of what we're benefiting from this information infrastructure. We need to be aware that we live with it every day. We need to be aware that one of our average citizens spends every day on that infrastructure for a few hours and that each of us when he comes to the store and when he pulls a card he's actually dependent on that infrastructure. Therefore, these few soldiers who will go, or members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia who will go to these cybernetic teams, will not only protect the military, the police, but will protect all of us. And that's what we need to take care of. These are people who have special knowledge, who have special knowledge and if I were asked myself, I would be in these teams if it was possible either to join or include a number of civilian experts working in our large companies and dealing with security because it's good for Croatia and it's good for these companies. And if that's in any way possible, if it's not different to think about it and try to maybe make some kind of amendment or change of law that can be done, because that's what we're going to depend on. See what happened to Russia? What a propaganda, what a blockade it was. And now look at what war is going on right now in this information space? See what Zelenski's doing? See what Putin's doing? But don't forget that we're not just addicted to that information, but we're dependent on bank payments, we're addicted to sharing information with each other. So if it's all hacked together, if it's going to be insecure, we're not going to go well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96615	We now have the replicas of the respected representative Selak Rasdic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96616	There is no week that we discussed exactly the cybersecurity certificate here in the Croatian Parliament. In that sense, I wanted to ask you a question about the SCAU system that SOA is talking about, which should serve precisely to defend against these cyber security threats that come from other governments. But now you've opened up another question, an information war that is also related to cybersecurity, and I'm wondering how you're assessing the censorship that is present on both sides as a solution to the problem of the information war? On the one hand, we hear about restricting social networks in Russia, and on the other hand, in the west, some media, for example, Russia Today, have been abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96617	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96618	If you've been following up on some of our presentations and you're a college professor, you've probably listened to some of the roundtables, then you've actually heard that the data, or information today, is extremely important and is very valuable. Whoever has the information has the power, so that's what happens today in Russia, that's what happens in Ukraine today, that's what happens in Europe today. Unfortunately, some powerful men have given themselves the right to try some countries that are not involved in war conflicts directly, to try to misinformed them and thus actually do harm and all those involved in this war should later respond. It's not just, it's not just about human casualties, it's about other guy's victims. But we'll talk about it a little bit, I think I'll talk to you about it, maybe have a little coffee, now I don't want to hang around the pay phone if it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96619	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96620	Thank you very much. A respected colleague, when you look at the SOA's cybersecurity pages, then it clearly states that global cyber threats are on the rise and that the Republic of Croatia as a member of NATO and the EU is indeed more targeted at attacking different and even state-sponsored cyber attacks. You have brought us a little closer to information security issues in your presentation and given us some additional information that does not stand in this motion for a decision. I'd like to ask you a little more detail as to whether you're in favour of mobilizing information security experts or if you have a proposal for a different approach to involving civilian experts in cybersecurity, did you mention them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96621	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96622	Yes, I mentioned it, and I think that there should be a greater number of experts involved in such activities, given that these are people who have special knowledge, special knowledge, and I think that these skills should be passed on to others. Namely, when I asked the secretary before, would you work at the level of Europe to make this towards... will actually use a variety of equipment, it was said to be used, in fact, that the goal is to use one equipment to make it easier to keep it all together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, it is necessary for all these systems, and for the intrusion prevention systems and detection systems, for antiviral protection, for various firewalls, for detected data-relation threats, there should be special experts who know how to deal with it, and you can't get that knowledge within 5 days or 15 days, it's done for months, and you have to work on certain.../incomprehensible/... on certain machines, on certain software to master it completely, in order to really fully protect the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96623	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96624	Dear colleague. ... You mentioned food, our reserves, which we will eat in the future since our stock reserves have 15 kilograms of wheat per capita and 2.5 kg of meat and there is one big if, that they do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since Croatia's agricultural policy has been so bad for decades that it doesn't stimulate our agricultural producers that they don't have to sell the grain immediately after harvest, but that they can keep it, which means they're richer, we could keep it until some period of the year when we could sell it more expensive, and that would make our reserves bigger, but I've already, several times, here, warned here and I'm using one term that we're one step up to hunger, which was funny to many, but it's getting less funny in view of the global situations that are currently happening. Do you think we should have a rich peasant and that he must be the one who can? Save this grain, don't you think, country? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96625	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96626	Dear colleague. I'm glad you asked that question because it's actually a question and it gives one that, or we force one finding, which is that your words actually had a great deal of weight when you talked about it a few months ago and when you warned that we were one step away from the vote. Then no one believed it, there were some laughs, but today it turns out we're actually very close to it. I don't need to panic, but I think we need to talk to the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Economy, the Department of Stock Reserves, the Minister of Agriculture, and tell us what our plans are. If you remember, I had one replica here when I asked the Minister of Agriculture what and why, what does or why not activate a fully unprocessed agricultural land in Croatia. What answer did I get? I didn't get an answer at all, and now it's gonna prove to be very important. Because look, all the grains in Ukraine will simply not be sown and who will be left without food? That's a big question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96627	Thank you. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative Davor Ivo Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96628	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today we have a united debate because we have to make two decisions, one about sending our troops to Hungary under one of NATO's operations, the other is the deployment of a cyber team within the framework of PESCO, which is within the framework of strengthening European defence capacities. So, two decisions that already point to one first conclusion, which is that strengthening European defence capacities, achieving European strategic autonomy is not and cannot be and must not be directed against NATO or against America, but must actually be together, both are complementary and Croatia is looking at it in this way and I think it is the only right way. That's the first conclusion. Secondly, a lot of colleagues have said that to make these decisions, we need to look at a broader geostrategic context or give such a single framework, and I think that's okay. I will try only briefly in this time to say something, and it is primarily that clearly these decisions are made in, made in the context of aggression on Ukraine, a war in Ukraine that has not been caused and I will repeat it once again because of the expansion of NATO and I mention it because more than once in the public, not only in Croatia, but in Croatia it was also mentioned that in me entirely guilty thesis. The reason for the war is simply Russian aggression is the concept of one attempt to create a Russian world, one Russian sphere of influence, not the expansion of NATO. If it hadn't been for the expansion of NATO today, we might have seen such destruction in the countries of the former Warsaw Pact, so much closer to our borders because we have experience and what happened in Budapest in '56, including the Prague Spring of '68. So, if it was trying to create or recreational some Russian sphere of influence, and if it hadn't been for the expansion of NATO, then it would have gone towards those former members of the Warsaw Pact who wanted to join the EU once when they gained their freedom to sovereignly decide who they wanted to join and what alliance they wanted to join NATO and they wanted to join the EU and they did so. The way Russian politics wanted to prepare this and legitimize you will find it in a very interesting book by Shaun Walker, so the British Guardian journalist, let's say left orientation, translated into Croatian, you can find it here in the library in the assembly, he says about what Putin is trying to do with '45. In fact, forget '89, so he manipulated that victory over Nazism and fascism to make sure that, in order to forget the fall of the Berlin Wall, the fall of communist dictatorships and then '91. and the collapse of the Soviet Union which he had experienced and so said as the collapse of historical Russia. So, there is not so much perhaps and important ideology, but this idea of Russia as an empire, as an empire that must have its own sphere of influence and that every one of these ideology helps this geopolitical being Marxism or Leninism, was panslavism, any political Orthodoxy, in any case everything that strengthens it will use for such a geopolitical goal. And that's the context, that's this geostrategic framework in which today, unfortunately, a terrible war and aggression is happening in Ukraine. What we are deciding today is then one deterrent measure just to show as a defence alliance that this expansion of NATO was right, was an additional contribution to peace and stability in Europe, that these ambitions of creating some sphere of influence cannot now go to these former members of the Warsaw Pact or to new NATO members, because of course this would lead to a conflict of nuclear forces which is unimaginable and that we all expect and we know that this simply shouldn't do so, because of all possible consensus and of course that in Moscow they know and in this context this deterrent measure have very much their own justification, and therefore we must also support this one of the measures that we are discussing today and which we will vote on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96629	We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96630	When we talk about the defence of European space most recently, we are talking about it in the context of NATO. However, the debate on the European Army and on the so-called ‘European Army’ has been quite up-to-date. military Schengen, therefore, is the question of whether and how Europe can be jointly defended and self-defense against military threats. On that trail, I would like to know what your opinion of the European Army's capabilities and capabilities and so on. military Schengen and its functionality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96631	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96632	Yes, thank you for that question, so on the trail of what I said in the debate, so Europe must strengthen its defence capacities, it must simply develop, PESCO is a good mechanism to do so. However, again clearly I say, Europe, the EU has never been one, one non-classified entity, it has always been a part of the West. The EU has also emerged in context if you want terrible events since World War II, but also threats to then the Communist Russia or the Soviet Union. She was never unclassified, she was an ally of America, and today she is and so still by me must and be an integral part of the West and ally of the United States, but she must have her own, its own capacity that she can also act strategically.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96633	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96634	Thank you, Vice President HS. A respected colleague, the commander of NATO forces, the US general said Putin had succeeded in a week what he as commander failed at the 4th year. The behaviour of this function and I now hope that NATO's alliance will remain firm and stable together with the EU. However, we have had an aggression of JNA and Serbs to the Republic of Croatia and we have won, what do you think will be the course of further war in Ukraine and will this alliance really remain stable given that interests are diverse and the question is whether there will be any influence and that this alliance would not have a short, short age? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96635	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96636	Thank you. Yes, my colleague, I know Admiral Stavridis, so the former commander of the NATO forces who gave that statement that in some way Putin achieved what he did not while serving this NATO-led force. It was hard to convince, for example, at that time. Germany must increase investment in defence, it must reduce rather than increase dependence on Russian energy, it was one of Berlin's guilty policies at the time, and it is good that Berlin changes direction and changes policy in this context. Of course, the reason now is that it was not theoretical but we can see, unfortunately, that the preparedness of Russia's aggression is quite current. NATO will remain my key to stability and security in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96637	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96638	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Stier, you are a good acquaintance of geopolitical events in both Eastern and Western Europe. I would say that cybernetic protection and the protection of strategic resources that Croatia has will be two fronts of defence that we must well strengthen during which time is ahead because simply without it I think we are much weaker. It is also the sending of soldiers of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to dress, to be part of that world that is something good. Now, what is, and in your replica, you have pointed out to some other MPs is the environment in which we are, which is very complex, very flammable and every moment should be awake and cautious when it comes to these borders that Croatia has with these countries in our immediate environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96639	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96640	Thank you, colleague Ivanovic, for asking. I think we've mentioned here several times what we need to do specifically, and we've been doing this and for a long time now is this attempt to imitate this Russian world, and the Russian sphere of influence in the form of the Serbian world. That's what we talked about here more than once, and we even wrote not yesterday, not a few weeks ago, but a few years ago. And just now it has shown how important it is to monitor that this does not happen, but to do something else, which is to Europeanise the area of Southeast Europe. So it should be on what all the countries so-called. The Western Balkans are working to create some sphere of influence. As far as cybersecurity is concerned, I absolutely agree with you. I think that should further strengthen European capacities. In this regard, we should also support this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96641	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96642	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Stier, you've been in foreign policy for a long time and you have experience with similar situations in other parts of the world, so I'd like to hear your opinion. What do you think about Putin's plan to run over Ukraine within 2 days, to bring down the legally elected government, to place his puppet government there, given that this plan doesn't go anywhere near what he planned, do you see it as the beginning of the end of the Putin era, or how the world might look nice without Vladimir Putin?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96643	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96644	Thank you, colleague, for that question that I think has one, one, or needs one, a little deeper thought. About which it may be difficult to say in a few seconds. Of course, we all condemned Vladimir Putin's decision to start an aggression, but I think we'd be wrong if we thought everything could only come down to one person. So sometimes these are the structures that work and when you're setting or moving only one person you haven't actually addressed the real cause, the real problem. The real cause is this ambition to create actually one sphere of influence that in this way actually threatens the sovereignty of neighbouring countries. That's the real reason Putin is now implementing, but the real reason is that, and we need to focus on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96645	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96646	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Stier, yesterday on the Committee on European Affairs, we discussed the EU together so nicely, and you have now touched one part in your debate when you talked about how you see and how, so part of how you see PESCO and the role of PESCO. I'm interested in actually expanding that thesis a little if you can, or these ideas. The EU is looking for its own me, and yesterday we discussed that Sui Genis this constant process of searching for the future of the Union and what it should be. How deep integration should be, for example, in the area of defence, given that this is generally imagined in this context as something which is the competence of the Member States. So, how much ha I'm gonna like that under the supposed signs of federalization being here in this case is good, by you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96647	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96648	Yeah, well, you see, we have a colleague, Glavasevic, for example. NATO, which is an intergovernmental organisation, is therefore not a Federation, and yet it works and has kept peace from actually being founded and having won that cold war in some way without ever entering direct confrontation. I believe there will be no direct confrontation between NATO forces and Russian forces now. So, the issue of European defence policy and capacity building I think is necessary, but not in the sense that it is separate or even opposed to the position of America but that it is coordinated to be part of the West. Why does Europe have to strengthen? Well, because even today, the United States isn't like it was in '45. when representing, for example, 50% of the world's GDP. Today, America needs stronger Europe, but then Europe has the right, of course, to have its own. autonomy in decision-making. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96649	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96650	Your Honor, strengthening Europe is not an idea since yesterday. If we remember a speech in Zurich by statesman Winston Churchill, we know that he has already proposed that Europe unite and move forward. But it's not my question, I just want to support yours, this one, thesis, that it's extremely important and that we have to work in that direction. My question is about countries that have had a completely different policy so far. For Sweden which was practically neutral, Finland which was neutral, Switzerland which was neutral and Germany had not delivered arms so far. It is not at all disputed to build a new world order, however, what is now a problem, we have been taught so far that those countries within the EU have some status, have some way of acting, that this is clearly changing. What does this mean for the EU and what does it mean for other EU countries?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96651	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96652	Yes, a colleague certainly means that NATO is not cerebrally dead, as some said a few years ago, and who viewed the strengthening of these European defence capacities as a way to distance Europe from the United States, some in America have also asked America to move away from the EU. It was simply not a path that would strengthen the West as a geopolitical concept. What needs to be strengthened is European defence capacities, working with Americans as our allies, but that Europe has its own strategic autonomy and in this respect, you can see that precisely because of this aggression, this logic is once again becoming much more understandable and the countries that have been reserved according to this way of thinking, and that is why they are changing attitudes today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96653	Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96654	A fellow representative, here, has been mentioned repeatedly that the events of Russia's attack on Ukraine are one of those events that we, as a young Republic of Croatia, had in the early 1990s. I would mention, however, that we, in my own court, were even in a difficult situation because we were a young country, we had an embargo on arms imports. Today, there has been a lot of talk here about security, endangering security as one important basis for all the progress and survival of a society and a particular state. I'm curious, here's what you'd say, structures, not to mention Putin alone, in case the war plan isn't happening, and we see, it's not how they imagined it, is it possible for some irrational events, which in a large way threatens security, and also, if they came to the realization of their plans, it encourages them, and here today we mentioned to Banja Luka, means the same procedures. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96655	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96656	Yeah. Well, you see, on the one hand, a lot of things, of course it resembles Slobodan Milosevic and aggression in Croatia. There is a difference, however, Serbia is not a nuclear force and of course, even though Croatia was much more difficult, we should also have this dimension in mind. Today, Serbia is also not in the same geopolitical situation as Russia. Not only because it is not a nuclear force, but because it is surrounded by NATO members. So all the countries around are NATO members or in the case of Kosovo and BiH, NATO is present in those countries. And then it certainly puts Serbia in a second position, but it must decide which direction it wants to go. So it's now a decision that Belgrade definitely has to make.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96657	Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96658	Vice President, Your Honor. This is when we look at the time of the '90s, '91, President Tudjman and many decisions that the people had to make in those moments, we have seen many times that prominent politicians in the Croatian state were not at the moment of being able to make a quality decision and thinking about how many people were threatened and the moment of that decision fast and quality. Today, Europe and the environment are at risk, and this government has brought many quality... Decisions and notifications of the Croatian Armed Forces on security and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian leadership as a people and Croatian army. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96659	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96660	Thank you, colleague Deur. It seems to me that when we had a debate about the Declaration of Ukraine on behalf of our club, I mentioned two important decisions. One, you've alluded to it, and that's strengthening our defence capabilities, obtaining warplanes, but also, by strengthening and ground forces,... and announcing further modernisation of the Armed Forces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another strategic character was the construction of an LNG energy security terminal, which was not always visible to all. Many were against it, from different positions. However, it was the right decision by the government. I think that this situation even now further encourages us to increase and our production, our own gas production and the reduction in actually, imports because there are still a lot of imports of this, and we need to address that issue as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96661	Dear Representative Barbaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96662	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleague. Several speakers mentioned BiH and possibly endanger the Republic of Croatia, which is understandable given the length of the border of different security aspects. Let's also think of the migrant crisis years back from '15. here, you mentioned the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia, I would prefer to be mentioned in the context of the protection of the survival of Croats in BiH, but that is so. Don't you think that a form of war, a special war has been going on for 20 years in BiH through the imposition of illegal representatives, different forms of taxation and the desire for domination, the harmonisation of the right to.../incomprehensible/... the channel in Croatian language and different forms of discrimination deny freedom. In fact, who besides the Croats in BiH wants Euro-Atlantic integration in the first place?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96663	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96664	I believe that the future of BiH must be according to... And you are correct in alluding that the Croats are the ones who strongly support it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, we have debated here several times, and I will repeat, I believe that, especially in this situation, it is important that the leaders of Bosniaks as the most numerous people, and then have a special responsibility, accept Croats as equal partners. To accept an agreement that will allow for the change of the original law and then legitimate representation, not to force the Croats to go into some tactical agreements or co-operation with Banja Luka because I also believe that Banja Luka is the establishment of Belgrade and therefore, if we want BiH to be in the context of this sphere of influence rather than looking west towards Euro-Atlantic integration, it is important that this agreement is reached on the reform of the electoral law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96665	Thank you. Thank you very much. Now we're going to stop by to discuss this point because it's been, like, an hour, and here it is, and we're going to go to the point of view. We will now return to our point which we have briefly interrupted with individual debates, and will now speak the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96667	As a visiting lecturer at the Ban Josip Jelačić War School, who has educated our top officers for years, I have been systematically following military policies and all the shortcomings we have in improving military science that is the prerequisite for our strategic positioning in the future especially when we talk about such serious threats. Unfortunately, what we could see when we voted on the university law on a new military university does not have enough hearing for constructive proposals to help make military science in Croatia not only advanced but finally and isolated. So, to simplify for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we are not developing our military strategies, and then we wonder why we do not have enough quality discussions in public space about the acquisition of military equipment, aircraft and everything else. Without such strategies, all the other military equipment, I won't say it's too high, but it certainly can't be used in a quality way. In the previous debate that has lasted so far, we could hear a conversation on three topics within this legislative proposal. One is the attitude towards NATO and the question of whether Croatia should send an army to Hungary, the other is the issue of cybersecurity, and the third is the issue which is currently current and which has been the issue of the general issue of our security and thus the issue of the state of supply. When we talk about cybersecurity, I want to remind you, and this is what we were talking about when we discussed the Cyber Security Certificate Act that Croatia is also the target of cyber attacks by other countries that SOA is trying to oppose, and in this regard we have developed the SKAUT Central System for Disclosure and Early Warning and Protection against State-sponsored cyber attacks. But what I'm interested in is how does it work in practice? Government of the Republic of Croatia on 1 April 2021 decide on measures and actions to raise national early detection and protection capabilities against State-sponsored cyber attacks. What is allowed here is to include key services operators, digital service providers, critical national structures operators and other legal persons registered in the Republic of Croatia. So it is according to the regulation, and we have recently had one truly significant breach of cybersecurity regarding one of the most important mobile operators where their users' data came out. So in that sense, the question is whether we're doing really enough because we see that in this sense we're quite vulnerable when any threat comes, and the threat can also be military or cybernetic military character. When are we talking about Croatia's participation in NATO military and how much is Croatia threatened by this conflict? It is important to say that Croatia currently has a thousand soldiers on alert so-called ... and currently in Hungary on the NATO mission there are 15 of our soldiers who are there in office. If we send them now, they will, together with Slovakia, Slovenia and Hungary, form a NATO division. What matters to us here is that the area... of extreme importance for the safety of the Republic of Croatia is, in fact, by protecting that space, we are indirectly protecting our country. However, one question is what our obligations as NATO members are, the other is when a concrete military threat comes to how much all NATO members are willing to carry out their obligations, so we have the current situation with Hungary and its reluctant consent to NATO operating within it and it has allowed NATO troops to deploy in western Hungary, meaning only in western Hungary and shipments of weapons to move its territory to other NATO member states, it was in the government's regulation. So the question is how does the NATO alliance really work in the bang, given all other interests of all other countries in our environment. And in the end, I'm going to drive to what's really about stockpiles, not a good condition. During the Covid’s pandemic, this also served as an excuse for not controlling stock stocks, so the State Inspectorate or the Directorate did not exercise control. Earlier, malversions were present, and we now have insufficient stock supplies, given who is headed by the competent ministry, Minister Coric, I fear that the problems with the supplies will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96668	Thank you. The Republic has a respected representative, Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96669	Dear colleague Selak Raspadic. You mentioned a recent breakthrough, in fact you and I spoke about it at the time of our discussions, but this is not the first such situation that a significant system with a significant amount of personal data from Croatian citizens and citizens has been compromised. A year ago, two of these things happened in one of the Croatian hospitals, and then it was talked about in the media, but the impression is that these things are only known after they happen, or more likely to happen by chance than by targeting some kind of communication by the authorities. Do you think there's enough transparency about situations like these, so when the breach is already happening? Do you feel that there is a situation in which the public and the public are unable to know what happened and how do you feel that this should generally work in terms of public communication? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96670	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96671	Thanks for asking. So, as far as this part of the SOA is concerned on its pages is concerned, I suppose that these issues that the countries are jeopardizing us, and we would be happy to have access to these data and to the issue of state security, so we can't dispose of them, although interestingly in the defence report, many data that are indeed and the question of our security are easily revealed, in contrast to public procurement data that doesn't exist at the time of the crown because it's declared secret, so there are double standards. What is interesting when we talk about these breakthroughs in cybersecurity or cybersecurity that is present in Croatia is that there is not enough articulation even under EU directives, then, in consequence of our consumer rights legislation. So even this security certificate that we've been discussing remains voluntary and precisely because it allows some grey zone companies to have no special obligation to protect their users because they won't pay the fine. And I think INA a few years ago if I'm not mistaken, she also had a serious breakthrough in that sense. which is also a matter of national threat. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96672	Dear Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96673	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues. Given the geographical position of Croatia, then the countries with which we are bordering, and then also a certain form of floating mines in our neighbourhood, in your opinion that Croatia should be strategically positioned in the context of NATO itself, supply supplies, cyber security and all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96674	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96675	If Croatia really cared about its security, I will express myself more precisely, the current government, which manages the Republic of Croatia, would then resolve the key issue that is a prerequisite for conflict and which can always be escalated, which is respect for the Dayton Agreement, so the equality of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We did not use the mechanisms within the EU that we have at our disposal, secure our key strategic and security interest, enable the Croats to participate in the political life of BiH, so that we can say that not only have we not contributed to the stabilisation of BiH, but today and see how much its instability can cost us. So that's where we made a serious political failure, and as to whether it would escalate NATO countries are surrounded by the Republic of Serbia, so Given the distance from Russia, I believe that this kind of escalation will not come. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96676	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Ante Deura, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96677	In this debate, above all, what is most important and what is in the environment of our security, it is a matter of security but the Croatian state and people during their 30 years in the circumstances in which the modern Croatian state was created, in which everything was threatened by the stability of the Croatian people, the Croatian army since the Homeland War until today proved to be how far ahead President Tudjman had thought. At that time, we had as much as our colleagues today who are in opposition without diminishing their patriotism but certainly not understanding them or that activist who is always popular not thinking about security, about leadership, about survival. I would like to say that, above all, the Croatian army has continued to grow. Let us also remember former Defence Minister Damir Krstic, who, along with the Croatian Government, led by Andrej Plenkovic, former President Grabar Kitarovic and the opening of new military from Sinj, Vukovar when many at the time did not understand what it was, why this is happening, how much budget we now have all the time of a certain activism that is not under the circumstances in which Eastern Europe is today and the environment in which we are in. Today, the Croats are currently in BiH. I would like to welcome today in Tomislavgrad doctors who were then creating a military headquarters, which is then Croatian doctors, the war sanity at the head of wonderful people who came from Croatia to help leave warm hospitals, their families. Today is the anniversary of the field, and here I want to welcome them this way and thank them for all the human, human effort through the war in BiH that they gave at the time. I want to say about the abilities of the Croatian army. During the six years of this government, President Plenkovic and Minister Krsticevic, Minister Banozic, showed something, something that is leadership, proved to be recognizable. All that we've been through in the 1990s, remembering Vukovar, the cry, the impotence of the Croatian man, the infirmity of the cry, and regretting that we are not then in a family called NATO, which we are not in a family called the EU. Today we can give from this pay phone plus or minus to NATO or the EU but Croatia is not at risk. Croatia is in the strongest family today. Surely we have compassion for the people of Ukraine so they don't. Let us remember Srebrenica, all the cities that Serbian aggression has conquered. Today, the Ukrainian people are going through something similar. From this place they gave the declaration, but first of all Croatia is permanent. We have a strong Croatian army. Through the planes, unfortunately, our colleagues wanted to take from that part and put it elsewhere, not thinking about the safety of the people as it came into existence, in the indifference and financial and armed except love and empathy towards its homeland. Today we have a strong, professional army that has been recognized in the NATO alliance. We can be proud. It is certain that it is a European force, and France is the first military force in Europe and this shows that we are part of it, that these aircraft that we have bought are the greatest security in the environment in which we are. Listening to a colleague of the Rasudiæ yes, the Croatian people bled but then some did not understand because they fought for civil Bosnia without thinking about their people, but today it is important Let's be national, let's have value... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96678	Thank you, colleague Deur. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of the Kristulovic Opara.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96679	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague, dear representative Deur. You spent three months defending Vukovar as an abandoned warrior here on this occasion I repeat my congratulations both to you and to all the Vukovar defenders who today mark Wolf's Day. How your experience as a Vukovar defender today can be passed on to brave Croatian soldiers who will defend the security of Europe within NATO at the Hungarian borders, we are discussing this today. Tell me how you feel as a werewolf defender and how you see the possibility that this heritage of brave Croatian soldiers, but also victory in the Homeland War can be used as part of NATO's security umbrella, and all in connection with the document that we can be proud of, on the Homeland Thanksgiving strategy you worked on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96680	Thank you. Dear Representative Deur, thank you, thank you, dear representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96681	Thank you, Your Honor, for sure that during Vukovar and the Homeland War the Croatian people showed the ability, love, emotion under the leadership of the first Croatian president. Throughout all these years of strengthening the HV and its abilities today we have truly trained and quality HV with all the capabilities that, through all the missions that we are going through the EU and through NATO, it is something that gives young people security, gives new perseverances and I think that the Croatian state can be sure, that Croatian people can trust their HV and today as members of the EU and NATO can really be constant in all of this, unfortunately that we have been in the 1990s where we have no help and very little today, we can be safe and truly proud of everything that has been gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96682	The following will be spoken by honourable representative Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96683	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's the second week we've experienced the feeling we had in the '90s and the way we hoped we'd never feel again, but there's the Russian aggression that made us and the rest of the world feel like a narrator in that famous Vladimir Visock song about wild horses leading him over the edge of a break-in. Yet as much as we feel the icy wind of war on our faces, we're so aware that today we're not in the vulnerable position we were in back then. Just because we remember what it's like to be lonely in front of a ruthless aggressor today we're standing next to Ukraine at her moment of need. We have opened the doors of refugees, in the news here I hear there are nearly 4,000 of them in Croatia, we have sent help in medical supplies, protective equipment and weapons. Equally important, we've come close, we've joined the sanctions on Russia, even though we're aware that this will expose us to risks. Russia put us on the list of countries that make up, quote, hostile acts against the Russian Federation, Russian companies and Russian citizens. That means we'll be the target of Russian countermeasures, both economic and cybernetic. If we look back at my club, we personally have been warning about cyber threats and their dangers for a long time. We asked for a significant increase in that item in the budget, but then there was no hearing, okay. I am pleased that our experts will be involved in the fight against hybrid threats. I want to warn here of an important phenomenon in the digital eco system, which is so-called. The echo chamber. Often these days we hear Ukraine win the so-called. The propaganda war, they use memories, videos and social networks, but they win where, in the West, Russia doesn't win. In Russia, largely due to the effects of echo chambers and algorithmic prejudices on social networks, but also because of the repressive control of the media propaganda victory, Putin bears a 10% increase in the ratings in the last two weeks. This has implications for our neighborhood as well. The so-called The Serbian world of Dodik and Vukica Putin is a hero and some of them, like Bosko Obradovic, in Serbia, already project and wish war in BiH for claims that Sarajevo and mujahedin will attack Banja Luka. Such Putinovic should be fought primarily where their lies fall to the most fertile soil, in the digital eco system. Does Croatia have the capacity for such a fight? Is there any understanding of the battlefield and the weapons the other side controls? Does Croatia have a clear picture of what victory would be here in this case? That answer to this last question I can give. Escalating any conflict in the region, the Serbian world is a defeat, European values, peace and stability in the region that is a victory. Putinov, Dodik and Vukicev divide et ipmer it is defeat, unity in the fight for democracy, freedom and rule of law that is victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96684	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96685	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Glavasevic, you have touched on the themes of this digital eco world and the way false information is created by an indoctrinated people who then make the wrong political decisions. Do you have any idea how the academic community, especially historians, could in any way contribute to the understanding of some current political events in this digital world by spreading and placing the right information and their proper contextualization and in light of these recent events?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96686	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96687	Thank you for asking, and I'm glad you asked him because it's a very common one, one very common one, so I won't say a mistake, but a logical first step in thinking, if we have something that's false then we need to place information that's true, but it's just, it's just part of the answer, because phenomena like echo chambers aren't the kind of thing, just in what kind of information appears, but the thing is that it's a phenomenon of social networks where algorithms that show information to users and bring them together with other users create this one effect of echoes in which these false information is simply echoed and repeated, and thus they get momentum and strength. So the problem is solved by algorithms. So that's where we need to talk to big companies like Google, Facebook to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96688	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96689	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, here's a very close colleague of mine who's come to me on the point that I wanted to do the same to you as she did, so I'm going to rephrase a little bit. When you go to SOA sites, then you have a number of concepts that you can also monitor cybersecurity and specifically separate information security. You were, of course, talking about what we as a society can contribute to this cyber war, but how do you see from these proposals decisions where the Armed Forces in terms of cybersecurity will be sent, how much can there be a link to the forces of civil society that are important to us for cybersecurity? It means they connect with each other and perform together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96690	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96691	Well, that might be such a complex question. On the one hand, civil society and civil society forces are precisely in the independent action of one another. And I think it's a matter of more being viewed as something that's complementary than something that maybe, I think, sometimes there are situations where civil society and, say, armed forces or cybersecurity teams can act together. And civil society may have shown, in a period of time, that these feck checks are a kind of attempt to solve a part of the problem with a certain amount of success, but I think that the problem is, in fact, that civil society can have a lot more difficulty interacting with large companies in whose jurisdiction and whose greatest power is to solve the problem. So, I would still return the matter more to the institutions than to the civilian society in that part. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96692	Thank you. Now he will speak to the esteemed representative Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96693	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Secretary-General, colleagues and colleagues, we have two decisions in front of us to send Croatian soldiers to NATO's mission. I will in this short time consider cybersecurity and this cybernetic response team and direct assistance to cyber security. I think in the 21st century, but here in this aggression we see that hacker attacks today are considered the greatest threat to world peace and security. The threat from cyberspace is the fastest growing security challenge today, and the threat to the NATO alliance itself is becoming more and more frequent and complex, and the attack on one member could endanger the entire alliance. We've had such a recent attack, we've seen that there's also been a fall in a mobile network, access to certain data from the operator and the banking Internet system, and we know how much this can cause one country's problem itself. The introduction, which I am in the replica note, which is something that I am pleased to see the Ministry of Defence taking into account and doing exercises on, in this area, which is the very exercise Cyber Coalition that happened in Croatia at the end of last year. I think that these exercises should have more and that might be something that goes under the radar and it's good to go under the radar honestly sensitive subject and that's one of the special capabilities that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have been developing over the last few years, and this particular exercise Cyber Coalition has gathered over 1,000 participants from 34 NATO member states and partner countries, but what's important when we talk about cyber attacks, it's hybrid warfare that they involved other private and social institutions that have been involved in this exercise. Especially here is CARNET our scientific network, but also the colleges of computer engineering, the college of engineering, the Faculty of Transport, the Faculty of Law in Osijek, high school in Algebra, and is today when we look at what is actually a hybrid type of warfare and this why we send out 5 of our participants related to the cybernetic team.../incomprehensible/... that these are attacks that are not only a problem for defence purposes. So they're not, they're not attacks that only defend themselves, they're only the Ministry of Defense, they're just attacks that happen to affect the whole country all over the country. I think every country has a problem that exactly this kind of information infrastructure is often privately owned. It's hard to control this one, but there's a intelligence community and these cybernetic teams themselves must certainly give their pain. And at the beginning of this aggression itself, we saw that it was actually this war propaganda, the difamation of NATO itself, the differentiation of certain structures, but also one fake news that, every day we witness in our space that it was actually the first attack before the actual actual aggression, before soldiers or certain missile systems or anything else went to some country. That's how it happened here and in with the Russians. So we've seen a very strong rhetoric for several years and a lot of false news, but a lot of misinformation involving this very hybrid action in the choices of individual, individual countries, on the financial system, and that's one thing that convinces, one beginning where certain panic is sown normally among the people, among a particular nation, among a certain people, and then it's just going, just war action. Why is it important that we have this cybernetic team? Why is it important that, as the Secretary of State has told us, that the Ministry of Defense is very much developing, developing this ability, it's important just for the sake of common protocols. When we see 34 countries, when we see 1,000 participants, they can simply work quality only if they have a common language, if they have common protocols. So the cybernetic system, the hybrid type of attack, the hybrid type of action is very important in all future conflicts. My question was also at the beginning how much Croatia is a cybersafe country. I know, I repeat, it's not a subject we talk about and talk about more often than our services do in the background. I am pleased that both the university community and that certain companies are involved in this particular exercise, because this means that the Ministry of the Interior, as well as the Ministry of Defence, is taking these threats very seriously and that I believe that Croatia will ultimately be ready for any of these activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96694	And on your exhibit, we have more replicas. The first is the respected MP Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96695	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Bačić, today in the 21st century we live in a world where most attacks on modern democracies are mainly happening in cyberspace by hybrid action, as you mentioned in your debate. Therefore, there are certain disinformation systems that spread doubt and thus achieve certain objectives. What's your opinion? How much Croatia is a cybersafe country. Knowing our infrastructure owns the same and possible attack. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96696	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96697	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Baradic, for this replica. Here's how I finished the presentation my question was exactly how much Croatia is a cybersafe country. I've got an answer from the secretary of state, that we're working very hard on it, and we have no reason to be afraid. I always say what we see now in Ukraine. The first attack goes to telecommunications services, the first attack goes to that very infrastructure. The problem is every country in the modern and Western world, which is precisely this infrastructure is already 10, 20 or 30 years ago privately owned, and this difficult state can be involved and acted on its own. He has to act together with his private partners. Looking at the size of our country, looking at this team of cybernetics and the very ability of the army we've been developing since the time of Minister Krstičević, I believe it's working on, and this is exactly how our soldiers' participation will only make it easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96698	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96699	Your Honor, I'm glad you're... presented in his debate, which is that members of the military and civil society can work together on security and can work together on security. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore necessary to include the academic community and all those who are good and quality experts in this area. I would just like to draw your attention that it is an extremely important fact how secure Croatia is. Why? Because that also applies to EU security. We know that safety is as good as the weakest link. Therefore, if we are weak in that part, the EU will be weak, and we cannot afford it. Before we talked about where, I was talking about where all the information is actually used, where everything is used Internet and it's extremely important for our current life. But let's not forget that without it he can't continue to communicate, we can't continue to function.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96700	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96701	Thank you Vice President, I thank my colleague Pavić for this replica, and we are on a similar trail and I see that we may have devoted a little space to this other part, which is cybernetics itself. We talked more about the aggression itself in Ukraine. I will only repeat this sentence that you have highlighted, and this is exactly a threat to NATO's alliance there is increasingly often, and an attack on one member could endanger the entire alliance. We also know now that the information infrastructure is not to mention the internet operators that are foreign operators that we've discussed here a lot about tax policies themselves and we've seen that we can't just control things, that we can't even charge for things, but we can't control the system itself. And we've seen now attacks on exactly Russia that go exclusively and first on such services and on such devices, which are telecommunications. If you separate one country from the world, and very simply with several cables and several transmitters you can do it, it can be dangerous for the whole world.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96702	Thank you. Dear Representative Krstulović Opara.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96703	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague. We are witnessing right now at the time of Russia's aggression on Ukraine's strong cybernetic and hybrid attacks on general public opinion. With algorithms on our screens, our phones appeared, news appeared that conditioned thinking and even some of our colleagues who were against voting for the Declaration on Ukraine, who spoke of the unnecessary demilitarisation of Croatian society as it esculates NATO. And NATO has just been the target of these attacks lately where we've had a chance to hear that there's a Russian attack should be justified because Ukraine attacked Russia because it has a nuclear weapon. How do you look at these attempts and how do you resist it? Because it's about extremely fragile, unusually important and sensitive subjects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96704	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96705	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Krstulović Opera, on the replica. I fully agree with you and during the debate on the Ukraine Declaration itself, which is here I look forward to bringing it almost unanimously to the Croatian Parliament, but in a report last week by the Prime Minister on the state of Ukraine we were just talking about and on the subject we see not only in Croatia where it may not be such a problem, but we see in the environment that there are certain actors who, for their oxy reasons, normally stand on one side, have been trying here specifically to side with Russia for years to make a certain distinction of the NATO alliance's path, accuse them. That's dangerous stuff. Why? Simple portals, media, social networks carry it over, certain opinions are being drawn up. What stands in the background is questionable, but it can in any case compromise the system of a single state, especially when it comes to the attack.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96706	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96707	Well, thank you, Your Honor. Given what parliamentary majority you are coming from, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you do not take for granted this agreement of all parliamentary clubs, as well as the opposition on some of the issues that are important to our common national security, namely, I would like you to respect also some suggestions and recommendations. In your speech, you asked rhetorically how secure Croatia is, and I would like the home defence committee of HS to define what data we need to have in order to be able to assess ourselves as a representative body of citizens whether Croatia is safe enough or not and would also like to include more significantly in these activities the academic community with its information, interpretations, suggestions and comments.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96708	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96709	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleagues, Oreshkovic, on the line. I agree fully with you regarding the academic community, and I have therefore highlighted the Cyber Coalition activities and this exercise that took place together with the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence and certain other public institutions, including a large number of universities and a large number of universities from Split, Zagreb and Osijek from computer to law school, and that's a good thing because cyber attacks and cybersecurity concern the entire public space and there without private actors, public, without government, without a ministry, we can definitely do nothing as a country ourselves. As for the consent of the opposition and the ruling, it should not be negative for anyone. These are serious topics, and these are the serious moments we're in, and it's a big plus that we have this big agreement and we can work very well on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96710	Dear Representative Budalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96711	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor. We are witnessing that through the conflict in Ukraine and the spread of false news in media space... is a certain damage. Is it a cyber attack through our media space if we testify to the increasing entry of Serbian capital into Croatian media and to what extent, how can we protect ourselves from such activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96712	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96713	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, fellow Budalic, for that replica. I'll take advantage of my failure to reach my colleague Oreshkovic at the back of the Defence Committee itself. I agree with you there are things and foreign capital what we say about internet domains and Internet operators, these are all foreign companies located in Croatia and media houses. We have seen an attempt, but certain acquisitions in our area related to the television houses themselves. That's the problem if it's uncontrollable, we need to know what the state's interest is. We had a recent and closed defence committee session where the Director of the Military Intelligence Agency was, he gave us some things, convinced us that they were following the situation to react to every type of threat. Now as much as that, it was still a closed session as we can share it here with all the MPs, yet we have signed related to qualified data. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96714	Dear Representative Balic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96715	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Bacic. These two decisions that we are discussing today are repeatedly highlighted today as being made in the context of aggression against Ukraine. It is indisputable that EU Member States should jointly strengthen cyber-resistantness and also develop common opportunities for cyber-security and defence in order, of course, to respond quickly and adequately to security challenges, all of which, of course, in coordination with NATO. It is therefore necessary to take clear steps to strengthen the defence cybernetic capacity, and thus to strengthen European security. The participation of the Republic of Croatia in this project is certainly one of the steps that will be taken to contribute to this and my question in this regard has been, in your opinion, necessary to take further steps towards this clear security defence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96716	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96717	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleagues Balic for this replica. I'm not going to say cybernetics is a new thing, but there's a certain number of decades, and now we see exactly this example of Russian aggression in Ukraine, and now we see an example of how harmful and dangerous it can be. I am also pleased that you have pointed out at European level that certain institutions have been involved in the debate, under discussion I mean not only demagogical or political but also I see that the European Parliament's representatives are also looking for certain steps and the European Commission itself to take in this field. We know ourselves that the European Commission does not normally interfere with such conflicts at the level of arms supply, equipment and cybernetics that it is now involved. It is simply a problem that is ahead of us, we team no matter how many people we have sent to this cybernetic team we have in Morh a special ability that deals exclusively with it, so I think that the Croatian state has taken it seriously that together with partners it will do it well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96718	He will now speak finally on behalf of the Centre and GLAS MP, Dalija Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96719	Thank you. My fellow MPs and MPs. In my opening statement, I was saying that war conflicts are not the only danger that threatens us, I was saying among other things, that this wartime wartime wartime rhetoric very often comes upon fertile soil where democracy becomes dysfunctional, so it becomes dictators that have their military power, very often and nuclear that then becomes a threat to all. In other words, when we talk about security, we need not only to ask ourselves what our military defence forces are, but also what our defence forces are in terms of the functioning of democracy, some constitutional rights and the ratio of power between our HS and other competent authorities. I also drew attention to the fact that this decision has a very lacking explanation which lacks concrete data and a causal link between some of the crucial and historical ones, let us now call it, historic events, from the agreement under NATO's 2014 alliance to 2016, until this situation in February when our defence minister in Brussels gave consent to further strengthening the Allied Restraint and Defence Law. Why am I saying that? Because we in HS have one problem, and that is that our role is practically derivated in the sense that it is written in the provisions of the constitution. The Parliament no longer has almost no control power, and in the executive power, so we have a person who may not be there and in these circumstances of extreme world tension and crisis, we have to face the fact that we have a defence minister who, for the beginning of the conflict of interest, has abused his position and authority to assign himself an apartment that does not belong to him and that we now have the confidence that such a person who, I dare say from this stage, has provided himself with a very henhouse manner of pettyness, so that he will be firm and determined at international level in these military issues in which we know that there are various interests and various speculators where they are different, as to say, with corrupt intentions, powerful people are involved in decision-making processes by the public authority, and no one has said a single word of this day. We also have a major problem with the intransparency of the Ministry of Defence's work, which does not answer many journalists exactly where journalists are on the verge of revealing new corrupt affairs. And the third thing, we have a problem with both discipline and control of discipline in the military itself, in which, unfortunately, many of them are found in the situation that the consummations of various intoxicating agents are. Unless we are able to set first of all the criteria for who may be the minister at the head of this ministry, especially in such sensitive conditions, then I don't think we're up to the role that the constitution puts before us. And let's just remember under what circumstances Andrej Plenkovic replaced the Minister of Health Mr. Kujundzic when he said the world expects a new large pandemic crisis, so that someone who has personal corrupt affairs will be able to devote himself to one big goal and now we have more or less copy paste situation in another portfolio. Once again, we have a minister who has a handful of his own problems, and a global crisis that needs to be dealt with and to be answered by the kudikam is beyond the crisis of the coronary pandemic of the virus, so I ask Andrej Plenkovic if he is now able to apply his own criteria and... To two different resolution ministries? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what I'm going to appeal to again is that the Parliament is re-returning its role and the power it should have had, which is that, through the Resorial and Parental Working Body of the Defence Committee, it defines what kind of data it is and what arguments it must have in the future, have a decision like this so that this agreement and agreement of the opposition parliamentary clubs is not just principled. but there are also some suggestions to be expected.../The speaker has been disabled.... [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96720	Thank you. Dear Representative Ante Bačić, Darko Klasic will now speak for HSLS and Reformist in the final, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96721	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the assembly, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In less than 100 years. Information technologies have completely changed their way of life. These days often mentioned Swift is basically an international system for electronic implementation of financial transactions through which more than 77 billion transactions go through annually and are connected to almost all banks in the world. Thanks to him, you can pay for lunch in Patagonia or buy cell phones in Singapore. At the same time, Swift and the banking system is entirely one of the best indicators of how sensitive modern society is to cyber attacks. A month ago, a minor from Slavonski Brod managed to break through company A1's database, what can only the state's informed and funded teams of hackers? Far from the eyes of the public, Israel and Iran daily wage bitter battles on the information battlefield. It is so on 24 and 25 April 2020. Iran's intelligence tried to launch a cyber attack on Israel's drinking water power system. Part of the report states that the attack was aimed at suspending water supply, but part claims that the attackers tried to reach a water disinfection control system. US airlines have requested a delay in introducing 5G mobile networks to airports in fear that their data transmission capacity will allow terrorists to crash planes or even take full control of the flight. Global cybernetic issues are on the rise, and a growing number of sophisticated cyber attacks in health care will depend on modern society on cybertechnology for new approaches to cybersecurity. Many American, Canadian and European private and public organisations are victims of frequent attacks whose damage directly and largely affects competitiveness and sustainability. As members of NATO and the EU, Croatia is potentially the target of state-sponsored cyber attacks that are thoroughly planned, advanced and persistent, often marking a high level of expertise and cover-up of the perpetrators. State-sponsored cyber attacks focus on selected vital targets and implement them in organised hacker groups linking them to the intelligence systems of individual countries. Because of all this cybersecurity has become an inseparable part of national and global security. The normal course of life of all of us, no matter how informative we are, and how much we serve the benefits of the information world, we are addicted to cybersecurity today in this digital world. This project plans to quickly create a multinational network to respond to cybernetic teams composed of cyber defence experts from NATO member states, and unlike other multinational initiatives in cyber defence focusing mainly on sharing and sharing cybersecurity information. Finally, HSLS supports all efforts to improve cybersecurity in order to protect the national and EU cyberspace, more so if it takes place within the PESCO programme, as well as the decision to include Croatia in NATO's activities as part of NATO's increased vigilance activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96722	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Ante Bačić will speak finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96723	Thank you, dear Vice President. Again, welcome to the secretary of state and the secretary-general of the ministry. I think that at the end of this final address, when we listened to individual debates, but when we listened to all the colleagues who spoke on behalf of the clubs, it was good that we were on the same page, not to mention a similar lead regarding these two decisions involving members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the missions and activities of NATO and for increased vigilance in Hungary, but for this establishment. Not the establishment but the formation of a cybernetic response team and mutual assistance in cybersecurity. Both of these decisions have the support of the president of the state, normal and government of the Republic of Croatia, and we see here and the foundation, by which we send our soldiers into these activities from summits in Wales to meetings of the European Council itself until NATO meetings related to heads of state, foreign ministers and others, and it is important to stress here that nothing is new, that this is in fact the sole continuation of the presence of NATO forces themselves at NATO's borders, and we must always stress that. But we also have to stress normally that there has been a change in the geopolitical situation, but also a security situation in Europe, something that perhaps yesterday we couldn't imagine that could happen 500km from Croatia or a few kilometers from the border of the NATO alliance, whether it is Poland or Hungary, and that's one threat that could threaten the entire Alliance itself. Generally, this is all we have talked about and we must simply be present, it is our obligation as a member of the Alliance, not only is it our obligation to do so gives one particular ability to the Croatian military what we have been seeking to do since the 1990s and to be in such an alliance, that we have this experience that we can apply it to the protection of our borders. But this is one tendency since the '90s when we remember the first Croatian president, Dr. Tudjman, but also our policy of the 1990s, which was a policy that was just an alliance, a policy where we had an aspiration to enter both the EU and NATO. And what I have asked several times as a rhetorical question through this debate, which would be that in this environment where Croatia has always been interesting and traffic and security, which would be if we were not a member of both the EU and NATO. I think we'd be in a much worse position, not to mention the economy, just to mention security at this point. But I repeat, this also gives us a certain commitment as an EU Member State and the only one in this part of Southeast Europe, among the only NATO member states in this same area, it gives us one particular obligation, it is difficult to say control, control of the environment itself, but we must be definitely more awake than others if we represent and defend the borders of the entire NATO alliance. And by looking at our economic situation, but also by security we can't allow any escalation, no aggression attempt in our environment, and we can't even allow and we must control and keep an eye on and have enough information if even the slightest incident near our border is being prepared, because we have to protect both our tourism and our economy. My own thesis is that we do not need to be afraid and that we should not be skeptical and run away from the role of leaders in Southeast Europe, I think that we definitely deserve it and that we must be and that it is our responsibility when we see who we have partners, when we see what kind of border we have and what kind of environment we have. We must impose ourselves here a little bit stronger than we have as a state, but all in all, looking at this and these two decisions shows that we are on a good track, that we have a good reputation among our partners in the alliance and that this is definitely one thing we must do and that we must do and for the security position in which Europe is located through the alliance we must protect and the Republic itself. I invite you to the HDZ Club to support a joint decision like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96724	She will now speak with a respected representative, Selak Rasudic, final on behalf of the Representatives' Club Mosta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96725	This is because my colleague Bačić spoke about the need to impose ourselves and impose ourselves more strongly in the environment, I will mention once again that we have Ban Josip Jelačić War School and that the issue of attending and completing that school is a matter of prestige for all the countries that are in our environment, however, we do not take advantage of the potential of this war school and I am sure that in terms of developing its capacities together we could do much, much more. The current question is whether Croatian soldiers should go to Hungary or to what extent should we participate in NATO missions? As I mentioned earlier, we currently have about 1,000 soldiers on alert, but the decision on how many will be made and where they will be deployed depends on the political will of the Member States. In that sense, we are invited here to decide together on the basis of the arguments that we will do and how concretely we will do. And here I want to remind myself of the role and responsibility of the assembly in military policies. An annual defence report is being discussed in the Croatian Parliament every year. There is a question of the declassification of confidential data and of what may be revealed within these reports as well as a security threat. It is not looked after in this context, but it is looked after in some other contexts that we consider to be the supply of medical equipment in view of the Covid crisis which is already in the sunset that should be far more transparent. There is also our key strategic document, the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2015 to 2024. Apparently, there's a new one going now. What, though, of that old man’s achievements, what was the actual cost of money? Asking these questions is the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament, but most often we return to our old pain. Have we even asked the committee in charge the right questions and whether there is a democratic control mechanism to achieve a plan for the development of the Armed Forces or whether it is another in a series of documents that most have not even read? How important is the issue of military capacities and military equipment and the possibility of responding to the crisis, so the security issue is best visible today. Yes, in our environment there are also short-sighted policies that would always come under the auspices of peace-making resources for military capabilities. However, I would like to remind you that no one is in the interest of war. Nor does anyone advocate a high - quality, modern and capable army who is adequately equipped to do so because they want us to send these soldiers into conflict tomorrow. All those who do this do it exclusively, and I speak for us because we have always advocated an army that will be modern and self-sufficient, because they are political realists, because they know that the only possibility in the uncertain world we live in today is to defend ourselves so that we are well equipped enough that no one dares to attack us. So maybe for someone paradoxical, but seemingly paradoxically logically, in order to remain in peace, we need to be equipped as if we could go to war tomorrow. As for sending our soldiers to Hungary, two things need to be pointed out. The area of the Pannonian Valley is of paramount importance for the safety of the Republic of Croatia, so by protecting it we are also directly protecting the Croatian border because, of course, it is our goal to have any war action as far away as possible. But the question is whether we will send our soldiers to Hungary, in what capacity and how long it depends on both will and will as a NATO member country. It should also be pointed out that Hungary allowed the deployment only in western Hungary and that in practice we see unlike the theory that when such a serious military threat comes, given all the interests of the countries that are within the NATO Pact, which are to be reconciled, it is much more difficult to achieve cooperation between different countries than in theory. Let us all hope together that this will be the last moment of such a serious military threat where we will have to activate the Croatian Parliament in this way and decide to send our army at close proximity And we hope that this sending will remain only in Hungary and will [[Intruder: Thank you.]] In the end, be a peace mission. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96726	Now, finally, on behalf of the HSS and Workers' Front Club, a respected representative, Katarina Peovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96727	Good afternoon. First of all, to say that this is an isolated opinion, so on behalf of the club, I'm speaking, but I'm voting out. The second thing I'm saying absolutely means as the Workers' Front, we condemn the attack on Ukraine. We believe it is extremely important at this point to advocate an end to the conflict right now. What we disagree with is that an end to the conflict can be achieved by the concentration of the military at NATO's borders. Consistent with the peace, peace, humanitarian, anti-militarist and anti-Imperialist policies I represent, I will not vote in favour of the government's proposal for the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of NATO's enhanced vigilance activities in Hungary, which will send 70 members of the Croatian Armed Forces to Hungary as part of NATO forces. I will remind you that Croatia entered NATO in 2008 without a referendum. The moment we entered NATO, we were told that we would be safer and one of the arguments was that we would spend less on the army. We now see that we are spending more than 2% of GDP on the military, and it has been said that independent armed forces will cost about 3%, which is also probably a little bit excessive. Either way, we're not safer. We believe that the first goal should be to end all conflicts and insist on establishing peace, but we do not agree that it can be achieved so that the forces can be concentrated and we have heard here from some, I must express a surprise that I will be the only one who will not support this proposal because I was almost convinced that those who stand and who, like me, represent the activist associations that have become, have sent a series of applications for peace these days are on my side, but here the argument that now peace can only be achieved by the concentration of weapons and military at the border, means NATO towards Ukraine. Although it is not often heard through the media, there are a number of countries that have not sent weapons and armies. We also welcome the Swedish prime minister who refused, meaning Sweden's entry into NATO alliance, believing it to be the type of argument, that type means politics would destabilise Europe. Here we are in favour of returning to agreements and charters such as the Mine Two and the Budapest Treaty as well as the NCF Charter The conventional armed forces in Europe treatment from 1990, the ABM Charter The Anti-Balistic Missile Treaty of 1972 between the United States and Russia as well as the New Strategic Arms Reform Treaty Charter between the United States and Russia from 2011. The geopolitical games that foreign parties lead cannot justify human sacrifice. We believe that Croatia should be committed to calming the conflict at the same time without agreeing to include our soldiers in the war. And finally, I repeat here we are standing by the appeals of the peace associations in Croatia whose voice we are representing here and we finally feel that we need to fight militarism at home which we see only stronger and growing in the last days and we think it will not be better. However, the militarisation of society has begun and will continue to grow. We believe that it is a task, so if you want the left to be anti-militarist at this point, to fight militarism at home, against imperialist policies around the world, and to put the interest, the common interest of the working people ahead of the interests of political elites, capital and especially military-industrial factions of that capital, and therefore not war among nations, not peace among the classes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96728	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, the respected representative Željko Pavić will speak finally, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96729	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I'll remind you again that this is actually about two topics that are united. It is one thing to send the Armed Forces to Hungary, and the other is that our people are trained to be more competent in the defence of both the EU and the Republic of Croatia. So I hope that those who have said they will not vote for these proposals that this applies only to the first proposal concerning the concentration of NATO forces at the borders, given that this was mentioned earlier, and that this second law, i.e. the decision and the motion for a decision, will vote. I guess. I hope the respected MPs also realized that there were some woods and I believe that Mr. Secretary was having a hard time listening to some debates, given that there were great delusions and completely missed topics. I'm talking about cybersecurity. There have been a lot of missed debates and I hope it's clear to everyone that we have to defend our own internet space, that we have to defend our cyberspace because it's vital to us. Since I don't want to mention the Internet of Things, I don't want to mention those ground floor things that happen in our households, small businesses. Let's just talk about big things. We're no matter what we have top experts who can handle the attacks on the outside, but we're sensitive again. I'll just remind you that about six, seven, eight years ago, we were a few days without internet in Croatia. And that wasn't the reason the attack, the reason was that one telecom company was changing the hardware base. I don't want to talk now about which companies they moved from to another company and it happened in fact that in the documentation that was provided with the equipment that was delivered were incorrect data. And when the equipment came to an 80% load, you know what I'm talking about, Mr. Secretary, when the equipment came to 80% of the Internet system in the Republic of Croatia it fell. And we were out of the Internet for a few days. Zagreb, however, has a shorter time. I happened to be at a conference after two, three days in Sibenik, Sibenik still didn't have the Internet. Therefore, we are sensitive, and we need to take care of it. And let us not afford to be against such government decisions, no matter what we are an opposition, let us not afford to be lagging behind in the development of our people, let us not allow our experts to lag behind in their knowledge because of the wrong decisions being made. It's my appeal as a man who's been dealing with IT and who's been dealing with security for a long time, despite the security of information systems and protection but for a long time. And we have to take care of what I appealed for when I had my speech before the debate. I told Mr. Secretary again if it is possible for these knowledge that our soldiers acquire, pardon members of the Croatian army to acquire courses and various activities they will have in that group if it is possible to expand it to the civil sector and that as many people as possible have those competences. This is also very important for the functioning of large systems, it is not only important for Croatia as a state. Any system in the Republic of Croatia that has any other importance has a serious IT system and is subject to major attacks. These major attacks are prevented in various ways, but in order to prevent this effectively and in time you need to have knowledge, you need to have competences. Without it, it can't work. These people don't go to school without a clue that everything's clear, that anything can go without a problem, then it shouldn't be schooling. We currently have a lot of equipment, a variety of equipment both in Croatia and in Europe, and we need to get to know these equipment, and we need to know exactly how to do it so that we remain safe, safe and that we can use these systems that we are currently using, that we can live normally and that we can function normally. Thank you very much. And finally, let me point out, the Social Democrats Club will support both proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96730	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State Zdravko Jakob will speak finally, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96731	Honorable Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. First of all, thank you for your discussion and support regarding the proposed decisions. I can only say on my own behalf and the institutions that I represent here that everything that was mentioned in the debates, not only in the debates, but also in between, we will further consider and analyze to make our work even better, because we too have to learn from others and we have to study constantly. I thank all those who have recognized cyber in the draft budget, but so that there is no false understanding be assured that we will support such, all such amendments, but if you will not go to the expense of other items of the Ministry of Defence not, specifically this time went to the item of the plane, if you lack something to pay the bill then it is difficult to send such an account for payment. And let me also say briefly, very briefly that the Ministry of Defence was a completely transparent institution that works with, in accordance with the law and regulations, and I can say that the finding of the last internal audit was an unconditional opinion. I worked at that time so I felt the need not only for myself but for all the people who work at the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces to point it out. As far as that drug problem was concerned, make sure we don't want any of this to happen at all. We are part of society, but what was done after that is that it has taken a series of measures in terms of improvement and prevention not only at the level of the Ministry of Defence but also in HV units. I would also like to say that as far as I know, the Committee for Conflict of Interest has not made any decision yet, so that it does not prejudge matters. And as for war school, I'm just gonna tell you that I'm one of these proud members of that war school. I'm here today in front of you, but another little thing, it's practically in the background of Ukraine today. The first student of the war school as a stranger was in my generation, he was Ukrainian. He's having a hard time today. Maybe it's because of the truth and that we're at less than 2% of the budget today, and that in PESCO they're acceptable and civil structures. So we also have a number of projects that include civil structures in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, but also other EU member states because as I was saying, 25 countries are also involved in the institutions of these countries. Finally, I thank you once again for the debate and be sure that the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces will continue to carry out their tasks in accordance with the constitution, be sure that our borders are safe, that we will do our tasks in international missions and tasks as best as possible. We have received a lot of praise and I hope that we will be proud of doing these tasks further, but we will also jump in whenever it takes and wherever it takes to help our civilian structures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96732	We have one replica of the respected representative, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96733	It's just for the truth that I like more than Plato. So we've exceeded 2% of GDP with Rafael, so that's your Secretary of Defense's statement, don't just deceive the public. It doesn't matter, but we've singled out a lot less than 2% of GDP for defence, so with the purchase of these planes, we've gone over that 2%, but not to argue, these are huge funds for Croatia. Germany is only now, so in this situation it crosses 2% of GDP and is opting out more for the military. We've crossed 2% of GDP before this war.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96734	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96735	I would be very happy if you were right, but I must say that the truth is on my side and will always be on my side because I will not allow myself to say something that is not true for this speaker. That's why we're below 2%. I wish we were more than 2%, be sure because they'd be much easier to meet all the demands, the justified demands of our HV and our armed forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96736	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when we get the conditions. We are now going to the next point, which is: - The final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the project "Croatian Meeting for Sustainable, Fair and Effective Education", second reading, P.Z. No. 254. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 207a. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The above-mentioned Article. 207a. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that the laws to be approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by international contracts are, as a rule, adopted in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(1). The 197th Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education Stipe Mamic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96739	... in HS. [[Specially enabled.]] In accordance with the Government's decision of 14 October 2021, The mandated delegation of the Republic of Croatia concluded the formal negotiations in the proposed loan agreement for the project "Croatia to meet sustainable, fair and effective education" with representatives of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. After the government adopted its 83rd session, a report on the 16 December talks in Zagreb last year, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Zdravko Maric signed a loan agreement. The World Bank's 25m-euro loan is intended to create a whole-day teaching model based on the best European scratches of its experimental performance in 50 schools, their infrastructure adjustment for the new concept of school and the time students spend in it. The evaluation of experimental implementation conducted by the NCVV in parallel with national exams with a natural control group of also 50 schools and the strengthening capacity of the Ministry of Science and Education for the implementation of reforms and other not only reforms of the basic education system. Most of the loan will be used to adjust the infrastructure of 50 schools and carry out standardised exams. Financial liabilities to be created for the Republic of Croatia as a borrower under the loan agreement referred to in Article 2(1)(b) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1st of this law will be planned and settled in accordance with the provisions of the rules on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for the years '27-'32. according to the payment plans until the final loan payment. As the discussion on the parent board said that the text of the contract did not show much, and I must stress that it is a common practice not to publish a document that is not in our jurisdiction or for all loans of the World Bank there is a accompanying document called pad or.../The speaker speaks English./... which is a document of the bank and the bank of course... by signing the contract immediately published on its websites the text of the contract itself as well as the accompanying document. So for no loan, the document was not sent to the parliamentary procedure, so I would say something more detailed about the loan and inform all MPs in the shortest lines, which is the content of this case, the subject of this loan or what will be planned activities. The loan consists of three components, the first component is the title For more learning hours, for which 3.3 million euros are planned, and within the same framework, the Ministry of Science will provide support by the bank and its experts on the development and provision of support for the implementation and monitoring of the system of day-to-day teaching, while learning in order to apply the lessons learned in the introduction of day-to-day courses to a number of schools in the future. The financed activities will include the development of a system of day-long teaching and details of its key features such as the organisation of a new extended school day that is consistent with the new curricula and provides more time per mission. Making a new pedagogical model, education, mentoring program for directors, etc., a whole series of activities. This component will also identify the best bangs based on international research to improve learning outcomes among students in an unfavourable position. This first component also consists of two sub-components, the first sub-component is the development of a system of day-long teaching and its improvement after experience gained in the first years of reform, or in the piloting phase. The aim is to support the ministry under the components, of course, in the design of a full-day primary education course. Under the component, technical assistance will be financed for the development of support, adaptation, the basis of lessons gained in the first years of implementation or piloting, all including the development of guidelines to extend learning time for all students and the inclusion of additional extracurricular activities, the definition of pedagogical practices and in line with the new curricula, the development of education models for teachers, the involvement of professors and experts from higher education institutions who will educate teachers on the implementation of full-day teaching. The main outcome of this sub-component will be lessons that the ministry and partners will learn in the first phases of implementation of the programme and lessons will be based on indicators and feedback from students, teachers, parents, school principals, etc., and will allow for continuous improvements in the implementation of the system of full-day teaching. In addition, the framework of this sub-component will support the creation and establishment of a mentoring programme among schools as mentors in which the directors of demonstration schools in which students achieve weaker success and located in very poor areas will cooperate with the directors of the most successful schools, small donations will be allocated to finance the necessary costs for the purchase of different learning materials, possibly some information equipment, education to be carried out, etc. The second sub component is related to the use of administrative data and data on student success to improve learning in the same. It envisions 1.3m euros under it will strengthen key areas of education data collection policies that will benefit all stakeholders, including teachers, parents, directors and students. Key data will be provided by the NCVO to carry out national tests and evaluations of learning outcomes derived from the implementation of the system of day-to-day teaching. The second component is related to the design and experimental implementation of infrastructure solutions for day-to-day teaching, for which 15.7m euros are foreseen. It will support the design of new infrastructure standards for Croatian schools that will include sensitivity besides other climate change, install seismic resistance in building upgrades, and include OECD and EU standards in different areas of climate change, environment and energy efficiency, which will contribute significantly to the European Green Plan as well. This component will also finance smaller infrastructure, smaller infrastructure investments in the selected group of schools. The assumption is that all those who will be able to apply that they have to work in one shift, around 50 schools that will be chosen by a public call and serve as a pilot of this reform. There will be no new schools under this project, we have other sources for that. We also have more sub-components. It is the first to build new infrastructure standards for schools, the bank will provide technical assistance to the ministry through the engagement of different experts for school transition to modern climate-resistant and energy-efficient, efficient among other designs and standards of school infrastructure, following the best international and European practices. The project will support the development of new infrastructure standards, as I said and quality planning, respecting all these necessary and common climate policies, these environments etc.. The second sub-component is related to the creation of demonstration schools, and in principle there goes the maximum amount of funds, 15.4 million euros, pardon and will be financed for these smaller infrastructure investments, meaning that these are schools that are already working in one shift, but that have some certain needs, for example, of additional equipment as the model predicts that all children at school will have an hour for lunch, so it is understood that they must have an adequate kitchen, an adequate dining room, that possibly if they have an outdated equipment they need to renovate, etc., equip nature, cabinets and so on. Demonstration schools, these 50 demonstration schools will be selected through a public call, meaning an open competition to which the power will apply all those who want to do so, or with adequate consent that will have to come, and these consents will likely include the consent of the school board, the founder of the school and the board of parents. The third component is to strengthen the ministry for the implementation of these reforms, which are envisioned, the ministry's capacity, for which 6m euros are foreseen. Direct support will be provided in key aspects of implementing reforms such as the establishment of different teams to manage the project, monitor, evaluate and communicate with the public. This component will also support the maintenance of seminars and education and knowledge exchanges to support reforms, address the various open issues that will take place during piloting and setting themselves up. We also have more sub-components. One sub-component is support to establish this project management team. It envisions 2.7m euros. The second sub-component is to update the cost of introducing full-day teaching, revising national regulations, drawing up plans for local network schools. That's what 800,000 euros are supposed to be for. It includes different technical assistance, of course education, capacity-building as support to the ministry, for designing, implementing and expanding the system of full-time teaching, reviewing national rules on teacher work, students with special needs, school autonomy, organisation of a school day review of human resources in the school sector, auditing the cost of reform with the aim of introducing a full-time course to ensure consistency with education policy reforms, carrying out an assessment of needs and education on school management, and providing support to local self-government in adapting their local school network and promoting their participation in the system of day-to-day teaching. The third sub-component is related to the support of other educational strategic reform initiatives. This was also agreed in the negotiations phase with the bank that, apart from the primary education system within the NPOO, we took over various reform activities related to early and pre-school education and education, which are related to the system of secondary education, which are related to higher education and science and the bank with its teams is already in the stage of preparation of this project, and the preparation lasted more than a year, hired a whole series of experts who came from Denmark, the Netherlands, Portugal, Poland, Slovenia etc. and worked on preparing all these activities and coordinating what the program is and what we're going to do. What is also important, and this will be financed from the next sub-component is the financing of a research programme for documenting results, 1.8m euros are foreseen. The aim of the sub-component is to support the establishment of a research programme to monitor and analyse the impact of full-day teaching, which includes the implementation of the evaluation of impacts on outcomes in demonstration schools, demo means that they are piloted and compared to a statistically valid group of control schools, means that the ministry will determine parallelly if 50 in the pilot and 50 with similar attributes and features that will be the control group in order to compare differences in average learning outcomes in students, and in learning outcomes in an unfavourable situation in order to use data in a timely manner for future reform activities, or to use the expertise of other national and educational institutions for the benefit of pupils and teachers. The impact evaluation will be followed by three cohorts of students, students in the first, fifth and seventh classes at the beginning of the reform. when demonstration schools introduce day-to-day classes, i.e. those that are in the pilot and their progress throughout the project period, both in demonstration and in control schools. The assessment of the situation at the start of the project will serve as an initial state that will be compared to the data at the end of the third year of the project and the fifth year of the project. The comparison will show the effects of all-day teaching. The impact evaluation will measure basic reading literacy, Croatian language, mathematical literacy, and science-related subjects, depending on the age being studied. Data on parental status will also be collected as part of the impact evaluation. In addition, the National Centre for External Evaluation and Education plans to conduct a series of surveys to measure socioeconomic status and the well-being of student satisfaction and motivation with a view to monitoring the progress of the project. The big ones, we expect great benefits from this entire project, the long-term benefits resulting from better outcomes of students, which means qualified final grade students ready for better paid and more productive jobs on the labour market. Short-term benefits such as increasing system efficiency, increasing income availability, that was my... Yeah, yeah, thanks. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Enhancing the efficiency of the system, increasing the available income of parents especially in low-income households, increasing the participation of mothers in the labour market while reducing gender gaps that will increase GDP and reduce poverty rates by using additional EU funds to implement reforms, which we have already talked about during the amendment. I'll do it again briefly. This is a major reform, big projects, and unlike some of the previous times, we have great resources at our disposal to support these reforms. Only within the curricula of recovery and resilience available for the system of education and science is 7.5 billion kuna of which 5.1 billion kuna for the system of pre-term education, and 2 billion and 400 for the system of higher education. All sectors of the education system are represented and, of course, we also have at our disposal a multi-annual financial framework for the next financial period in which programming is now under way. The great focus of reform next to this primary goal, which is the better results of our children, is generally on those who are system holders, these are, of course, our teachers. We expect a lot of newspapers, a lot of changes. It's been preparing for a while, but it's gonna take a while to finish the model. It must be over of course before we go to a public call so that those who report know what changes they can expect, which means this new school day, which will mean for each individual child, which will mean for their parents and ultimately what it will mean for each teacher. There will be different solutions. We were when we negotiated with consultants internationally whether to focus only on the first cycle or on both. The decision is that we'll still go with the changes in both cycles. What is one lasting message, which is on the trail of what our Prime Minister is saying, is that catching up to come into a situation that, in this way, with the implementation of such a reform that will last for many years as quickly as we catch up with the countries of developed Western democracies and achieve much better results than it is today. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96740	Thank you. Before you even started talking, there was a whole series of replicas. Then let's take the turn. The first respected representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96741	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, since he knew that 60 schools work in one shift, that's about 40% of children. You mentioned certain amounts related to this project as well. How much money does the ministry ultimately plan to spend to make the volume of all this what.../incomprehensible/... and to start all schools.../incomprehensible/... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96742	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96743	Yes, thank you very much, Your Honor. So, as far as the National Recovery Plan and Resilience Plan is concerned, there's only 40% of students working in one.../incomprehensible/... today, 60% working on one shift, but it only includes 40% of students. Within the NPO, 2 billion 280 million kunas are foreseen. We expect a public call no later than summer, with these funds not enough for the whole of Croatia to be on one shift. We also program it from other sources. It means from the following financial envelopes within the PKK as well as ITP and some other sources. What we expect, we expect it to be one of our main reforms and what will be our priority, so we will provide the necessary funds accordingly to make it within this decade, and I would say as soon as possible by '27. And '28. all schools in Croatia worked in one shift.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96744	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96745	First of all, in the light of this law, we find out that we can't really influence anything and therefore we are expected to discuss this proposal and accept it in a single reading, so if we don't really have a debate when our proposals here can't be respected in view of what you call the nature of the international treaty itself and at this stage we cannot change the text itself. Secondly, you said the evaluation was carried out by the National Centre for External Evaluation, but recent legal changes put it under the ministry so that it turns out that the ministry will control itself. And thirdly, what I'm most interested in is in general the material preconditions that as many schools outside these 50-ac be included in this programme of full-time education. So, can you be a little more specific given the large number of schools that have no conditions for one-way classes over the next two years, let's say how many schools do you think switch to one-way teaching compared to the current number. [[Intruder: Your Honored Secretary of State.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96746	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96747	Yes, thank you very much, so I explained in the introduction that it was the World Bank's usual practice on the board. The document is published on their pages, it's their document. As far as the very details of the reform are concerned, if we've been following what I've said, they're just being conjectured. So there's going to be a lot more details. Not only are they conceived, but some fine tuning will also be done during the piloting and see what possible weaknesses are. The National Centre is an independent agency and it is not under the control of the ministry, it has never been. As far as deadlines are concerned, so we've taken the obligation within the NPO to raise the current coverage of children with 40% one-way education to 70% with 2 billion kuna. So that's what I'm convinced I'm going to do for sure. The deadline for this is June '26. They're parallel insurance, so it's not very far, it's all going to happen soon. Especially if we consider How much is it, how much is it? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It was supposed to be a year before anything was done. [[Thank you very much, Secretary of State.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96748	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96749	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. So we see that this project is being allocated to 50 schools, so on. Demonstrative schools and says the choice will be made through a public call. You have already noted that there will be schools that already work in one shift, have certain infrastructure and preconditions. I wonder which, if you can get a little closer, by which criteria will these demonstration schools be chosen and by what criteria will those little gifts be awarded? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96750	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96751	Thank you very much. So at this point, the criteria aren't defined. I only initially said what would be the necessary prerequisite, the necessary prerequisite we assume when it was conceived public call would be that this school wanted to apply, that it wanted to work in such a new environment, that it wanted to work in a new model, that it had the consent of the school board, that it had the consent of the founders means county or city or council of parents. There's going to be a lot of changes, so they'll all be very happy to accept it as a great interest. Teached by some previous experiences, interest has never been so dramatic. This model of pairing good and slightly weaker results is a project that is very interesting and we want to actually implement it as a pilot if it shows good results, we expect it in the future. At this point, there are no criteria. We just need to define the model to the end. This is what this World Bank loan and the engagement of individual students will help us to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96752	Thank you. Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96753	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Secretary of State. As we have had the opportunity to hear and read it here is about a 25m-euro loan contract and as you have pointed out yourself, it is not the only means, therefore for reform processes, there are also funds from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, certainly a multi-annual national framework, etc. However, I will return to this, so the project entitled Croatia meets sustainable, fair and effective education. And so, it really is a multi-annual reform process that I would say is actually going in two directions, primarily to achieve effective results for all students through, on the one hand, to enable success for all, on the other hand, to enable material conditions. So, day-to-day classes, etc. And another important thing about empowering teachers and divinity of teaching interests through attractiveness, better paying teachers. My question is, what is the average teacher's salary right now? What do we want to achieve, and when will we do so? [[Intruder Reiner: Your Honored Secretary of State.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96754	You've exceeded your time, please let's stick to the time. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96755	Thank you very much. Here, I'll try it briefly. So, like you said, aside from the better results of our children, what we expect and that the teaching profession becomes attractive on a long period of time. Several of the measures we plan to achieve from the ISF plus the next financial period are in the plan of a special scholarship in a reputable form for deficiting teaching professions. We already had a chance to discuss this in order to make the teaching profession as attractive as possible, and thus solve what is very difficult for all of us together, which is the fact that we have a whole series of deficit staff not only in rural areas, but also in urban areas, in large cities, and even in the city of Zagreb. And in this way we want to achieve the teaching colleges of mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology and language to ensure sufficient capacity on a long time. It won't solve the problem completely, so one part we'll do it through these generous scholarships, and another time it's exactly how to raise wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96756	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96757	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, the project Croatia met with sustainable fair and effective education. You know and we'll probably agree that and efficiency, and everything else actually stems from those who carry a certain process. That's even more pronounced if we're talking about something that's living tissue, a living organism, which the school certainly is. Now, what I'm interested in is based on or on which you base the effectiveness of this project if we start from the status of those who should be the bearers of the efficiency of this system. I will only mention that people who have high professional equipment in the Republic of Croatia, so in suma sumarum teachers are located in the last place at the height of their salaries. Their average salary is far, far less than certain minimum salaries in the Member States.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96758	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96759	I didn't get the question, but I'll try. I see it's employee status. Well, we've already said a few things about it, and the fact is that the average salaries in the Republic of Croatia have increased significantly in this last period, so I'm going to give the information that in the last five years the average teacher's salary has only been raised by 23.5%. In secondary schools too, so these salaries are net now, but the average teacher's salary in primary school is 8300 kuna and in secondary schools 8500 kuna. Our goal, of course, is to make these wages bigger, to be more betrayed. It's hard to do parallels with those big economies and their strength. What we do to make it as possible now is, of course, the negotiations with the basic collective agreement. There's talk of how to deal with it now, especially with this inflationary pressure that's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96760	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96761	Dear Secretary, last year when we discussed the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, we did not have the opportunity to discuss the amounts intended for certain activities, nor for certain subactivitys because there was simply no such data. We just got a copy from the NPO. I'd like to ask you for information to tell us at which point you realized that you were missing five percent of the funds you allocated to the NPO. These 25m euros are five percent of the funds you planned there at the NPO. If we're only looking at what you've set aside for primary and secondary schools. If we're looking at the total amount, that's two and a half percent. At any point, was that before the NPO, was that after and why it happened?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96762	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96763	Thank you very much. So the first talks when they started with the bank a few years ago were planned to be a much more generous loan, then 200m euros were spoken about, but this is a loan, these Croatian taxpayers have to pay back. When we came to the situation that within the NPO we had provided a grant of 2 billion 280 million kuna for the infrastructure adjustment of one school, then the need to borrow such large infrastructure adjustments ceased, so we focused on what is our priority and why cooperation with the bank is important to us. It is important to us because the bank has been bringing in its experts for several years, for exchanging experiences, different models, bone models that have actually served us very much in negotiations with the European Commission for NGOs, so this is not about 5% of the resources needed, but about a project task needed to define a model in order to use the support to help these schools. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96764	Dear representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96765	Thank you, dear Vice President. So I'm glad that you said that this is just the means to create some kind of project task because some kind of background was made by the World Bank and, in its basis, the World Bank says that the assessment of the funds for what we have committed in the National Development Strategy, and let's be honest, this is done in order to achieve the objectives of the National Development Strategy that an assessment of the resources for infrastructure investment is needed in the amount of 600m euros, and an annual increase in the funding of education from the state budget is needed at 150m euros. I am particularly concerned about this part of the increase in funding from the state budget because you know it is one to build a physical infrastructure, but there are costs that cannot be allowed by the European Commission to co-finance from eu funds and I am interested in whether we will have so-called budget. Soft teacher infrastructure, auxiliary technical staff, material costs all that goes with this upgrade and reconstruction of schools?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96766	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96767	Yeah, I was involved in creating that whole document, the bank wasn't working alone, she was using all our information and data and the bank created one model that has multiple scenarios. These scenarios depend on different input parameters to be accessed and how infrastructure construction will be accessed. I'll give you one piece of information, for example, today's schools or classrooms are designed for 30 students, our rulebook says it's maximum in class section 28. We have the middle of some small rural areas where there have never been more than 10 students in the last 30 years, so the question is whether a 60-square classroom should be designed there. We have engaged the Faculty of Architecture of Zagreb who says that European practice is not, then there is a little less classroom and now they are preparing and revising such normatives of such issues there is a lot and we will agree to it all before we start with the call.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96768	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96769	My dear secretary. I'd just like to start by telling the difference between schools and one shift from those with the whole day's stay, is not the same shift and the whole day's stay. So these are the means to implement a pilot program to introduce a full-time course or a full-time stay in schools. You said that 50 schools in that pilot program, but since there are no criteria it can happen to be and I don't know 40 schools, and there may be 70 of them depending on what I don't know about so far, I don't know about the criteria you're just going to form and how you're going to even form that list of schools that are going to enter this project. And I'm still curious, we have a lot of schools in three shifts, it's here only 3% at Croatia level, but I say here and Split until recently was the worst city in the country by that, he had seven schools in the state four were in the City of Split, now there are only two It's about the two of you moving. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] So, are they going to be...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96770	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96771	Thank you. I didn't hear you last.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96772	Will those schools be three shifts, too?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96773	Irrelevantly, he can't communicate like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96774	Yeah, yeah, of course, so schools with three shifts are the biggest problem. What you've pointed out very well, which is that a school in one shift doesn't mean the same school that works in a day-long classroom or a day-long school it's the same termologically and we'll see how it ends in the end. But the whole day's teaching basically means that children stay up to 15 o'clock at school, that's the mandatory part. Also that there is a university part of 15-17 that they can or must attend that university section would be related to extra curriculative activities are most often languages, sports, art of different contents, that's something we plan to do. It can work as a teacher and it does not have to, if it will work it will be extra paid, but it is now a model in which we are at some final stage, we are now at 90% by summer you will be familiar with all together and the entire Croatian public with the details of that whole model. And then it depends on it. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96775	The esteemed representative of Glamuzina. ... Cut things short. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96776	I can't cut these things short. They're too important.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96777	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96778	.../Conversation included later./... ie. In addition, two contracts indicate that this operational manual includes a detailed description of the project activities of institutional arrangements, a detailed description of the criteria for prioritising the acceptability of activities, accounting, audit, reporting, finance, procurement, etc. So it's a document that contains all the details that we should be able to discuss here. It is also a document under the addendum of a contract that is necessary and necessary for the bank to satisfy the bank in order for this contract to come into effect at all. By 16.3., today is the 10th, your colleague on the board said yesterday that it would take you another ten days to complete the document. Please explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96779	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96780	Yeah, well, as I'm operationally involved, maybe my colleague was missing for a few days, but the fact is that as I already said POM or.../The speaker speaks English./... is a document that agrees with the bank and it is a condition of that effectiveness and until the day of effectiveness must agree. So it was never common in practice for all loans in the Republic of the World Bank that were that the document was in the assembly and then it's not possible in this situation either, so that document has a draft. I read all these components from that draft today. He's, of course, something more detailed. There is no answer to all these questions about what that day will look like, what classes will change, what the structure of that day will look like, what it will look like from the student's view or what it will look like from the teacher's view. You will know all this by summer and then we will publicly announce it to everyone and communicate with social partners, political interest groups, Croatian public. Explain why we are going into this together and what changes it will make.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96781	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96782	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here is actually the mention of this work in one shift and a full-time stay and learning. In fact, the assumption is that it is in one shift that children would then have the opportunity to stay and learn all day long. What I am interested in here is when you spoke about the schedule and these components contained in these EUR 25 million most of the waste on infrastructure investment, so EUR 15.7 million. Whether schools have enough time to prepare and need certain projects to do so, so whether you have predicted how long it will take for the preparation to be done as soon as possible and as best as possible to absorb the total funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96783	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96784	Yeah, thank you very much, so this isn't about building, building schools, so these are schools that work on one shift, it's just about any additional changes. For example, if the kitchen is 50 years old and is not conditional and is actually slowing processes, the kitchen will be renewed. If the dining room space is too small or so far, too few children have used school food, and now they will use everyone under the new model, everyone will be able to have lunch at school, which makes sense if they stay at school for up to 15 hours, or with the possibility of staying up to 17 hours, for such adjustments. If they are poorly equipped or insufficiently equipped cabinets such as natural science, or if they need to renew school furniture for such groups, these funds will be used. The NPO funds are for infrastructure adjustments for schools that work in two shifts, but we do not plan on having a building permit available there, but it is important for them to start having a fixed location, meaning land or contract on building rights or a spatial plan that allows it to be resolved. We have plenty of time to use those funds. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96785	Thank you. Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96786	Thank you. Here's what I'm going to do with the previous question. It seems to me that these EUR 15.7 million and too little of this total envelope of 25 for the upgrade of these infrastructure existing solutions. So I'm wondering if there's anything in the plan that we can do about it. It seems to me that the remaining EUR 10 million is too much for modeling, for making rules, for making standards. Can we, with existing scientific and professional capacities, make these models, make a presentation of the best solutions, and most of this envelope, direct from this loan to what will be visible in infrastructure? And second question, I really think that improving education starts with respect for teachers and better valorising their work, higher wages, when and what is meant to be done about it? The raises you specified I don't think they're enough. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96787	Thank you, thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96788	Yes, well, your observation is in place. However, here I will refer to one of my colleagues, a friend of the PMF, a professor who says only if we make concrete and build buildings we haven't done anything. So all of these soft activities, monitoring, evaluation, mentoring, fine tuning that we are going to do as a result of the project, reviewing and defining new standards, new regulations, research that are the best European solutions to demand and additional costs. Unfortunately, I've never met anyone before who, who wants to do this to us pro bono and, as a rule, everything we ask for and from our academic community, and we've got to order bigger, we have to conduct the procurement process and pay. So in a year's preparation of this spender that is consistent with colleagues from the World Bank is a defined structure as it looks, and that measures are being taken to solve and prepare all these soft activities that will be very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96789	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96790	Thank you. I'd like you to explain to me what you meant when you said it was the World Bank's usual practice. I'm not sure if I realized correctly that you answered the question of one reading with that answer, so if you can explain it to me what common practice means and why it would be done this way. Other restrictions, the restrictions of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, mean in the loan. You mentioned we couldn't use the money for anything, so we can't build new buildings. What exactly were the restrictions? I'd say that you're wrong about wages, but I'm not going to spread the debate, so they've grown up, you haven't mentioned under what circumstances, and as they've grown, I'm just going to give for the comparison that 40% of the salary is lower than the Slovenian salary is the best comparison. And study hours, so if study hours are the goal of increasing the clock Have you thought... [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96791	Thank you, thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96792	Yeah, well, I'm going to refer to this last one, which is the most important thing of all you've said. So the fact is that the Croatian public is not familiar with this and when I talk to my friends, acquaintances, and by following and education from my daughters who are students today, we all think that our children are overloaded and have too many classes. It is the name that rules the Croatian public. However, the facts are just the opposite, Croatian children in primary school have a convincing minimum hours of compulsory teaching. And we are dealing with this reform that will continue for many years and will not be completed until the term of this government and will be resolved in the next term, adjustments will be made, best solutions will be sought. We want to solve this problem. And it's obvious, here's Professor. Bakic will know best how many hours of learning these will be the results. So we're going to have to change some basic settings of our system, design it differently, understand, evaluate and see what effects we produce with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96793	Thank you. Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96794	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, here is thanks to the enthusiasm of our educators at the work of our students we achieve excellent results, and besides, we are also the product that we are here in the educational, educational system. So I support this contract and all those contracts relating to investment in the education and education system. My two issues are concrete, now that our students are truly double-loaded to EU students for 1890 hours compared to 4060 hours, how are we going to bridge this, or will our professors be burdened? And the second question is, do you have one building, a fragrant building that has 12, 24 departments, and there are 12 perpetrators, can there be that much work on that existing building, or does there have to be an allocation, so a new school is made elsewhere?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96795	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96796	Yeah, it's hard to answer such complex questions in a short time, but I'll try. This comparison of 1800 and 4060 is not as simple as our cycles, the first cycle in all years does not last the same, but we take care of it and calculate and we will partially compensate for it. Through the biggest changes will be precisely in our first cycle, meaning class classes and slightly less demanding and more inclusive in the second cycle, with the fact that, in addition to increasing the Captain of certain items and introducing some new items, we are taking care of how it affects the results of those who need the help most. Our biggest problem is children in the last three children, or children, who come from socio-economically endangered families and who are the biggest support. So this existing concept system of supplemental, additional and extracurricular activities will significantly improve and change, but here you are patient for details by summer. As far as this issue of infrastructure adjustment is concerned, it is difficult to answer, but by summer we will send the whole model to all founders, we already have it developed and help them see what they may not see at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96797	Thank you. Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96798	Dear Secretary of State, here I would like to mention that a few years ago, here I have a personal experience precisely with the funds of the World Bank during Minister Primorac we built a certain number of schools not only in my Split-Dalmatia County but also in the entire Republic of Croatia, so that schools worked at that time and today working on one shift, so here I believe that there is a link between these funds that I mention and those that will now be contractually realised and realized, and in my opinion it is one good foundation, and on the other hand I would have asked a question, I have some information, I don't know how true it is, that somewhere around 3 hundred we have what high school, which is basic schools, which sports halls with building permits, some of which are already 2-3.g. and do they, if that number is correct, now require a change in normability and certain re-purposes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96799	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96800	So here's the last thing that's gonna happen, there's gonna be some changes. I mean this is a classic eu call, when we start with these 2 billion and 280 calls will define the conditions and acceptability of financing operations. If there's an old building permit somewhere that's 10-15 years old, and unfortunately there's a number of children down by 20-30%, that's what we need to take care of. Not only will we take care of it, but we will take care of the neighboring schools, as they are filled, we will take care of demographic movements. Unfortunately, the projections tell us that by 2030, a generation of traps will be under 32,000 and we need to appreciate all of this together in order to spend these funds more effectively and really translate the entire Croatia into one shift over the next few years. I expect until '27-'8, but here's what's going to depend on the founder's capacities, as well as on these other additional resources. In addition, perhaps what I didn't say today is we plan to support and for these existing schools that work in one shift the focus on them will be from the next financial envelope of the PKK '21-'27.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96801	Thank you. Dear representative Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96802	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, here you have also stated at the beginning that the aim of this project is to improve the learning environment in 50 demonstration schools, whether higher student competences are expected in the day-long stay, as well as better learning outcomes and better predisposition in enrolment in high school, and will this project allow parents to compete more in the labour market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96803	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96804	Thank you very much. Well, yeah, just like you said, that, that, that's, that's the idea of leading this whole project. In principle, we expect that those in need of help, who today cannot ensure I say especially children who come and students from socio-economically threatened families and cannot pay their parents for instructions, can perhaps not even help them alone in their educational process that their support and support, as well as for those who can be more gifted to be stronger and greater than it is today. We will also contribute to higher results, and then, of course, it is cascade related to all these other activities that you have counted will, of course, affect better results and these are our expectations. The National Centre for External Evaluation will carry out the evaluation, so we will see what the effects are if, if we increase the basic literacy of the captain, if we change the concept of supplementary and additional teaching, if we give the children additional content, if we will finance from the ISF what will be above 15 extra curricula activities that are once again related to the curricula, so I think that logically expecting better results is significantly better.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96805	Thank you very much. Here you can state secretaries in place, and I will open the debate and the first on behalf of the Club of Representatives Mosta will speak to the esteemed representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96806	It is hard to say, indeed, that we are starting a debate when we are already being explained in the introduction that I am going to repeat that this law only confirms the loan agreement, however, given the fact that changes or additions to the text of the international treaty cannot be made, it is proposed that this bill be discussed and accepted in a single reading. Let's translate this for those who listen to the debate and are not referred to matter, which means that we here are going to talk, but we can't in any way contribute to legal changes or make any suggestions that could be constructive, which at this stage would be appreciated. So we're having an argument, and we don't. The second thing I want to point out is that here it is said that the evaluation will be carried out by the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, which is also its function as an independent institution. However, given the current practice of the ministry where more and more independent institutions such as the Croatian Science Foundation are subject to the relevant Ministry of Education, it is important to point out that in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Centre for External Education last year, the Ministry of Education came to the place of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the centre lost its independence and its work is exclusively supervised by the Ministry of Science and Education. When we talk about such serious and important projects for which big money will be allocated, it is important that we have an impartial and critical evaluation. However, the legislative changes which probably did not accidentally precede this, and concerning the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education, made it impossible for an independent and impartial evaluation not only of this but of all future ancestors, so the question arises is this evaluation, as was the case in earlier times with a school for life only a flossula, which tries to explain to the Croatian public that it will exercise some kind of control over the project and also of the money that will be used for it, and we know how in the Republic, given who is in power so far ended. And what we're most interested in, what I'm going to look at here a little bit more detail because the only topic we're worth discussing since we can't affect these legislative changes is the issue of full-time education. The first thing that is important here is that it is about staying in schools from 8 to 17 hours, and regular teaching would take up to 15 hours, and then activities would be maintained until 17 hours. That's how it's so far along with what we could read plan. However, only single - shift schools can apply to the project at all. And here, I will list here the data from 2016 to 2017, and as far as we could hear from the debate, it is also the current data where we see how far we have progressed so far in having less school in two shifts, and we have some schools left in three shifts, which is really devastating. The data from 2016 to 2017 are 11 primary schools in 3 shifts of which there are as many as 9 in Split. Perhaps my colleague Puljak will know more about it, but it is something that is certainly not acceptable practice. 612 primary schools have a morning shift alone, and 513 in the morning and afternoon according to these data that came from the Ministry of Science and Education. So the question is, how do we start this project? To whom he will be able to benefit in the long term or if we are going to put ourselves into a situation, given that those schools that have one-way classes are very often schools that are better equipped and have better material conditions, since the one-way course itself is, of course, a great advantage for students. Are we going to put ourselves in a position to improve at least in the first round of standards already good schools, instead of doing what is the basic intensity of full-time teaching, which is to enable children who do not have satisfactory physical working conditions in their homes, nor adequate help, whether they are worse social status, whether they are having difficulty monitoring classes, to provide them with the conditions to compensate for that teaching and all that they come from within the school, so that they do not lag behind. It also enables gifted students to be given more attention so that they can develop their talents. Now, are we really going to allow them, as far as this first part of the social standard is concerned, and the students who are in an unspeakable position in terms of follow-up classes, to give them early full-time classes so that they can get involved as quickly as possible in the process, because we will fix schools where most of them are better standards, and that is an open question. What's the second question when we talk about staying all day at school is infrastructure standard schools. And here we are in serious trouble. When it came to the introduction of disinfectants and various other measures in the context of the Covid-19 crisis, the problem that has not been solved so far was once again on the surface, which is that many schools do not have soap or toilet paper. I will not mention how difficult it is for girls who go to schools or girls, especially those who have menstruation and who are unable to meet basic hygiene needs in school toilets. And of course the difficulty is serious about hygiene and for all the other students. So we don't have basic hygiene standards in schools, and here we're talking about extending the time that children are going to spend in these schools. What will happen to the role and burden of employees in schools that will change greatly here. Their burdens will change that should be adequately paid, but they will also have to change the overall circumstances of their work and the question is whether we currently have enough resources for such a thing even in terms of those who should do this job and whether we will equip them. Different state pedagogical standards since 2008 and further promises were made from swimming pools, to not knowing what, and we see how much in practice that has come to life. It's alive so much, it doesn't even have soap. So we release what's listed as some projections, we make concrete suggestions and exact plans here. When I ask how many schools I'm interested in how many schools a year so let's see if we can track something. And when we say that something is going to happen like we said here in 4, 5, 6 years without an unequivocal annual paragraph, it can never be and never be. Who's going to remember that year what really happened? Another thing that is particularly important in the context of how many schools are ready to talk about this is the material conditions in schools in terms of student nutrition. So now you will increase student dependence on nutrition within schools. I want to point out here that many parents come to me concerned about the diet of students in schools. There is something called the recommendations of the Croatian Institute of Public Health on food that should rarely be consumed or not consumed at all in schools. What's interesting is that this is exactly the kind of food you don't need to consume in schools most of the time you find in most of the school menus that are publicly available on the school's website. So I'll give you some examples. Here is one week of school in Zagreb, so I'm talking about a school in the capital, which has appropriate material resources and which is more under public attention. We can say no to any school, not to appoint now. Monday's bread with linolade, Tuesday's corn clip, Wednesday's roache in a leaf, Thursday's a student's sandwich, and Friday's a pâtéta. Do you really want me to read to you what the recommendation of the Croatian Institute of Public Health looks like, because it is clear to all of us that there is neither pasture nor cartilage nor linolada. Well, that's what our kids eat every day in schools, and we're talking about a full-time follow-up here and that now all of them, if they agree to that class, will depend on such a diet. We know how much of a problem we have with obesity, we know what our nation's health is, and we haven't solved the basic problems and we've been ignoring them for years, and even the recommendations of the Department of Public Health on Food, and now we're talking about a full-time follow-up. Of course I'm in favor of day-to-day teaching. An alarming fact is that a large percentage of parents pay additional instructions so that children can follow the curriculum and programme at all. Particular attention should be paid to gifted students, and within the course of the day-to-day teaching to provide conditions for further development of their capacities and greater intellectual engagement. The European Commission's strategic framework for education strongly stresses the inevitable need to increase the quality of education through reduction of classrooms, implementation of problem-oriented teaching, implementation of additional new programmes, etc. Everything is only possible within the course of the day. We strongly advocate it, but the basic material conditions in schools need to be resolved first and that schools can access the day-to-day follow-up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96807	Thank you. On behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, a respected representative of Katica Glamuzina will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96808	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. If it's necessary to invest in our country, it's an education. We're so far out of bounds that some of us new ones are probably our only salvation. Investing in education means investing in the future, and it's good that as a country, we have such goals. Croatia is a small country and in many spheres is very dependent on others. The manufacturing and agricultural industries are on our knees and we must import very much, while our exports are practically negligible. For decades we have been dangerously dependent on the results of the tourist season, and regardless of any planned, systematic and sustainable approach to tourism we do not have. Prime Ministers and government members end up in prison, the country's government has a party convicted of corruption, and the last census suggests we're also a demographic failure. All of this makes one very dreary picture of Croatia quite the opposite of the one once long ago wished by another prime minister, who looks at himself in the smile on the face of a child. In the Social Democrats Club, we firmly believe that only by investing in future generations can we provide a better future for this country. By investing in future generations that will not be burdened by the past, by wars, by stories of Ustashas and Partisans, and similar to generations that will be strengthened by the quality of their education should lead our country into a better future. It's up to us to provide them with the best education we can and then let them do the best they can, because the way we're working right now didn't turn out to be very good, though. But well, we recognized the problem, dragged it through key documents like the National Development Strategy, the National Resistance and Recovery Plan, and then our government recognized the problem and considered education, science and research as key and extremely important in the NPO for that category singled out as much as 16% of the funds, 16%, 16. These 16% should cover projects from preschool education to higher education. Of course, serious reform cannot be made, so it is no wonder that we had to reach out for loans to finance some real changes. And this loan that we are discussing today is not enough again for full reform, because it refers only to part of the education process. She signed the Government with the European Commission less than a month ago and an operational agreement for the implementation of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which states that by the end of the second quarter of 2026, we have 70% of primary school students in one shift all-day follow-up, so in about 4 years. And regardless of what we heard today, 40% of students are already covered by one shift course, I think it's an ambitious goal and I sincerely hope it's feasible, but the Empirical view of the government that in more than two years has failed to start a renovation is difficult to expect to start a school reconstruction. But, well, the plans are written, the goals are set, the decision is to make this loan the schools are infrastructured for one shift course all day. Although with 20,000 euros per one of these pilot schools, I honestly don't know what can be done except for the project documentation, because the contract clearly states that out of these 25 million one is intended for these school pilots, and no more than 20,000 euros per school. But they might surprise us. What? But they might surprise us. However, if we had an operational project plan, which also states in the contract, that it is necessary before the contract enters into force, we may have answers to a number of questions, but the contract should take effect within 5 days, and the operational plan that should be its integral part still has no insight on us and there is no way to find out exactly what is in it except the words that the Secretary of State has spoken to us. In addition to infrastructure solutions for such changes, staff and software solutions are needed, and here we are the thintest. It is devastating to know that civic education is not a mandatory subject, but rather since the first grade of primary school. It is devastating to know that in the 21st century IT is not a mandatory subject but rather a first-class primary school. It is devastating to know that children with developmental difficulties do not have enough assistants, and that most of those who work as assistants continue to be treated almost and exclusively as educational assistants and not as educational assistants. It is also devastating to know how few are paid and what working conditions they have. It is devastating to know that gifted children are also not recognized as children with special needs and that, regardless of the national development strategy as one of the priorities of education, I quote, insurance of early recognition and support in the education and education of gifted children and students, regardless of which, neither the programme, nor enough professional staff for gifted children are in sight. It is additionally devastating to know that the quality of education is not uniform throughout Croatia, that it is not standardised, so there are great differences in what peers get depending on where they live. I very much hope that they will make sure that this project does not bypass schools in smaller areas, in Dalmatia, on islands until the end of the reforms. I know a five-year-old named Noah who's an extremely gifted kid in a high school, but there's no teacher at his school to take him to a math competition. I know a fellow Tina who has managed to develop his proclivity to robotics thanks to the dedication of his parents because there is no information at his school for his age, let alone robotics. I know two girls, Marina and Carmen, who have been in front of their peers for years in art, but their schools don't have any additional programs for visualally talented children, so parents have to take them to private workshops. In short, we mold children into the system instead of adapting the system to them. I also know one Nives, a mentor in primary school education, and thanks to her commitment to her call and thanks to her extraordinary efforts, gifted children at her school still receive adequate education, but one is Nives, and children and schools are many. Another knowledge is defeating, which is that bigger salaries in our country, as well as many others, have politicians than teachers, and I say that as a politician, daughter of a math teacher in elementary school. I know firsthand because I've watched it almost my whole life when an educator is committed to his calling and occupation, and I know exactly how underpaid they are for everything they do and what they're expected to do. On their backs lies the responsibility to educate and raise the future of this country, such a great responsibility, and so little valorized. We are a small and wounded country and with most EU countries, we cannot measure ourselves in many ways, except as we often like to repeat in the quality of the sea and the amount of the sun, and for example in sports successes. We're great here and we know it, but we can't figure out that we have potential in education and science, that our children can grow up to be moral and responsible citizens who won't discriminate and who can help the weaker and who can appreciate everyone's different speciality rather than condemning differences. We could raise awareness of this in our children if we just gave them, for example, civic education. We must learn to cherish and value except the sun and the sea and all the potential that lies within our children. And then when it becomes clear to us and we realize that it is equally important that our Croatian team wins the medal at the mathematical Olympics, as we care whether the medal will be won by football players, then we will be a country that is aware of where it is and where it wants to be and who knows how to get there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96809	You, too. Mr. Damir Bakic will represent the views of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96810	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State, good evening, all or good afternoon. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 2nd of the contract, paragraph 2.05 states that the interest rate has been I think when the price of money is so defined that the exact percentage of the interest margin should be written somewhere that we know how much this loan costs. In this regard, I will also point out that, it seems to be too high a fee of 0.25% a year on undrawn funds, so it would be good to know what is the usual fee in loans of this kind and for this purpose. Now let's go to the contents. In the opening part, then, in the description of the objective that the law seeks to achieve is said the World Bank loan for the project “Croatian Meeting of Sustainable, Fair and Effective Education” of 25m euros intended to create a full-day teaching model based on best European practices, its experimental implementation in 50 schools, etc., etc. Here are concrete remarks, first of all in Appendix one, in Part One, in point 1.c. It mentions the design and establishment of a mentoring programme among schools where the directors of less successful demonstration schools located in very poor areas pair with the directors of the most successful schools. Why? Why is it automatically implied that less successful demonstration schools will be those in very poor areas? Why do you say that here, then? And by the way, and perhaps more importantly why the principals pair up, not the school. In addition, one part of the three points listed technical assistance for the development of educational reforms beyond the full-day course, which seeks to restructure the model of funding for higher education and improve the digital competences of professors. Is it just now that we are starting to design with this loan, and I am stressing that I am designing at least part of the restructuring of the higher education funding model. It seems to me that this more stands here as an attempt to list as much activity as possible in empowering the ministry than is the specific link of the above mentioned, the essential link to this project. In Appendix 2 to point A1, the project director shall be mentioned as a person at the head of the working group. His responsibilities are as large as described, but it is unclear how the director is elected. In addition, how the task force is established, how it is elected, how it is established if it is already. Similarly, in Appendix 2 in Part (b) is described so-called ‘. ... A colleague of Glamuza's operating manual of the project spoke about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is the handbook of the borrower, which is said to be, the ministry has created the bank in an acceptable way, has not quite worked out, but will only make as much as we hear and which provides guidance for the implementation of the project. In point 3a. It is said that this operational manual must not be assigned, modified, abolished or excluded, etc. It's not clear what that manual means is not to be assigned, but it's really not clear. And the propos is not even clear how this manual will begin. As my colleague Selak Rasdic has already mentioned, and we cannot discuss the contract. You said the same secretary of state that, of course, it's not the custom that the accompanying documents here in the House are out of sight, and now it's really not clear what they're going to write in that manual, what criteria they're going to put in place, what schools they're going to be, what way they're going to be chosen, we don't really know any of that. I think we should know. It's about big money and a very ambitious project, in something that's definitely a national interest. Here are some concrete remarks. In the end, two principled ones. First, this project should certainly be welcomed at the principle level by its meaning, i.e. the aim without delay. So, crossing all our schools to one shift course and enabling day-to-day work is something we've always advocated. And I think there's a consensus between us about it, and we've been saying that for a long time. It is now an opportunity to combine the funds of this loan and the resources of the National Recovery and Resistance Programme towards the realization of this objective. However, the real question is how successful we will be, how truly ready we are to implement this project, how committed we are to the goal of having this project carried out in 50 selected schools really be the foundation and guidance for further. Because we have too many bad experiences and too many bad examples on that plan. Too many times so far and in education we have not been able to cultivate and cultivate this gentle reform plant that is planted with other people's reform money. The real question, then, is whether we will know further and what we will do to prepare for further knowledge. I will point out as the freshest example of a project to introduce a network of assistants in the teaching process. This is a project that we launched in 2014 with the European Social Fund. Today he's running out. Continuing assistants have in the meantime become an important factor in our schools, and the system? How much did we build the system and enable it to continue functioning? I would say little or no, because neither today nor today, today in March, we don't know how, with what money, how much money, if we even fund the assistants in the class in the next school year. The Ministry would therefore think we must, and not just the Bank, submit reports on the implementation of this project, on how much we do or will work each year towards raising our own capacities to continue in this direction. And at the very end like... I'm gonna say this, and every time I say this, this is a great project, and I need to wish him the best. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're raising a 200 million kuna loan almost to improve the system. However, we do not do anything or almost nothing to ensure the basic assumptions of the system, which are people. It's a waste of all of our shift schools if they don't have anyone working in them. The alarming lack of qualified teachers in mathematics and science, especially in mathematics and even more alarming trends, we have already warned many times, encouraged data, analysis, pointed to movements at universities that deepen the problem, held a thematic session of the Education Committee dedicated to that, proposed conclusions and measures all in vain. We don't see a single concrete step, not a single action, not even a plan. We hear announcements, we hear good will, but we don't see any of the slightest steps in that direction. So I'm not talking in general about the material and general position of teachers in society, I'm talking specifically about the problem of solving the lack of teachers' deficits in specific interests, especially in disciplines especially in science and mathematics. And believe me, I'm not talking in favor of my profession, I'm not talking about the dormitory, colleagues and colleagues, no matter where you come from, ask in your community, ask in your schools how we stand with math classes and until we solve or at least start solving this fundamental problem that I think is bigger and more important than everyone else, the problem of lack of teachers, until then we can't have full enthusiasm for the other steps that we do, even though they like this and have been forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96811	Thank you, too. Mrs. Sanja Radolovic will speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96812	Thank you, dear Vice President. We've already had many times to hear here today what you're doing, so nomotechnically, actually, to give the law immediately to tomorrow's vote in the first reading. I'd like you to answer what you've actually been doing since 16 December 2021. Since the contract was signed then and you knew by then because it stands in this draft that the contract should be entered after 90 days and 16.3. so I understand why you are in such a hurry and why you will not respect some practice that the law goes into effect on the eighth day of the day of publication in the NN, you are already asking to enter the first day. And of course, what we absolutely do not accept is that the law goes immediately in the first reading. Furthermore, I have a few more questions for you, namely the local leaders and mayors, in particular, have complained that they are actually saying that they will be financed by NGOs and this part of the World Bank to be said that projects to build reconstruction schools, halls, dining rooms, libraries should be financed in a 100% amount, but of course as always in our Croatian model there is a catch. They say they will receive 1,200 euros per square while some medium price of reconstruction is an arithmetical average of 2,000 euros, which would specifically mean that they lack 800 euros per square square, and in fact they will not co-finance the reconstruction of the construction at 100%, but 60%, so I wonder if it is true and who should co-finance, whether the city budgets make that difference as well. Furthermore, what is visible and from the actually never formally adopted strategic framework for full-time teaching dating back to 2020. is the fact that when we talk about school infrastructure in Croatia, 1102 classrooms are currently missing. Due to the lack of classrooms in Croatia, 57% of primary school students go on two shifts, 3% go on three shifts, while 40% of students attend school in one shift. For the sake of comparison, shift classes can only be found in several eastern EU countries such as Romania, Poland and Bulgaria that have two shifts and not even three shifts. Except for the high-quality teaching classrooms and the fully developed system of education, of course it is necessary to ensure the possibility of preparing the meals themselves inside or near the school because we saw today, as colleague Selak Raspoudić spoke and indeed stated on practical examples what we can say to the embarrassing menus are fed to children in our schools. In addition to the classroom, the dining room that is missing from our schools is the school halls and school books. Data from primary schools shows that the condition is not so bad in parent schools themselves. Namely, those schools in which both administration and administration are located and represented classes from 1st to 8th are significantly advantageous with respect to district schools in terms of equipment and classrooms and halls and libraries and dining rooms. So in Croatia, 86% of home schools have kitchens, 72% of schools have dining rooms, 78% of schools have a gym, while 97% of schools have a library. Although this looks like some kind of good condition in the percent, the situation is that we in Croatia have very many regional schools that have very few students and we can say that there is a catastrophic situation in these statistics. Namely, in district schools that provide and exist at least one grade department from 1st to 4th has a kitchen, 24% has a dining room, only 9% has a gym and 10% has a library. From that data, I think it's very clear that there are great spatial constraints and we actually have unequal criteria for the development of children in our country. Also in the programming period 2014-2020 from the Euro Funds, investments were made in kindergartens through the Rural Development Programme, although today I also said that unfortunately it was only the physical infrastructure, not that soft infrastructure that we say from the educator, auxiliary technical staff, but I am sorry that our ministry and all other actors in this system have missed the opportunity to focus and invest infrastructure in primary and secondary schools and what we are doing now. I hope that it will not repeat the system as it happens with the early preschool and education system and that it will not forget that the reconstruction is not just buildings, that the restoration is not just physical infrastructure and that someone in these buildings should work, someone in these buildings needs to teach our children, someone needs to cook meals, someone needs to lead them to physical education, all of this can be financed from the European Social Fund because these are allowed investments. Of course, it will need to increase the funding from the state budget for education for what is not allowed, but given everything this country is spending, I think we can afford it. Therefore, the national pedagogical standard when we talk about school staff, it clearly prescribes the profile of professional associates, not only the number of schools must employ according to the number of students in school. Professional associates are thus considered a educator, psychologist, educational rehabilitation profile experts, librarian and health worker. For example, schools with up to 180 students must employ two professional associates, one of whom must be a educator. Schools between 180 and 500 students must employ three professional associates while schools with more than 500 students must employ four professional associates. Healthcare professionals, on the other hand, are employed in accordance with the needs of a particular school, but with the approval of the competent ministry. The pedagogical standard also prescribed a mandatory number of other workers, so each primary school must have an employee secretary, accounting manager, while the number of executives on auxiliary technical tasks is determined on the basis of the available space of school and type of heating. For example. One maid goes to at least 450 meters of space per executioner in schools. On the other hand, according to data from e-mothers in primary schools, 32,000 teachers were employed in the parent and regional schools, of which 11,000 were in the classroom, and 21,000 in the course in question and about 3,200 professional associates. When you look at all these figures, we know that this NPOO funding from this World Bank loan is really not big and is actually taking up only a few percent of the funds available to Croatia from the Euro Funds themselves, and I think that now that we have missed the one from 2014-2020, it is really the last moment to target the resources in the development of education. When we talk about the world's own resources, according to the estimates they've made, it says this way, that an increase in the teacher's norm takes 20, 22 teaching hours to spend this whole day's teaching model. Of course, every school must have a kitchen and dining room, it takes a free meal for 20% of students according to the socioeconomic criteria. The highest number of students in the class may remain the same, but the average increases to 20 students. An estimate of the resources for all these infrastructure investments from 2021-2030.g. The World Bank estimated between 250m and 285m euros, and an annual increase in the funding of education from the state budget for additional teachers, continuing assistants, a food-subsidized cook to 50m euros. I am now interested in seeing that nearly 500 amendments have been refused to the state budget, where we have indeed asked for some smaller amounts, where even funds have been raised to raise the assistant captains in the follow-up, and now suddenly it is said that with this loan I repeat we will raise to build physical infrastructure that we will suddenly find 50 million euros in the state budget for all of this staff. It seems to me quite frankly more like science fiction, and I'd like it to be true, and I'd like it to happen, but I don't know in what way, where would these funds be found if we weren't completely justified amendments that amounted to only a few million kunas didn't approve, and they repeatedly refused here in this assembly? When the World Bank was doing an assessment, she said if no rationalisation were to be seen to achieve absolutely anything that had been outlined in the full-day teaching model by 2030, then an assessment of infrastructure investment funds would be made from 2021-2027. amounting to 600m euros and an annual increase in education funding from the state budget of 150m euros. It's not a small amount, but I think we're all aware that the jacket is repeatedly increasing investment in defense and the rest of me don't think we can say priority areas, then I certainly believe that we'll find funds for education. [[Intruder Radin: Time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96813	Thank you very much. Mr Rade Simičević will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96814	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Right now in the introduction, I support any investment concerning the system of education and education, and I also have to relate to my colleague Bakic, not only to the walls, not only to the objects, but also to the people. It's people who make the system good or less good. And therefore any investment in the system of education and education is not spending but is actually creating new values that will give tomorrow's labour market new added value. But I also want to support this loan from the World Bank, which has approved 25m euros for projects that will improve learning conditions. It goes to a project of 50 schools that will come through a public tender and I hope that this project will indeed serve as an example for all other investments that will take place in the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of Science and Education will therefore provide support to the introduction of a system of full-time teaching or full-time stay, but in any case, it will be extended to stay in schools, improved education of school infrastructure teachers, improved learning outcomes especially in a more unfavourable situation, and clearly an evaluation of experimental implementation conducted by the NCVO in parallel with national exams and strengthening the capacities of the Ministry of Science, education for the implementation of reforms will be made. Since the school day will be better brought into line with the usual working day, mothers and fathers of children attending full-time classes will facilitate participation in the labour market, and thus increase income. The project will strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Science to expand the whole-day teaching system throughout the country, as well as the implementation of the necessary sectoral reforms. The proposed project will support the systematic transformation of our basic education system. The project will provide technical assistance and infrastructure needed to introduce a full day course in 50 demonstration schools. Thanks to such built-up capacities, the competent authorities will be able to introduce the whole-day teaching model throughout the country. Direct benefit from these 50 schools will have 32500 students, their parents, and teaching and administrative staff. The World Bank will also take advantage of its expertise gained by implementing complex education reforms worldwide to help improve strategic planning and management of the school networks. The project will support the creation of new infrastructure standards for Croatian schools that will include building resistance to earthquakes, and the application of best practices related to OECD and EU standards in the area of climate change, energy efficiency, which will contribute to the achievement of the European Green Plan. We have not participated since yesterday with the World Bank, we have participated, the Republic of Croatia for more than 28 years. During that period, the bank placed nearly 5 billion euros in 50 projects. The current programme of the bank is aimed at easing the economic social consequences of COvid 19, rebuilding after the earthquake, traffic, judiciary, business environment innovation, science and technology, and economic development in Pannonian Croatia. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development was founded in 1994 and the Republic of Croatia is in the constitution, i.e. an integral part of the EBRD headed by the Netherlands. With the Netherlands, 13 countries of Armenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Georgia, Israel, Croatia, northern Macedonia, Moldova, Romania, Ukraine and Montenegro are still included. The impact of educational reform in the Republic of Croatia is limited by a low number of educational hours in the education system. At primary education level, the number of teaching hours in the Republic of Croatia is more than double the European average. We currently have 1890 hours versus the European average of 4062 hours. One of the key preconditions for increasing the number of teaching hours is the infrastructure capacity of schools. We need to know that almost 60% of our primary school students attend classes in two shifts, while 3% of students attend classes even in three shifts, using the possibility of mobilising the EU's largest funds so far, the government has proposed an ambitious plan to enable the reform plan and investment in the education sector. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan 2021-2026 provides an additional €2.28 billion for the transfer of 30% of students to one shift, and the rest is planned to be financed from the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion. The financial commitments created for the Republic of Croatia as a borrower under the contract will be returned from the state budget for the period from 2027 to 2032. The aim of this project is to improve the learning environment in selected schools according to the system of day-long teaching or full-time stay, and to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Science and Education to expand the system of full-time teaching and implementation of sectoral reforms. The project consists of the following parts. For more hours to learn, develop a system of day-long teaching by developing guidelines for increasing learning time for all students, including in further beyond teaching activities, defining pedagogical practice in line with the new curricula, designing a model of teacher education, engaging professors and experts in higher education institutions as a teaching consultant that will enable teachers to conduct all-day courses. Designing and setting up mentoring programs among schools where the directors of less successful demonstration schools will be in cooperation with pairing with those schools that are successful in their work. It also strengthens the capacity of the Ministry of Science and Education to implement reforms, to provide support for the implementation of the system of full-time teaching, to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Science and Education to support key aspects of implementation of the reform including the establishment of a working group for reform within the ministry, to provide technical assistance to the implementation and evaluation of the necessary and education in school management, to support local self-government in adapting their local network of schools and to promote their participation, to participate in the full-day follow-up. All of this wouldn't actually be possible without the enthusiasm of our valuable teachers who, even during this pandemic, we had the opportunity to see them selflessly give and educate and raise our young generations. On the basis of all the arguments that I have presented, I hope the HDZ will support the Final Bill on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank and the Reconstruction and Development for the well-being of all stakeholders in the system of education and education, above all, students, teachers, parents and the social community, and I therefore hope that it will strengthen the competences of our students, especially students from primary school who go to high school later and that we will finally get a system that will create a land of knowledge, and we are a small country and, in fact, what we have is most important to sell knowledge, and there is no territory or water or forest, and I don't know what is happening to anyone. So we're fighting for a country of knowledge, only investment in knowledge is not spending, but all that money that is invested in knowledge will be returned to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96815	Thank you, too. Ms. Marijana Puljak will speak on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. It would be more specific... on behalf of the representative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96816	Thank you for the correction, on behalf of the MPs. Yes, here's a respected colleague and colleagues, you know, now that we're talking about the club and the MPs that as a party, we started our political path by fighting citizens for a primary school in Split, a failed primary school. Znjan Pazigrad School, which was built here and opened in 2017. The first elementary school in the free Republic, the first elementary school after 20 years, more than 20 years in Split and therefore one excellent modern school with all its facilities, sports halls and the possibility of a full-time stay is for children up to 4.4 classes. So, the first year it was a school in one shift, so it was designed, but here for two years, after two years, it became a school and it opened up a second shift because a lot of young families next door were actually thrilled about what that school looked like and somehow everyone concentrated on that school and had to open second, second shift. So, after this story, after fighting 9 years of various protests, correspondence on various sides, various activities here the schools have opened up, but here science and education have continued to be the foundation of our action and we really believe that both science and education are the foundation of every modern society. It is important to note, some have already said that the education system is therefore not just about buildings, schools, nor I would say neither institutions, the laws but actually young people are ready to contribute to the overall development of a global and national society with the expectation that after completing education they will live and work in an orderly society in which they will be able to fulfill their ambitions, here are all their potentials. Quality education must be made available to all under equal conditions, including measures to enable and encourage social passing in accordance with personal desires, potentials and abilities. It is very important to keep an eye on some here, and I will again point out and be tireless in taking care of teachers and teachers. Teachers and teachers should enjoy a very great reputation in society. The career in this system of education and education should be among the 10 most desirable careers. However, what is the situation in Croatia today? Today, in fact, the education system in Croatia depends on me to tell active enthusiastic individuals in this system that are taking steps and my examples, I would say, and my exceptions confirm the rule that teachers are in fact in society today in some way belittled. So, we're talking here a moment ago he mentioned a fellow country of knowledge, there was a country of knowledge of whether there were various ministers, and they promised schools in one shift several times and talked about this country of knowledge all the time, but here it seems after the latest census that the country of knowledge has fled to Ireland. Now that all our knowledge is here, I don't know in Ireland, Germany, and where people have already escaped. But let's try to turn it the other way. The situation today is that in Croatia only 40% of students go on one shift. As we've heard, here's a little under 67, 57% of the students on two shifts, while about 3% of the students go to school in three shifts. As far as the term shift is unknown outside I would say Croatia or these few Eastern European countries say one, I think I already talked about one case here from the assembly room when we were with one of our friends from France, we explain to them during the fight for the school here, why here we are fighting for school, our children in Split go to schools that are in 3 shifts, etc., asks a man what you think in 3 shifts, and I mean we say, I say, well, you know, the schools are in 2 shifts, and here are at 3 o'clock. He says, no shifts, what shifts are. So people didn't understand what a shift was, that there are two shifts at school. And here we are today, '22. In the 21st century, again and again, we are talking about whether all schools in Croatia should be on one shift. As I said in the replica, the difference is what a school is in one shift or a whole day's stay. I'd say we should have a goal in one shift with a whole day's stay. So that kids at that school have both a meal and a lunch and all those extracurricular activities to do at that school like parents go to work, that kids are actually there until parents come home and go home with them. So that all those activities that usually walk after school do not know about various physical activities, languages, and what additional activities they perform to do so at school. The city of Split was one of the worse cities in the country under the conditions of education because it was really the most schools in 3 shifts it was in Split. So, of the 7 schools in the country 4 were in Split, so far there are still 2, in the meantime whether some of them have been expanded. Of the 29 schools in Split, half of them are in 2 shifts, 2 are for now if they remain in 3 shifts. There's one high school in a state that works in three shifts. It's your medical school in Split. Here, this morning they got permission and permission to upgrade another floor and they'll try to spread it so it'll be on two shifts. So we really need to work on something here as a society. So let's first achieve the goal of not having a single school on three shifts, and then let's put this whole school on one, one shift. Here we hope that the improvement of conditions in the introduction of this full-day teaching will help this pilot project. Croatia really has a problem because in Europe it is constantly starting to invest in knowledge. We all remember that famous full curricula reform that was still in 2016 and '17. protested and more than 50,000 people went out on the streets looking for quality education which tells us that people are very aware that they are really leading, taking care of their children's education, realize how important quality education is for their future, the future of our society, and how important their teachers and teachers play. They have indeed been involved during this process of full curricula reform, shown exceptional interest, enthusiasm for the whole system to be reformed. Here's what I'm not sure, here's five years after all that they still have that enthusiasm in them. Especially today, whether at a time of crisis and such an unpredictable future it is very important to invest in knowledge, education because only reasonable, educated people and knowledge can get us out of this crisis. So here we are recalling these curricula reforms, some of the goals that were set at the time, and all of the substituting these complete reforms to date are not really those objectives that have been set in the strategy of science and education until today. Thus, there it was mentioned whether she wanted to provide more useful, meaningful education in line with their development age and interests, and closer to everyday life. Education that will train them for modern life, a world of work and a continuation of education. To provide parents with greater involvement in the education of children, school life, clear expectations, objective evaluation, evaluation, more meaningful and more frequent feedback on the achievements of their children, and teachers, teachers and other staff of educational institutions should have been provided to strengthen roles and strengthen professionalism, greater autonomy in work, creative work, reduction of administrative obligations, motivation of students and reduction of external pressures. Here, it is before us, so they already said we can't actually here today, in fact, all of these discussions come down to this agreement and we can't say much about it or whether the thing is already signed, even we've been passing these laws for a few days before the contract should come into force on 16th, 16th March. The amount of EUR 25 million here, if you can answer later, I had the same questions as Mr. Bakic this fee for not withdrawing 0.25% a year, I saw that it was some standard, but we know how much this loan will cost us at the end. And what we don't know, so those rules that will be passed, the accompanying rules are whether they're with these contracts and how these 50 schools are going to be chosen and whether it's really 50 or less depending on that asset restriction and depending on the investments that should be made in those schools. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96817	Mr. Ante Kujundzic is now starting with a series of individual discussions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96818	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Bukarica, dear secretary of state, it is generally good to look at yourself in the mirror, all of us, to see what we have done in our lives well, that we have not done well and then come to a certain conclusion. It is a sad or sad fact that various ministers with different ideas in different governments have made a good trade and result and a taste of all this is the status that our education has today. And the truth is now we can all clap here now depends on which side of the assembly it comes from. However, whoever spent a certain amount of time in that system, whoever lived out of that system, whoever read crazy things in that system that were coming, who have no foothold in one common sense will understand what it is. The key document carries a time sign met and met with what. Meeting what we've beaten the waste millions into a variety of curriculative reforms so far? What brains wrote, with what purpose, and who paid for it, and what is their responsibility? True, the secretary of state says that the wages in education have been rising in percentages, so that's true, no one has challenged it. So no one. Like the fact that the average salary in elementary school is 8300 kuna is not correct. But even if it were that big, let's go, let's go to your extra 100% add another 10%, let's make it 8,500 kuna, so the minimum consumer basket for a four-member family is 7,800 kuna. Are you State Secretary from now on, at the end of the day, it's useless for me to address you here as it has instructed you to be artillery, but since you may have a second term in that ministry as well, perhaps we can approach you in such a way. So do you know that of all EU members, the minimum wage in the context of the education system has grown in Croatia. And that's what I started with, so let's all look at ourselves in the mirror and say something rotted in this system for years, so for years this system has been top-notch education has led to the level that it's about an old woman who's dying, but we need to keep her alive. So is it embarrassing to know that in Croatia currently 1,360 unprofessional people are working in protest. So is it a shameful fact that it's a matter of days when we come in which no one professional, no one who's worth anything in this country will want in this system. The system where people were brought to a beggar stick. You know what one of the teachers says, I don't know him personally, I read their comments. He says wages can pay rent, directors, war loans and food. If we want some luxury like clothes, and it's a job where you won't come to God every day with the same clothes or detergent or a certain perfume, I have to do another job. So we're talking about people with high-end expertise. We're talking about people from whom not only the Ministry but completely what everything that makes the state a state has made a big difference from the reality that these people in that system live. In the 21st century, we're going to talk about something someone in another country had a long time ago, it's a whole day's stay. Well, we don't have soap at school. I spent 14 years in that system. From teacher to principal. What we're going to brag about, with the infrastructure pills we got, the thunders, the power runs out at the school, you can't charge them, you don't break down, you don't have anyone to serve from or you have to wait until someone else comes. What are we talking about? So, I think it's generally time we looked into each other's eyes. This is a pillar of society. These people who work in this system have created all of us just as we are, and live with life. I'm a beggar. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96819	Thank you. A few replicas, the first one has Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96820	Here I am just getting a call from my colleague Rasudiæ, who welcomes you all, this colleague, colleague Kujundzic, to me my wife, who, like me, is always a joke, says that if there is one decision they have made at the Ministry of Education that teachers and educators cheer up and always wonders as to who you were wondering who this lumen is who comes up with these decisions that only go in the direction of additional burden on educational workers to some kind of administration. That's all. So here's the gentleman, they're just coming up with how they're going to put extra burden on educators by some kind of administration, not how it's going to make their jobs easier, or how it's going to make our education system better, where our educators are going to feel good not only about pay but working conditions, so relationships. we have a situation that actually parents lead the educational process [[Intruder: Time, time.]] the educational process. [[Time, Mr. Grmoya, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96821	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96822	We can give a whole range of examples that do not put into the core what the school should have as such, which is teaching. So, the truth is, if we leave from 2006 I remember when I was the first cloudy day I was, stepping foot into a school like a young teacher was a famous HNOS, and then it all came down to putting certain correlations on a certain ad board at school like this. Then every reform that came after that basically just piled up the administrative section. So, schools, schools have lost what their essence is, and that's teaching. So, more or less every teacher in a particular school takes care of that certain, certain forms teach in time instead of getting tired of what is much more important.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96823	Mrs. Rasputic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96824	The break-up on the phone, Selak Rasdic, is in the assembly. So the esteemed colleague Kujundzic lumen exists, but it's written loomen and it's one of those systems that are further designed to drive teachers away, to transfer them to some virtual sphere, and in fact most of them feel like the last fools when they're trying to communicate with that system. A big problem arose during this Covid crisis when we talk about the teaching process. In the first plan were teachers as epidemiologists and that was what they were supposed to worry about while the teaching process and the quality of teaching were completely dropped into the second plan. How do you comment and how are we going to deal with these gaps that have remained in the knowledge of our students, which will only be potent because they are being upgraded to new knowledge and there is no foundation?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96825	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96826	Thank you, Chairman. Which is why the ministry should also know how to accept criticism, but not with the goal of feeling bad, but that certain things that are right under their noses can be solved without relying on external factors. So, I'm just gonna ask what's with the director's status? I'm reading the other day, the lady at 63 didn't get a new term, and now she's at the employment office at 63 years old, she was 19 years old. So, for years, the ministry, and the secretary of state will remember from the famous licensing, the famous badges of Blaženka Divjak and everything else, we haven't solved one basic thing, and that's the status of the person who had an undefined contract, which is one form of law, so in two consecutive terms, he's losing his contract of work indefinitely, and he's not becoming technologically excess, but he's going, and then all of this you're asking me think there's no need to talk. So we have things under our nose that ad hoc can get rid of and why they don't get rid of. I don't know that. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96827	Mrs. Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96828	Thank you. So here's the person you're from the profession, you have experience in the work... and as directors and as a teacher, we have seen that this strategic framework of all-day teaching actually foresees both the possibility of watching whether the teaching hour would extend from 45 to 60 minutes or even introduce 9 years or 10 years of primary education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do you think it's realistic actually in today's education system that it can be introduced because, let's say, nowhere mentions how, in what way we've seen these are physical infrastructure-only funds, do you think that's even real?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96829	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96830	In general, I think I should say again as someone who has insisted in this sector, so I think that there will be a paper, paper-based matter perfectly well done. Which will be in practice, if we are taught some past times, it will be about certain half solutions. I will tell you that in 409 school institutions in Croatia, less than 10 students attend. Croatia has remained in slightly more than 50,000 students over the past seven years. In the end, we can ask ironically whether we need to rebuild school buildings to work on a shift if we lose students from school institutions with this intensity. So we're free to say that losing students and closing schools is actually one of the biggest demographic breakdowns in the country. I'm afraid no form of infrastructure procedure will lead to what this document is called for, which is efficiency. People create efficiency, and people are forgotten again in this system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96831	Thank you. Mrs. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96832	Well, here I was going to ask myself, since you were the first teacher of religious science and then the headmaster of Snakes School, will the Snakes School apply to this program? Is she interested in having a full day course in the Snakes? How can we tell a small school what life looks like there, and is there a need for day - to - day teaching? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96833	So I'm not even here. touched the founders who should take care of schools in this context. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In 2014, when I became headmaster of the school worked in two shifts, she worked in two shifts, we had a gym one part of her rent, and we organized our own work in one shift, adding extra rooms, and we weren't waiting for anyone because if we were a key problem, there's no criterion. So if you come to Split-Dalmatia County in the office itself there are no clearly defined criteria. Why are there no clearly defined criteria? So in the Imot region, which is a major demographic negative trend, so take it, I don't know, a school in Tijarica that was restored from foundation to roof, there are about a dozen students, take the Snakes school that was in that period while I was the headmaster of about 350 students, so it was disintegrated in fact. '74. were both doors and sockets and in such [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] The rooms are happening and... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96834	Thank you, thank you very much, thank you. Mrs. Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96835	Thank you. My colleague, I would refer to the question of my colleague, Puljak, in line with your experience as headmaster of the school that was on two shifts. Since it is evident from this contract that 20 000 euros can be given to each pilot in these demonstration schools as a pilot, please tell me in your experience what can be infrastructureally reconstructed in one school for 20,000 euros is there in a smaller school, let alone in a larger school?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96836	With 20,000 euros in one small school.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96837	I'm sorry, I was wrong before, so I didn't... I won't be wrong now, so I'll give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96838	With 20,000 euros, therefore, one school can, can arrange or build one classroom of 50 squares and equip the set, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96839	Mr. Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96840	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Kujundzic. You've done a lot of critical things like this in your debate, you've been in the air for a long time, I'm out there in '96. The same worked in education and wages in education at that time compared to other professions was much less than it is now these years. For example, the salary of a professor was half as low as the trainee’s salary of an engineer. Now it's not like that, which means something's a little better for education. You said we had nothing to brag about, we can certainly boast about our students. I'm there 100% sure knowing the way students through all these years isn't worse than it was in previous years. But I'm also interested, since you're coming from the Bridge, when the Bridge had the chance to be in the government, why didn't it fight for a resort of enlightenment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96841	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96842	So this way, I'm ground floored to answer and return to one year in 2016, even more ground floor to return to '96. And you can laugh, you can laugh. I don't know what they'll do when they hear your inquiry, I don't know what they'll all think when they hear your inquiry... Okay, all those who work in this system today when they hear your inquiry and everything you said. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're talking about students, who mentioned students, who mentioned educators living exclusively or working on the basis of their enthusiasm? They certainly don't work in a system where they can live decently from the pay they receive. I just can't figure out that you could've had a trap to ask such a question, here's my mother's. You have a hairstyle you have everything, but I don't understand that you can even ask such a question, bring in a ratio of students that I didn't even mention, bring in a co-ordinate bridge that was in 2016, and as you're going to ask me something I, according to our Stipa and the Minister and, in general, the Minister [[Intruder Radin: Time, time.]] I gave the Ministry of Education one constructive criticism of what he would understand, and it's not a problem. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96843	Mr. Totgergeli, a real violation of the Rules of Procedure is not a replica. No, don't stay here. I don't know. You're the one who broke the rules of procedure or the replica? ... No, you want a breach of the rules of procedure, I don't get it? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Because if the replica has to stay, I think it can stay here, if it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure can go to the place right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96844	The Honorable Chairman. He can't be a replica of a man he's finished with his discussion and he can't be replicated any further. I've brought up a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and if you'll give me your word...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96845	.../Intruder Radin: All right, breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you go, here you go./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96846	....to speak then I will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96847	Go ahead, give it back, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96848	Thank you. Thank you, Vice President. The Rules of Procedure 238 got hurt because my colleague wonders that something might have crossed my mind. Well, in this assembly, we can really think of a lot of things. My colleague mentioned the last 14 years he was doing something, I mentioned 26. The relationship between something that was before and now and now living engineers of their salary and now living professors of pay. These differences are now less than they were 26 years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96849	.../Intruder Radin: Thank you, thank you, thank you./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96850	Our students know as much as they knew then.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96851	If it were a replica, it wouldn't have been a warning, that's the difference. Is that right? Mrs. Selak Rasudic, please. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96852	I've already talked about inside the school and to be completely political or market-correct I'm going to say that it's not always the Lino-lade case, in some schools they serve only zero. This isn't a joke, it's a case. That's not an unimportant question. Although when we talk about school throughout the day, perhaps the most important question is that children will then depend largely or thoroughly on school meals during the day, and we know what our problem is with obesity, as well as on the growth of diabetes and the general health of the nation. So something we need to focus seriously on and systematically ignore as a problem for years. And then we have a situation not anywhere, but in the capital where we are expected to have a higher standard according to the standard of the city of Zagreb, which is what school menus look like. As it is only in other schools whose menus are not publicly available and which have less resources in the budget when talking about local self-governments can only imagine. What I want to say now concerns the overall improvement of the teaching process in the Republic of Croatia. To do so at all requires an analysis that has never occurred, detailed and impartial schools for life, and then decide which direction to move on. And this is how every minister keeps his new reform. It is necessary to restore the process of leading and evaluating educational reform into the national framework, to use the knowledge and tools of relevant national institutions to assess the school's effects for life so far, and to introduce a comprehensive system of external evaluation of different levels of education of students, classrooms, teachers, school directors and regions through national exams and improved national graduations, and to use the results to plan educational policies and practices. The positive practice of other European countries points to a gradual increase in the quality of education, continuous modernisation of teaching content and improvement of teaching methods based on an overall system of external evaluation without major and discounted jumps, and drastic organisational changes, which is our specialty. Because usually ministers tend to build themselves a monument for their short term, rather than see school through a system that needs to be sustainable in the long term. As regards day-to-day teaching in all schools in the Republic of Croatia, it should be subject to training conditions for students who want more knowledge, better grades or with difficulties following classes at a satisfactory level. As I said, the alarming fact is that indeed a large and growing number of parents pay additional instructions so that children can follow the curriculum and program at all. Special attention is paid to several colleagues and colleagues of Glamuzina in the public debate, so that they can continue to develop their talents as part of their day-long classes. The European Commission's strategic framework for education strongly emphasises the inevitable need to increase the quality of education through the reduction of classrooms, the implementation of programme-oriented teaching, the implementation of additional new programmes, the application of new models of student attainment and the need to teach new skills and knowledge, and this can only be achieved in the context of day-to-day teaching. In 2011, a decision was taken on the adoption of a network of primary and secondary schools, dormitories and education programmes. The network sets out the conditions that should contribute to the development of a better, more flexible and more efficient system of education and education. From different analyses, the existing working conditions of educational institutions clearly result in neither the existing network, nor the working conditions being optimal, and in particular the problem of the inequality of conditions that threatens one of the basic rights, which is the right to achieve equal opportunities for participation in the quality education process for all students. Furthermore, the majority of schools are inadequately equipped for modern teaching and evaluation methods, and they are completely lacking the science cabinets and equipment for research-oriented teaching. It is necessary to carry out an analysis of working conditions in school institutions and that is the first thing we should hear from the Secretary of State or the Minister, anyone who comes here, to develop a proposal for measures to reduce existing differences, and to provide material equipment with a view to building, upgrading and reconstructing existing or new objects, taking into account demographic movements, geographical specificities and needs of the economy. That is at least a minimum of constructive contribution to this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96853	Thank you. A few replicas. Mrs. Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96854	I'm going to ask you colleagues, although Mr Totgergeli has prompted me to ask my question by finding that Croatian students are actually great, they have fantastic results. I believe that you as a scientist will know how Croatian students stand on the PISA tests and how do these results actually, what do they, what kind of message do they send about the quality of our education?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96855	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96856	Depends on what area we're talking about. However, I must say immediately that when we talk about PISA research, I will express a certain skepticism because it is not an institution that has legitimacy to direct educational processes, it is already an institution whose main objective is economic and market, and it is imposed as a roof institution that has the right to direct educational processes. And there's been a major failure if I'm asked as a scientist in that sense, which is that teaching has started to adapt, to write to tests to achieve the best possible results, so you have countries that have been preparing for weeks, if not longer, instead of having them and good results as a result of the quality teaching process, so the PISA test has become a goal for itself, which should never be in the long-term quality education system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96857	The bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96858	Dear colleagues, Selak Rasdic, I am still under the impression of Mr Totgergelia's statement from HDZ who compared the current situation in our education, in fact some kind of education staff receiving, not even mentioning how much more of the administration is now on educational staff, how much price increases in this period, how much pressure by parents in the education process, so we have almost 50% of excellent students because it is easier for each educational worker to give a better grade than to compete with parents who are almost terrorised because of their enrolment in high school, and then the gentleman talks about how our children and our students are excellent. Well, children are great and they have good potential, but they're under-invested in the education system, and especially in those who are the pillar of that education system, and these are educational workers, how do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96859	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96860	I'll agree with you, Mr. Grmoy, that the focus should be restored to the teachers and to their standard. Except for the fact that they've been paid for their work, and they're the ones who created us all and will create future generations. They are far from sufficiently socially evaluated and their contribution to what should be the case. It is necessary to establish a model of permanent professional development of teachers and teachers and to provide them with greater autonomy in the planning and implementation of curricula. I didn't make it through the debate, but I have the whole part about the teacher's job and how to help them improve their standards. Indeed today, if we are to speak from the realm of real life, what their work is about is to serve everyone in different social groups in order to be available from 0 to 24 and meet the needs of all parents who are more burdened with the success of children than ever, and that in the future they will be able to achieve in the labour market at all, which is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96861	Thank you. Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96862	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, Selak Rasudiæ, therefore people with VSS, VSS therefore in education as I said they are in the last place of all people with VSS, I think that in the last place someone from the security sector with a salary is a little less than the salary of the educators, so they are in the last place, and it is the VSS if we talk about our Croatia. On the other hand, educational staff in Croatia seem to have something, something 40% lower than our neighbouring Slovenia's salary. So, what or what caused such disproportionateness to Croatia to one Slovenia?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96863	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96864	We have it in that old fight, so rule it out. So whenever teachers and others start fighting for their rights then there's a creation, a conscious creation of animosity within a public space where they're treated like dots of civil servants who are already overpaid by what they're doing and who are constantly making some new rights and some new privileges, etc. and instead of creating social solidarity and focusing on improving both their and our common standards, including entrepreneurs and everyone else, we divide ourselves and then target them as those who only want extra money from the budget, which is why their requirements for improving wages in practice rarely work out, and they were removed from the benefits they had and never returned to them in the way that they should have been in accordance with the applicable contracts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96865	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96866	Dear colleagues, so as you comment on the fact that we have actually put ourselves in the National Development Strategy that from the current 1,800 teaching hours we have to come by 2030 to 4,000, which is some EU average, and that right now in the Republic of Croatia only 20% of the district and parent schools have an extended stay and that parents themselves say that money is their biggest problem in financing this extended stay and therefore only 12% of children in all of Croatia are now attending this extended stay, and we want to jump to the head and introduce a whole-day teaching model.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96867	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96868	Even the price of meals has increased from about 5 to 9 kuna and will likely continue to grow in view of the current crisis, so people really can't, it's one of the meals, they can't afford a whole day's stay in terms of everything he requires. I'd like to track down what you said that we could hear from the secretary of state, have the opportunity to even address us in the final address, a little more detailed projection and more concrete results that he expects over a year, etc. and how they will fulfill them, and to allow as many schools as possible, and then parents all day long teaching. Because when you say you're going to achieve something like this number of classes by 2030, you ate a donkey wolf, everyone's going to cool off, and it's just going to be another topic and another plan that's failed, and so on. So I agree with you, we haven't heard the arguments, and we're convinced that what's mentioned here is realistic and feasible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96869	The time, thank you, no more replicas, thank you, and now it's up to Mrs. Wess. Sanja Radolovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96870	I thank you again, dear Vice President. I used to say more about statistics, now I'm going to talk about content. We mentioned before the PISA research, that I agree with their methodology is not the least we can say, somehow and more justly, is not being implemented in some way, by some norms and methods as it should be, but the results of these research themselves have been served in a strategic framework for the introduction of all-day classes and I will have to defuse you from a colleague from HDZ, unfortunately the results are not satisfactory, and what really concerns research has included and we can say some study of how those students who are lower socioeconomic status are also passing through, and the results are really devastating that we should all be concerned about how these results are going to improve and allow all students to develop equally. The results themselves, for example, from 2018. carried out at a higher level, including test areas of natural literacy, reading literacy, mathematical literacy. So let’s say that our first level of natural literacy is 38th place with a fall from 2006. and to be on average every 3rd year. The results are worsening by about 5 points, with 25% of our students not having basic knowledge and skills according to the results of these studies. As far as reading literacy is concerned, our students make 29th place, and about a fifth of the students showed no basis for knowledge and skill. As far as mathematical literacy is concerned, 40th place where 31% of students do not have basic knowledge and skills in the field of mathematical literacy itself. Also numerous researches including PISA, but others also point to a clear correlation between students of socioeconomic status and their achievements in measured domains, and a high level of inequality in outcomes of education in Croatia. What we should also say is that not only would it be that we are criticising, I really and the entire SDP club are for the concept of full-time teaching, we are for it to be made up of a mandatory and optional part where students would be from 8 to 17 in schools, but where they would have choices, when this part would last up to 15 hours, and 15 to 17 would be conducted an electoral programme, and not only in cooperation with teachers and employees of schools but also in cooperation with different sports societies, music schools, foreign language schools, associations, depending on the interest of pupils and parents, because I repeat their interest must be primary, opportunities for schools and availability of these other organisations. For that we are, however, we believe that a broad debate on what is announced, which is the extension of primary school education to 9 or 10 years, is not sure in what way this would actually contribute, or whether it might even prevent students from being better prepared for secondary education, follow-up at higher school level or after vocational education for the labour market itself. What we certainly believe must be the strategic goals of introducing this whole day's teaching are improving student educational achievements, ensuring equal opportunities for all students for overall development, improving the well-being of students and their families, but I must also stress the increase in autonomy and responsibility of schools and founders. We have a paradoxal situation today, on the one hand, I've talked several times today about the situation in the preschool system where the founders of cities, mahogany cities, finance both the material costs and everything else, here in primary schools are paid and the material costs are financed from the state budget. However, this does not mean, I repeat, that does not mean that JLS does not mean that if they find it urgent at school to hire housewives, janitors, secretaries, teachers, that they must wait 6 months to a year for the resolution ministry's consent to hire the same employees and employees, and I think that there must be an increase in autonomy, but also the responsibility of schools and the founders themselves. We also believe that more important should be included in this strategic framework and the results of the evaluations of the state's own graduation because everything is based, we need to see on these PISA studies, and not yet in detail, the results of the state's own graduation have not yet been introduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96871	Thank you very much. Mr. Kujundzic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96872	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, so what do you think should be a priority in a particular country that puts education in focus, infrastructure or material working status of people working in that system?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96873	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96874	So I don't think you need to be that big, to repeat that term again, Lumen, but of course there should first be the status of employees in the entire educational process from teachers to auxiliary technical staff because I don't really understand what our buildings are going to be looking for empty. I repeat, you just have a situation of 200 kindergartens that are built from rural development programs, in smaller environments there are kindergartens that really look like spaceships, but they are empty because they have no way to finance material costs, they have no way to finance the work of the staff that should be raised and taught our children.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96875	- Mrs. Crescent. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96876	Now there's a lot of things I'd like to look back on, we're short on these replicas. It is really important education, I am sorry that we are no longer involved in this debate, especially this primary education that is mandatory. That's where we should make the biggest contribution together. One of the key social issues is that the book has been burned to a few letters, so let me put it this way. As far as PISA is concerned, it is still OECD's ranking list and in general the feshitisation of the ranking list and the fact that educational reform is based on a narrow scale of quality, which only makes it immature in terms of democracy, education systems of individual countries. In 2014, a number of scientists wrote about it and published an open letter saying that with great skepticism, especially since reforms are being carried out and research is being taken in poor African countries. Well, here's what you can comment on. I wanted to do something else, but I don't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96877	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96878	You can always lift the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but we won't use it. This one, I couldn't agree more with you, which is why I said so. I think that we should primarily now take as a criterion the results of the evaluation of the state's graduation. Obviously we haven't agreed with ourselves yet, and the entire education system resor, but what I'm trying to say is actually good here you say this and our ministry should be a little brave. For example, we have good results in the field of primary school education, we have the lowest early exit rate of 3.3% and we are far the best in the EU, and still in our country it is not mandatory because the ministry says there is no money and it is afraid to be declared mandatory, and in fact there we see that students and parents do not need something important to be the best in this because I really think that we have all the parameters to be the best in the education system just need a little courage, determination and let the profession decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96879	- Mrs. Crescent. It's a pulac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96880	So here's a colleague just for, for this comment, that we're no longer involved in this, that the status of science and education in society will talk a lot when it's being formed, really when it's being torn apart and beat up for the minister of education and science, and we know what it looks like today if it's more important to get I don't know about finance, construction, economy, etc., for, for being a minister of education, no one is running, no one is, no, not drilling in the chest for it. Al, I wanted to comment on this proposal as to how you comment that part of the funds will go towards strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Science and Education, so what exactly capacities should be strengthened for them for the purpose of actually ensuring day-to-day teaching, so here are the 3-4 objectives, providing support for the implementation of this entire system, providing technical assistance, technical assistance in the design of educational reforms, so in fact, out of these 25 million euros, it seems that a large part will actually go to an increase in capacity... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96881	Thank you, thank you, wait, wait, wait, wait. Radolovic. I mean, I think I've got to give it to Mrs. Devereaux. Selak Rasudic for the violation of the Rules of Procedure because the breach of the Rules of Procedure was on, to this exposure, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96882	Article, yes, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96883	All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96884	Art. In 238, and certainly by accident, Puljak demeaned parliamentary representatives, did she forget to specify that HDZ does not crash into the chest when it comes to education, whenever it is a hot potato then it is reserved for the liberal partners. So there's been an HNS education in the last session, and now construction has tried this session, which could be the next social one?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96885	This wasn't a replica, a warning. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96886	I thank the chairman. I must really look at this first, so that HDZ has actually shown what it thinks about the importance of education of this when, with one move, the curricula reform that was positively assessed by the green light and by the European Commission itself and a series of other European developed countries has envied us of what this curricular reform predicted, but what it is. Let me answer to my colleague, Puljak. I really think there should be an increase in capacity. I can tell the experience of me coming from the system of science and higher education. For example, in the Ministry of Science and Education, when we are given licenses or valorized by some study program, you have an employee who works on it and if she goes to sick leave and if it's longer there, nobody even picks up the phone. I really think that there should be an increase in capacities, but on the other hand we in the education system have the Agency for Science and Higher Education, the Agency for Professional Education, the Agency for Adult Education, while some of these agencies are also intermediate bodies in implementing eu projects, so it's all insanely set up.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96887	Time. - Mrs. Crescent. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96888	Thank you. We continue on the same subject, strengthening capacity worth a total of 10 million euros if I understand correctly. It seems to me that it is not defined here which jobs will be and which capacities within the ministry itself will be filled, and I am not sure that capacity and knowledge of various other agencies and bodies will be used, it seems to me somehow that this increasingly draws on the use of external consulting and in-house services that will be supplied as HDZ and otherwise non-transparently shares such funds with its flocks and other stakeholders. And I'm most afraid, of 25 million euros, of some loan of 10 million will go away for whatever purpose in making project documentation, some models, evaluations instead of using resources that the state already has.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96889	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96890	I thank you for an extremely high-quality comment, and I have to say that I can sort of agree with you, in fact, all these bases and analyses of the world bank that I was talking about, and I don't know if you know they're paid 30 million, these were part of a wider package, they weren't just made for the Ministry of Science and Education, but here's an example of this, they made us some bases that we paid very much, and now we're taking the loan from them. We have a number of such examples, but I really hope that this capacity increase is not to say that we should continue to raise the state administration I think that indeed in the Ministry of Education itself in individual departments and services some people are really at a loss of strength and that there should be an increase in capacities, but I repeat, we should do one full analysis of how many people work in agencies, what exactly there are doing and all together to see how much capacity needs to be increased.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96891	Thank you. And Mr. Grmoy's last replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96892	Dear colleagues Radolovic, therefore, as far as curriculative reform is concerned, I do not think any reform will improve the situation in the Croatian education system. What is necessary is to restore authority to our educators, better to pay them, to protect them from the pressure they have from their parents in this educational system. And when this colleague Puljak said that no one wanted that hot potato, so we had a situation that HNS had its participation in the government justifying that they would save that education portfolio in the future and curricula reform, and that that is why they would enter this unnatural alliance with HDZ even though they went to elections together with the SDP and were together with you on the lists, so they would not have curricular reform to save the education system but to change the paradigm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96893	Here's your answer. How did you say unnatural... Here's the answer. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96894	Yeah, well, I agree, but look, you know what's also very interesting, this HNS was with us in the coalition, and they were involved in actually making these curricula reforms, and then HDZ abolished it, and then the HNS with them came back into the coalition because they wanted to continue to carry out this full curricula reform, and it was interesting when you looked at the proposal of that curricula reform that it was written in 95% of it by that SDP reform and that it was actually based on this whole major curricular reform of HNS, but we didn't expect anything else. You also had a situation with the adoption of the HKO Amendments Act where the SDP wrote the whole bill, they put it at the bottom of the agenda. The next day HDZ appeared in the procedure from letter to letter, from word to word with the same bill, which I am pleased to actually and compliment us because I think we all achieved together what should have leveled professional and university studies.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96895	Thank you. And now it's Madame's turn. Vesna Bedekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96896	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's how much time allows somehow I have the need just a few here moments maybe a little bit better to explain and shed some light on this here's just a summary, so we all know the loan value of 25 million euros, a deadline of 10. from 5.g. it starts with half-year maturity, meaning some range or period from 2027 to 2032, that's kind of basic data. We mentioned and mentioned often the name of this project, and I will repeat it "Croatian meeting a sustainable, fair and effective education". So now, we have already made it clear and aware that it is indeed a multi-annual project or a multi-annual reform process. I said that in the beginning by asking a question through the replica of Mr. Secretary of State, and I really believe that the essence of this project is, above all, two things, so focus on achieving it and it comes from the very name of the project to achieve effective results in education through, above all, enabling all students to succeed, equal to all, and by ensuring again equal material working conditions through, first and foremost, allowing the transition to one shift as a basis for full-day teaching, which will include what I think is very important among other contents, a meal for all students. Another strong focus, and this was the most discussed focus on empowerment of teacher’s interest, whether and on restoring the attractiveness of the teacher’s interest in better paid teaching and on effective or appropriate professional representation, which at this time is quite poor. I'll remind her that, therefore, I support her and I agree with all of this, even though I'm going to say, regardless of this essence and these focuss, I, as a long-standing educator, am writing 31. The internship until 2016, after which is the internship in HS, we can discuss everything and, of course, it is important to discuss teachers, teachers and their jobs, about good pay, you know what the focus should be? At the student, at the student, in the classroom focused on the student, it should be a focus. It's the most important focus of this story, but I'll remind you that the average teacher's salary in the last 5 years. It has increased by 23.5% and according to the data I will remind you that the average net salary of teachers, teachers and teachers in primary school is 8.300 kuna, and in high school 8500 kuna and these are facts. And now let me just put some emphasis on the termological difference. Here in the debate, it seems to me that we've started a mustache. In fact, working on one shift is not equal to teaching all day. Also, extended stay is not equal to day-to-day teaching. So let's not confuse the terms, so moving to one shift is a basic assumption for day-to-day teaching. What does all day's teaching mean? So stay of students from morning through teaching activities through giving meals, through the possibility of additional and additional work for gifted students, for students with developmental difficulties, through electoral items and various other activities. We have the data, 60% of the students are on 2 shifts, 3% of the students are on 3 shifts, so it wants to rise to at least 90% of all in 2 shifts, and then 100%. And of course I will remind you of this fact that we really want to admit it or not, in relation to the whole EU, we have at least, double, more than twice the burden of children to continue across the EU, so that's 1890 hours, and on average, the EU 4062 hours, and we really have the possibility. Well, thank you, that's it. [[Intruder: Thank you]] I was thinking of something else, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96897	You're a soldier's stop. This one's going to get us a Mrs. O'Donnell. Sanja Radolovic explains where the breach of the Rules of Procedure was.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96898	Yes, in art. In 238, the Honorable Vice President of this office would just like to correct that inaccuracies. We all here from the opposition understand the terms of day-long teaching and extended stay and this time we believed... Not on the same side of it, we're all about introducing a concept of day-to-day teaching. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are pleased to see a 25 million-euro loan raised from the world, from the European World Bank, we are glad to have the resources in the NPO, but we do not understand exactly how this will be achieved because these funds are not enough And he doesn't have the resources for that social welfare thing. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] infrastructure. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96899	Thank you, just that, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Of course it's a warning, but this one would be better if I stopped right now. Don't answer anything, you have nothing to answer here [[Intruder: Well, then it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure not to answer.]] Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic has a replica. [[Thank you, but I would.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96900	Thank the President, Mrs Bedekovic, please explain when you have already said that the whole point should be focused on the student, how you comment on the fact that there are 1,400 unprofessional, unqualified teachers in the system today, so they are handing over the subject for which they do not have adequate expertise. And I see you've also got a final hearing or a final hearing, so if you don't get to answer in a minute, I invite you to explain for the next five minutes how the party you're coming from caused and bestowed on it. So we're talking teacher drains, and without them and without their quality expertise, there's no focus on what you're talking about in this individual debate. They can only be focused on possible chalk and that tablet behind them, but not on the expertise they need to pass on to someone when they don't have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96901	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96902	Thank you very much. Hey, buddy, have you ever worked in class? No, this is a monologue. [[/Intruder: No, no, no.]] This is a monologue. [[No, just no, there's no.../]] So, you don't, by your profession, have all the respect in the field of education and education, I appreciate your profession, you've never been in the classroom, so you can understand what I've been talking about with respect for the students and when you understand the concept of teaching directed at a student, then we can discuss it on an even level. So far, no story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96903	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96904	236, very short and very clear. You didn't answer the question. And here I am not talking to you as someone who comes from the sphere of education, but as a representative with a representative, and the question has been, how do you comment on the fact that 1,400 people who do not have the qualifications to teach the subject they teach are working in the education system. Question, answer. I accept your warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96905	Thank you, thank you very much, but you know what, Mrs. Oreshkovic, I accept the reminder, it's like saying I broke the law, I accept that I broke the law because it's the law. I don't know, I mean what I know. Here you go, Mr. Totgergeli. A reminder, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96906	To me?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96907	No, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96908	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, it is evident that you have much more experience in working in the field because unlike colleagues Kujundzic who are still so nervous, the aggressive story itself you are directing your discussion into what is the point, and these are our students. I haven't worked in education for a long time, but I realized that's actually what's most important and then when in '96, when they were much more underpaid educators than other professions, than today it was again directed to students and those teachers who had actually had better results with their students in those classes. What we're discussing today is that we've already started to have one-way classes, it might be easier to spend it in smaller towns and smaller areas than in big cities. where there is a large number of students [[Intruder: Time, time.]] and a small number of spaces. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96909	Look, look up to Mrs. Bedekovic. When you say the time Mrs. Bedekovic stops. Here you go, Mrs. Bedekovic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96910	Thank you very much. So, dear colleague, look, this is a very complex system, and there's no way of attacking access, there's no scale, I understand colleague Kujundzic, he's a young man with, as he said when he was 18 years old or 14 years old, and young people need to point out some problems, they should be even rebellious, but also, with all due respect, should be back in time and let's not forget that, I'm talking from my experience and my work experience when I started out, I started as a teacher at school with some when I would now recalculate 3, 3 and a half thousand kuna salaries, they were small coins. Then at that time compare one of these and it's a big difference and it can't be said that the system hasn't progressed, from material conditions, from increasing wages, from standards and students and teachers so let's not go, let's not go It's not good. [[Intruder: Thanks a good time, time.]] That won't fix the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96911	Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96912	Thank you, Chairman. Article 238 has been injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96913	Who, who, wait, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96914	Yeah, yeah, is this...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96915	What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96916	238, I accept I don't know anything. I really accept that. Because I'm stupid for your intelligence level. As far as focus goes, so I'm telling Mr. Mir, so Mrs. Wessney, the people in the system will evaluate everything you and I have said. [[But I, I'm sorry...]] Those who look forward to having the same goal, which is a better system. Dragging Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, withdrawing [[Intruder: Good, time, time.]] Injury. [[Intruder: Time, time of this time, time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96917	Time, you have a warning, you want to move on. Sir, please welcome Mrs. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96918	Thank you very much. So, I really do, given that this was more replicas than a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I really do need to respond, but very briefly again, with all due respect without any disrespect, of course people will evaluate and your colleagues in the system will assess what is going on and will assess progress. It takes years to make progress. Both you and I will comment on both younger and older colleagues and evaluate. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96919	. Thank you very much. Time, time...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96920	... This is a process, and the process takes time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96921	I didn't interrupt anyone, so I won't interrupt you either, but I have to give you a warning because you said it was a replica, and you're replicating it. Mr. Totgergeli, do you still have that need?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96922	I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96923	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96924	Thank you. The violation of Rules of Procedure 238, so I must admit that I'm appalled by the way you're even discussing it in HS, especially with 14 years of work in protest, with you as the headmaster of a school, I'd love to and would be happier if you didn't perform like this. But it's your style now, you're doing it for political reasons, not for those enlightening ones. Perhaps more to apply these educational and less political...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96925	.../Intruder Radin: Thank you very much./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96926	...maybe that'd be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96927	It was a replica, and it's the same warning. And you don't see what time it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96928	Yeah, he's hurt. 238. I thank you for your advice. Surely when they come from a man who has experience in all fields, I will certainly work on myself. I'm withdrawing the breach of my rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96929	Okay, here's a warning. Here from now on, and on the advice of the secretary of this session that I listen to in these things, and in my opinion, I'll interrupt if I see that replica. Otherwise it's a waste of time. Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic's individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96930	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. To say that the system has progressed indeed an insult not to the opposition parliamentary representatives, especially those who Mr. Kujundzic has 14 years of working experience in protesting among others and with the principal experience, but it is an insult to all those who work in the system today and have a lot of reasons for dissatisfaction. And will there be any reason for pleasure when the loan agreement comes into effect? I'm afraid not. In fact, it says nicely that the Republic of Croatia has a very ambitious reform and investment plan in the education system, and then we have several sources of funding for this, among other things, the NPOO, and then the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion. My first question is, did we plan something well with regard to the betrayal of these two funds why do we even need a loan? Each bank will grant the loan on condition that the agreed amount of the price and the agreed interest is returned, however, it is our business whether we are in a position to raise the funds we borrowed well allocate and use for the right purpose. So now these 15m euros that we have foreseen to adapt infrastructure to selected 50 pilot schools, I can say that I really am not sorry and that these funds can be considered justified. But the question arises, and what about those remaining 10? One thing is to strengthen capacity and here I agree with my colleague Radolovic that somewhere in the system we really have a lack of personnel and that we are missing some quality personnel, but it would be fair in this contract or some accompanying document then define where we have noticed that we have a lack of personnel and then tell who and where we will hire in the system, and also where we will see the unemployed surplus. But I don't think that was even an intensity. Of course, it's no one's goal is to raise the administration, and you'd even say it's not even the basic problem here. The problem is that in that part of the administration, so people who are in the system and want to contribute very often have a problem with nobody asking them anything, and it seems to me that from these 10 million euros to be used to design models, projects, protocols, evaluations that the smart knowledge and experience that only our existing system has will again be used, but some external consultants, external consultants, external services that, given their specific nature, will not often be covered by any public procurement process. And that's the cause and the fall of all the devastating reforms that have reportedly been trying so far and with these 10 million kunas, I think that's exactly what it's going to be. And here I see why besides these two already existing programs and quite financially generous, so NPOO and other Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion we are entering a new loan. In these first two financial sources, there are slightly more stringent spending control procedures. This loan, especially for these undefined services that we have absolutely heard nothing about, and we have no chance of reading it will never be controlled by anyone, and that is never my reason, and that is why I will probably be inclined to vote against the confirmation of this treaty, not to go into everything other MPs have said now, that we can't actually go into content, we can't change the parameters, we can't offer anything constructively, we can just vote it or we can't vote it, and there's always a reliable parliamentary majority for voting there. I only hope that we will have enough wisdom that when this loan comes into effect, and it is certain that it will, that we will come up with some internal control mechanisms and monitoring the cost of borrowed funds because it is known what it looks like when HDZ borrows something and to whom it lends funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96931	You, too. We're moving on to final discussions, on behalf of Mrs. SDP. Sanja Radolovic. I hope you don't get musculofibre from all the dating today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96932	I won't, but I'm extremely glad when you're running the session here. This is what I'd like to say in the final word and I'm glad that the secretary of state joined us because it's not very often to praise, but I'm just going to say that here the opposition, especially as far as education is concerned, does not want to be some kind of remethyling factor at least as far as the SDP is concerned. We will always support irregularities in the system of education and science, preschool education, we will always want the system to be better, that students, students, teachers, all staff get what is best from the system. I will just say that the SDP has so far supported and we have all voted together on the HKO Act, we have supported the first reading of the draft Law on Changes of Foreign Education Qualifications, we have supported the first reading of amendments to the Law on Professional Education and a whole series of other regulations in the field of education. So we don't want to politicize education, we just want to warn about things that don't work in the system. What we will be against, which they are probably aware of in the ministry itself, we were also in the first reading, changes to the Preschool Law and education that will soon come into the assembly benches and what is done is not good, and ultimately will suffer the most, suffer children and breeders. However, what I want to say is that we, as the SDP Club, will support the conclusion of this loan and we will support this bill. It's not good, and we wouldn't want the practice of getting the laws into emergency procedures. When this contract was signed on 16 December, and has to take effect otherwise, the whole of this contract and the agreement will be terminated, it must enter into force by 16 March. It is also not good to put that practice into force on the first day of publication in the National Journal even though we know that the practice is the eighth day. And I repeat, we are not sure how and how to satisfy the whole, the introduction of this whole concept of the day-to-day teaching model with these means alone, so 25 million euros and 2.28 billion kuna from the NPOO. We have seen from the very bases made by the World Bank that multiple resources are needed. And what worries us most is whether this component of those under the quotes of soft infrastructure will actually follow physically. In this sense, whether when buildings are built, schools, dining rooms, sports halls, libraries will be built, whether funds will be found from the state budget to finance and co-finance salaries and other material costs. We would also not like the cities that will apply to these competitions and counties that are founders of the mah of all more or less secondary schools to really make known these announcements that it will not actually be 100% NPOO financing and this loan, but that it will be aware of 60% co-financing on what I used to say that the ministry will actually treat them to be enough 1,200 euros per square and for equipment and for reconstruction, and in fact we all know that the situation on the market is such that some average of 2000 euros is needed because I don't believe that funds in cities and counties budgets will be able to find for such a thing, and I think it would be a shame not to use NPOO funds. We've seen from this loan that we'll pay an annual fee if we don't withdraw and use all the funds. Here I repeat, we welcome this, it is not our happiest solution to how you and the way you sent it into the process, we think that this could have been done much more skillfully and transparently, but we are pushing for a system of development of education and to withdraw as much funds as possible in order to free up resources in the state budget for what EU funds cannot be used.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96933	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Vesna Bedekovic on behalf of HDZ final, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96934	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Here is a very short one, so I will repeat that this is a project or loan for, between the Republic of Croatia and the World Bank for Reconstruction and Development, so 25 million euros, I will repeat again, so these are facts and should be stressed whether it is 10.5. 5 years old. so it waits and payoffs until, for the period from 2027 to 2032. What is important to note and to sum up is that the project "Croatian Meeting a Sustainable, Fair and Effective Education" aims to improve the environment for learning in selected schools according to the system of day-long teaching and to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Science and Education to expand the system of full-day teaching and implementation of sectoral reforms, and therefore this project is indeed reformal. It will take time, it is a process and we expect that through time, and through activities on this project you have seen in the materials, in addition to this bill that much will happen. And what might be further highlighted, so the project is also intended to create a full-day teaching model based on best European practices, on its experimental implementation in the 50th schools and their infrastructure adjustment for the new concept of school and the time students spend in it and certainly on the evaluation of the experimental implementation they will carry out as said the National Centre for External Evaluation parallel to national exams and certainly part of the activities will be designed to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Science and Education for the implementation of reforms. And what is important is to highlight the largest part of the loan will therefore be spent on adapting the infrastructure of 50 schools and conducting standardised exams. What I need to stress is that we really have in the period ahead of us the possibility of mobilising the largest amount of EU funds so far and this very government, the government of Andrej Plenkovic has proposed a really ambitious investment plan in the education sector. I would like to remind you that these funds are part of the total funds to be invested both from the NPOO and through the multi-annual financing system so that they will be invested quite largely. I'll just remind you of the NPOO in '21-'26. The amount added to this is EUR 2,280 billion for the transfer of these additional 30% students to one shift because we said earlier this 60%, and 30%, and of course the rest is planned to be financed from the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion. And on the basis of all this, so far here is the said Club of HDZ Representatives will certainly support this law and the adoption of this law, and we are confident that all this will happen in the coming periods and in the coming years will contribute significantly to improving the quality of the Croatian education system. And I join all those who are optimistic, but also those who are proud of our Croatian educational system that has its shortcomings, have its own drawbacks, but there are many good sides and I will join those who are on the national education system proud and aware, and realize that there is a lot to be done and that there is a lot to invest in, but without euphoria and without bitterness, because if we go after the heat, bitterness and We're not going to improve the system's attacks. [[Intruder Radin: Time, thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96935	Thank you, too. Mrs Katica Glamuzina, who will speak on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives or Social Democrats' representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96936	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Secretary of State, the remaining colleagues and colleagues. The loan, therefore, was already negotiated, agreed, signed, was only a formality for our debate today, so none of us today debated too much about the details of the loan itself because it would be useless. We at the Social Democrats Club will support him for the reason that we will support any investment plan in the education system and hope that, in principle and a deadlock of coke sometimes hits a grain, simply releases the amount of money and projects might still work. Instead of talking about concrete parts, the details of the loan because as we said, there is no more meaning, I will repeat a few of the appeals we consider in the Social Democrats Club relevant for primary school education. First and foremost, raise your salary to teachers. Many of them are asked, many of them are expected, large responsibilities are really important to motivate them and thank them with adequate wages, and what they have not now. Make education quality independent of geographical location because it is not correct for peers to have different quality of education depending on where they go to school. Provide more well-paid assistants in the children with developmental difficulties. Invest in mentors, remember that there are gifted children, write them adequate programs to provide mentors, provide them with engagement in areas where they are gifted and talented. In addition, help finance private organised scientific camps that really have enough to keep the costs of those children who are interested in them acceptable. One of these has been operating in Split for over a decade now called "The Summer Science Factory", not counting on funding from neither the city's budget nor the county budget, nor the state's budget, relying solely on cooperation with Professor Radman and with the MedilS Institute for more than 10 years with volunteers scientists working a week of scientific camp in Split for children from 10-18 years of age, finance them. Introduce civic education in all schools, introduce information in all schools as early as 1st grade. Stop trying to get children into the system, already make the system more flexible and reactive on the specificity of each individual child. Start public and financially valorizing exceptional school success as well as valorizing exceptional sports success, then maybe we'll have a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96937	Thank you, too. And the last club of representatives of the final Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS and Mrs Dalia Oreskovic. Other options I don't see for, no other clubs here present. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96938	Thank you, President. Before I got into politics, I always wondered how well this HDZ was getting by so... And now it seems to me that with this experience in these past two years I've seen how and I see why. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, without going into how the Center Party and the GLAS Party will vote on this, we will still consult, but I see that today there have been a lot of consensual tones on the opposition side who, in the hope that there will really be some kind of reform of education or, as my colleague Glamuzina has said, that and a deadlock of coke sometimes hits a grain, so that out of these billions and millions, I guess somewhere some funds will be spent, I think it's a bit of a vain hope. In this case, namely, every euro in this case, given that the loan is carrying its own interest and the responsible management of the state requires that we know well what these funds will be spent on. And we can't have these 15m euros that are intended for infrastructure being treated or we can't be satisfied with being just a fig leaf for the justification of a 25m-euro total contract. These 10 indeed seem to be unprepared at this point, as if not worked out exactly how and how this amount of funds will be spent. On these 10 million euros, our citizens, our taxpayers will pay certain interest, and we do not know if any of this will benefit anyone who really needs to be a beneficiary of the system and public services, not someone who is someone who's a friend from the Resort Ministry. That's basically what this is about. And the other thing is, if we're going through some kind of procedure here that's hurt so much, so isn't it absurd that everyone gets together, especially by those who run these sessions, we're upset about whether or not a net injury to the rules of procedure in order to replicate and get a warning, so that's where we're in a position to dive in, and that's because one of us is doing donkeys because we're being beaten up by a contract and a law in which we couldn't influence ourselves in any way, it doesn't bother anyone. So, if it really bothers us that we are not asked anything, that we are not respected, that we cannot influence a single provision and even if we say so, please explain to us what 10 million euros will be spent on, then it is really not correct and it is not responsible for Croatian citizens, so we will support this law in some kind of hope. Hope without control is very often very, very false and corrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96939	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary of State Stipe Mamic will speak finally. Which isn't just two terms of office that were said before, is it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96940	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. In this final report, he would try to answer some questions that he did not seem to be able to answer. The context of this loan is just one small wheel in the context of all these reform activities that were primarily drawn in the National Reform Plan in the NPOO and now the strategy that is coming out soon or I think it may have already come out in public debate and technical assistance from the bank, I can say that it has been very useful to us. In the past few more than a year, perhaps two years of great help brought us consultants from Denmark, from the Netherlands, from Poland, from Portugal, from Uruguay, we looked at this whole situation. Today in the debate someone said all the countries all day long teaching, it's also not true, many countries are just introducing it, some countries don't have what they have, they have one-way classes. The day-long teaching is a complex process in Germany has been succesfully increasing over the last few years the Germans have come from 30 to 40 percent so it's very important and I think it's socially useful and I'm very glad this debate today that there seems to be great support for the project all-day teaching at all levels. Of course, there will be a lot more talk about details because we didn't present the details today even though everyone would want to see it and I think it's very important that unlike many of the previous times of the seventh, the eighth time the DPS was adopted, so it's said in the next 10 years that all schools will be on one shift and we haven't moved. Why? Because there was no money, and these consultants asked why they decided on two, three shifts. So we didn't decide but simply neither the state nor then the cities, the local units didn't have enough money to build all these necessary capacities. And unlike many reforms, we are now in a situation that, in addition to being quite well-conceived, as we set out today, in many discussions, I must say that the European Commission within the NPOO has drawn up our reform at all levels in a very good way, and it is quite structured, starting from early preschool education that we will soon have the opportunity to explain to you because it seems to me that already in public and through some Facebook groups and various protests has not caught what matters at all in the draft of the law, and it solves many things systematically on the long term. It addresses the issue of long-term sustainability of kindergarten funding, resolves the issue of staff, addresses the issue of affordability for many births, etc., etc. The most important thing about this early preschool education is that we are now at some 79% of the coverage, that with these NPO interventions we will come to 90%, and with the additional location that we are planning from VFO that we will achieve a European goal that is 96%. Why is that so important? It is important that all research contributes to the achievement of all those children involved in early preschool education and education throughout their educational process. That is why it is so important, and that is why as a state, the central state has decided to finance and provide many funds for early preschool education, or a billion 620 just for investments plus many other interventions that will be presented to you in the draft of this law that goes into second reading. Of the day-long teaching models these 2 billion and 280 million kunas are really big funds because, as I would say, here is the fact that some MPs have been able to read the documents published on the World Bank's pages, that they have read the contributions of this, that the ministry has made a great deal of effort to publicly publish a lot of documents on its pages, so you can see a lot of data on our scheme, and soon we are planning new, pardoning, new versions of the scheme in which you will see a lot of interesting data and one who has a desire and will can also study and watch. The idea of this whole process of all-day teaching or school that it will already be going in this direction, it's too serious to bring the model overnight and lightly, so that we can run it overnight as a pilot project unlike some previous projects, to keep it appraised, so we can only trust one institution that would then say by the basis of some survey that it's all great, etc. So this is going to be piloted for four years, four years. the national centre will measure the effects and results compared to the control group. What's it going to be, what's it going to be? So surely there will be a criterion that urban and rural schools and large schools and small schools and by these attributes must be included, and we hope that everyone will apply. I would be overjoyed if the interest were greater than 50, but I remember that in some past periods it's hard to motivate people to apply to some new projects and newspapers, everyone would want to change, everyone would want to reform, but when that happens, there's a problem. So today's debate gives me optimism, I think, that there's this other than that width where we went very broadly and discussed some things that might not be important in this part to make some kind of change. So the big change is in that cycle, which is related to a lot of things in primary school, is also related to what we plan in the system of secondary education. Who, who read the NPOO, saw that we planned there to increase the proportion of high school students from 30 to 35 percent, round up the system of vocational education, better equip it, etc. Why high school kids? Because we are at 30% and the EU is at 52.5%, for example, Germany to 60% of high school students. And these are the things that are important for the flow towards higher education, or for quality or what MP Bakić used to say to us we don't have enough people in the technical field, they don't write down mathematics, physics, etc., so we won't have enough if we have a high school system structure like this if we don't increase the quotas of natural and mathematical high school. It's simply all the law of pooled vessels, as well as the reform of higher education, and in that sense we have this problem. As graduation follows the evaluation of work in high school, so we have the fact that children from vocational schools who make up most of our system at the summer graduation deadline, 82% go to prom, 68% pass, 62% enroll in high school from vocational schools. In Germany from vocational schools after a different year, 3% of children passed their graduation. These are the data that we analyse and which we are dealing with, which we are solving the structure and we want a modern European education system for which we have for the first time serious money available. So when you add up all these sources we have over a billion euros to do it in the next few years, not the next year, not the next two. And just a little bit about what this school thing is gonna look like. The ministry will not carry out any procurement procedures, the ministry will call out a public call to which power will be applied by all founders, founders of primary schools, so these are cities and counties, the evaluation will be carried out, after that evaluation a decision is made and the contract is signed and the ministry's work ends there. After that, they will have communication cities and counties with SAFU, justify procurement, justify the ZNSs, and we will provide funds to pay for it all together. And maybe one thing that happened several times today, and about this 1200 euros. Those 1200 euros are only valid for kindergartens. Why kindergarten? Because when we negotiated with the commission, we had to prove to the commission why we needed so much money for those 22,500 new places in kindergarten to reach that 90%. We called the Payment Agency, and we said then, a year ago, we negotiated it, not yesterday, a year ago, and we asked what the average cost of costing construction was in the last 10 purchases conducted by JLS. The average price of these last 10 purchases was 1,166 euros, we circled to 1,200. What happened on the market in the meantime, we see for ourselves, so you will see what solutions we have foreseen in this Law on Early Preschool in a second reading where we will help those who need help, who cannot handle it on their own. There are those who can solve it themselves, who have to lead what's their priority and what money invests in, if they can handle it on their own, then they don't need a state to help them. So it's nothing unusual, the acceptable cost is 100% for those who succeed within these gauges, but it depends greatly on your design of the project, depending on the efficiency, depending on what is an efficient design kindergarten. We've now made a full recording of the state that these projects are ready. There are projects programmed per child at 22-24 square meters, and the average of those that were done in the last 2 years. Is 9-11. We have consulted international consultants who have said that the 8 m2 garden is an efficient design of the net useful surface, and that is how we will allocate the funds. Whoever doesn't want to be efficient, who wants to have some kind of super standard that doesn't exist anywhere in Europe, so we have nothing against it, but that one will co-finance it. That was some idea. Finally, I would like to thank everyone for this debate today, thank you for these constructive criticisms and proposals, and I hope that there will be an opportunity for us to present this model to you soon, and then we will have to discuss it, and it will definitely have to be installed in the legislative framework because the amendments of the Law on Education and Education are also being prepared in parallel, in which we will have to open a framework for a long-term series of regulations that will have to be harmonised for the purposes of applying this framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96941	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met and we'll move on to the last item of the agenda today, excuse me, yes, yes, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83064	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns will speak the honourable representative Marijan Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83065	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, today on 10 March we mark the Day of Croatian defenders and defenders of the city of Vukovar. In memory of March 10, '91. the year and the assembly of the first unarmed squads for the former municipality of Vukovar near Vukovar, or Bogdanovac, under the leadership of Tomislav Mercep. The first commander of the Vukovar defense to hit the foundations of a successful defense. The Battle of Vukovar was the bloodiest battle of the Homeland War that lasted 87 days. It included 30,000 enemy soldiers from the Yugoslav Army, paramilitary Chetnik troops and numerous volunteers from Serbia, 1,600 armored combat vehicles, 60 planes, 350 cannons. On the other hand, according to the Ministry of Defence, the number of Croatian defenders has never been greater than 1,800. According to some military analyses on Vukovar, in 87 days, so many explosives dropped on an average of between 5,000 and 7,000 grenades a day, which is the strength of two atomic bombs. And Vukovar really looked like Hiroshima after the fall of 18.11. However, he became a winner because he made it possible for the rest of Croatia to consolidate its ranks, establish defences, and after the fall of Vukovar, the Serbian aggressor did not have any more significant winning actions. Unfortunately, the werewolf battle as well as the battle in this entire area of the former Vukovar municipality took 2,717 innocent victims to which defenders, which civilians. And today several hours ago, at the memorial cemetery, victims of the Homeland War had passed the delegations of the Croatian Parliament, the delegations of the county and city authorities were there and representatives of numerous political options except one. Namely, the local SDSS never showed up on Croatian Defence Day, the local SDSS was never in the 18.11. column, nor was it in any delegation when the weddings were laid for Statehood Day, any state holiday in the town of Vukovar. And that's what the Vukovars are hurting us. We are in pain because it is the same party sitting here across the street in the Croatian government, which makes the ruling majority, and has a completely different view of history than is official Croatian history. 30 years since the Homeland War, they still believe that the civil war continues to hold them as victims in Vukovar and continue to believe that the storm was ethnic cleansing. Unfortunately, these are today the ruling coalition, and they are sitting in various ministries today, and they have their own representative in the government of the Republic of Croatia as deputy prime minister. But not to deal with them this way, through all Croatian defenders and defenders of the city of Vukovar, I congratulate their day, and to all those who died and died, may eternal praise and glory be.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83208	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS will now speak the esteemed representative Marijana Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83209	I thank the chairman, here I am today as well as my colleague, to say that the Centre Party and Club of the Centre and GLAS will in no way support amendments to the Preschool Education and Education Act, which intends to abolish the state pedagogical standard. Two days ago in 53 Croatian cities, completely undetected in public, organised by the Sidro Association, 4 professional associations, 4 major unions, protested parents and educators in preschool institutions that protested precisely because of these changes to the law that abolishes state pedagogical standards, which significantly worsens the quality of services provided to children in these institutions. Here I will read a letter to the Parliament and to the Government by scientists and experts in the early and preschool education system, 22, expressing their disagreement with such a relationship with the profession and science in which the Institute of Public Advisory is used as a cover for the adoption of rules that represent a step backwards for the whole activity. So they say, in their letter, that I am responsible, therefore, to state responsibly that the proposal for legal solutions is not in line with the basic European documents which the Republic of Croatia is a signatories, whose early pre-school education and education is defined as the right of every child to access the quality RPO and the role it plays in establishing solid foundations for lifelong learning and the welfare and development of the child. The EU Parliament has called on Member States to improve quality and make available early and pre-school education, and to approach the problem of insufficient infrastructure, offering quality and available RPO services. The Republic of Croatia has responded to the call for the adoption of a bill that addresses the problem of accessibility by reducing the quality of the national system, although it is known that only high-quality early and pre-school education services function as a developmental assumption. Such an assessment is based on a comparative analysis of the proposed legal solutions with key European documents, in particular with the principles of the quality framework and early preschool education and education. Not in any of the 5 dimensions of quality, access, staff, curricula, monitoring and evaluation and management and funding, the new legal solution has made better solutions than the existing ones. In fact, many of the proposed ones are worse compared to current regulations, disrupting existing quality, not aimed at the welfare of children, and the last and long-term society as a whole. We highlight the provisions which are particularly worrying, interventions in the process of amending the national pedagogical standard of document adopted by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the decision of the competent minister, are justified by the concern that the overall working conditions of kindergartens will be used in particular with regard to the criteria for the number of children in educational groups as a tool for greater coverage of children by increasing their numbers regardless of the spatial and humane conditions. Secondly, the provisions relating to the curiculum are indivisible in essence and terminology, and rejuvenates the current official document National Curriculum for Early and Preschool Education and Education. The development of children is a specific and individualised process, and the curricula follows the interests of children and meets the unique needs and potentials of each individual child. Therefore, outcomes can only be referred to as the welfare of children, not as normative categories. Third, provisions relating to the possibility of permanent employment and primary education teachers and the possibility of obtaining the qualification of a university first-rate based on additional competences. The proposer's explanation that the provision of the necessary professional staff shows deep ignorance and demeaning of the teaching profession. We believe that the proposed document is far from an assumption of quality development in all aspects. The proposal is not based on contemporary scientific and professional knowledge, and the development capacity of early and preschool children is not in line with important documents in the European educational area and ultimately with the level of national theory and practice of the RPO recognised and recognised in the international environment within the EU, but also beyond. For these reasons, we scientists and experts say in the letter that we are working on in this part of the educational system we do not support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Early and Preschool Education and Education, and we expect from the legislators that will adequately monitor and continue to affirm early and preschool education and education, and we cannot reverse what has been achieved so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83348	Thank you. Thank you very much. Now we will stop by to discuss this point because 1 hour has already, here and gone and we will go to the presentation on behalf of representatives clubs and independent MPs and the first one on behalf of the Club of Representatives Mosta will speak to the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83349	Thank you. So it is clear that the entire public is, and so are we, with these discussions that we have had in recent days here in the Croatian Parliament, that we are focused on this Russian aggression on Ukraine and that it is mainly debated, but with this aggression our domestic problems have not disappeared and we certainly must not ignore them, here, we had yesterday the appointment of a new Minister of Construction. On the other hand, people from Banovina come to me, saying that torture is tormented by those direct accounts that the government has promised to settle, that they have great difficulties actually with the proof, then the settlement of those accounts remains the majority of people affected by the earthquake in containers, so inhumane conditions of life. These are living conditions, I don't know, in five or seven days, but they're not living conditions for a year or more. And we expect that, in that sense, although we did not support the minister and could give him a lot of information and that we had given him up in yesterday's debate, to make certain shifts, because as far as the renovation itself was concerned, nothing was done, and what was actually sadder was done, that the whole process was logistic, and that was done through the grandmother and uncles. Just as the government officials were setting up incentives for certain close companies or as they were setting up jobs, as he did, means Aladrovic, I mean Milosevic and Aladrovic the government's officials, but also what Ćoric was doing, for which he is being charged in the Krš Padjene affair, where he was actually accused by one of the main suspects that he was actually a taskmaster of that favor. We here as a parliamentary opposition will go with an initiative to recall these three government officials, I would thank this in all the clubs, the Club of Sovereigns, Focus, the Homeland Movement, the Social Democrats, who supported this initiative, I do not understand and can not understand the behaviour of part of the left opposition where SDP and We can!, therefore, I do not understand why, for which reason they do not want to do more harm to this government, can only assume that they are aware that they would go badly in the elections because the leader of that coalition is very bad, so Pedja Grbin and I hope that they will change their minds, otherwise we will realize that they are actually protecting the ruling for some reason, and here, the Social Democrats and others, Homeland, Movement, Sovereigns, Focus, Club means For the Right Croatia, all of us who have signed, this opportunity. Also, I would like to say that at this point, apart from these ministerial affairs, we are witnessing a situation where energy prices rise and food prices rise, and this price rise is not only conditioned by Russian aggression, we have had it before. It is also conditioned by these crazy measures of the pandemic, which have led to the printing of money to help all those affected by the crisis and we have therefore price hikes, and now the Russian aggression and.../incomprehensible/... this price increase has increased further and we are appealing to the government that this move that has taken by cutting excise duties only for poor 20 to 40 lips, to be a little more generous, to go into a much stronger cutting of these excise duties so that the prices for our citizens are acceptable, i.e. enough of these oil processing processes, because it is quite clear that the price of supply and what the government has frozen on petrol stations will be almost equalized. So here I call on all these problems to start solving, and I call on the left part of the opposition not to fear harm for the government and new elections, that SDP and We can! And those who hid under Peji's lap, here's Mrs. I call on the pulac to support this initiative, to get away from those who won't go very well if new elections come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83419	On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the time will be shared by respected representatives Arsen Bauk and MP Radolovic, first respected representative Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83420	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The presentation of his colleagues deserves one minute of attention to read what he said. Namely, he mentioned the SDP in the context of non-signing calls for three members of the government and the fear of elections, so because of the record, we only say that the elections are due to the disbanding of parliaments, not by trying to fix the HDZ government. They are irreparable to us, and I hope that after two failed attempts, colleagues from the Bridge definitely and irrevocably gave up repairing the HDZ. Together we have submitted an initiative to disband the assembly, it will come to the vote once, then we will vote together, and that will be a way to challenge the elections, not to try to fix or reconstruct the HDZ government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83421	My colleague Grumo has been hurt by the Rules of Procedure... and no, no, excuse me, first of all, will first speak the respected representative Radolovic. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] No, no, I mean I can't let someone go, I can't let someone go or I can't let go, I have to stick to the Rules of Procedure, please. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83422	I agree with you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to kill a little debate, unfortunately, but I have to stop the state school of the State Pedagogical Standard because I still think that politics is more important to amend the Preschool and Education Act, and what I want to say right now is that SDP will by no means support the abolition of the State Pedagogical Standard that it has just passed, and in fact what the government wants to do, and that is the Ministry of Science and Education, which is to bring a rule that will actually prescribe the number of children in educational groups and should be brought by the minister himself. We are aware that we leave room for manipulation, in particular what manipulation, now the State Pedagogue Standard determines that 12 children should be one raiser, but many institutions are not able to respect it and in fact 20-25 children are enrolled and most of their working hours are brought up when children are actually not able to attend preschool institutions, but are only able to deal with the fact that all children are 8 hours 9 a day as long as they come out unhurt. This is a harsh reality today of education, early preschool education and education in Croatia. This authority obviously did not take seriously when the first reading was a proposal of the Law on Changes in Early Preschool Education and Education when they had a protest of experts from the Sidro Association, they like to call on them to listen to the profession, to listen to the voice of experts. They have had opportunities from the Sidro Association, which is indeed a high-quality association in which a large number of experts in the field of Croatia have drawn up a proposal to amend the law did not adopt anything but those nomotechnical changes. The Labour Union itself in pre-school education and education of Croatia has recently warned and sent to all club representatives, which will in fact negatively bring all these amendments to the Law on Pre-school Education and Education. In particular, this is already the fourth proposal to amend the Preschool Education and Education Act, which has nothing to do with the text produced by the Working Group for the Amendment of the Preschool Education and Education Act. It should also be said that there is no respect for the legal procedure either, so this proposal for a final law that we have not officially come to was not at all a public consultation and has been substantially amended in relation to the first reading. This approach by the Ministry of Science and Education and the ruling towards our children is totally unacceptable and leads to the fact that workers in preschool institutions will work in even greater burden, and this approach will naturally reduce the quality of the educational process itself. What is required by the unions and all employees in the pre-school education system is equalising the level of wages, but not according to the model to adopt the coefficients of those lowest because we are aware that unlike the system of primary and secondary education where salaries are financed from the state budget today, our educators and other workers in the pre-school education system have a really unequal system of salaries, for example, in Slavonia they are 50% less paid than in Istria, in the city of Zagreb and this is something that needs to be evened. They keep saying there's no money. However, it is invested in defence, it is invested in their digitisation that we have seen on the "Softver" affair, and not able to provide funding for salaries in kindergartens, in this way actually disbursing the budgets of units, cities and municipalities, to enable it to invest in the very infrastructure of all educational institutions and, in fact, to increase the quality of the entire educational process. The SDP will strongly oppose the abolition of the state pedagogical standard and we will be on the side of the profession, and we propose this to the ruling ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83423	Thank you. A colleague of the Grmoi has been injured by the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83424	He's been injured. 238, a colleague named Bauk said the ministers' impeachments actually serve to repair the government. The number of recalls initiated by the SDP, it would turn out, therefore, that those who wanted to repair HDZ and government, and we all know that no minister was removed at the time the opposition launched the impeachment. So the Minister's recall can serve only harm to the ruling, and the real question is why Arsen Bauk, why Pedja Grbin, why Sandra Bencic, They don't want to hurt this government. [[Good. You know, you know yourself...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83425	That it's actually a replica of what my colleague Bauk was saying, so you get a warning. Uh, now he's going on behalf of the HSS Club and... And I see we'll start again with the nonsense, well, the respected representative Glavasevic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, what is he injured in? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83426	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He's been injured. 238, just two words, miles of km, and here, I deserve my warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83427	Yes, it is. You deserve a warning. The Honorable Representative, Bauk, has also raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83428	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I'm prepared for two warnings. Comrade Grmoy, this government is, the individuals in this government themselves, the Gomoi? My colleague Grumo, so this government and the individuals in this government have done themselves so much harm that you, me, Bojan Glavasevic, Marijana Puljak and Dalia, can no longer harm them as much as they have done to themselves. Let it be in the government that have criminal proceedings, so we better say it here than try to fix it. If they don't see it themselves, we can't help them either. Thanks for the heads-up. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83429	Of course, and it was a replica, so then you get a warning. You insist on my colleague Grumo?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83430	Commited art, injured art. 238, I see that my colleague Grbin, or colleague Bauk, would like to see me as the leader of his party because he lacks the coat of arms of initiative, and as far as this is concerned, just when the opposition initiates the impeachment, then Plenkovic will keep his ministers, anyway, that's what he said and there will be no replacement of those ministers, think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83431	Okay, and that's this, of course, replica and other warning. Arsen, colleague Bauk, let's not leave town, please. The respected representative Oreskovic has also committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83432	Art. 238, I can see they're sharing warnings, so it would be a shame not to give you one warning to me. But now they're joking aside, Mr. Grumey, there's something I wanted to say. To begin with, when your party president, at the moment of voting on the confidence of the new minister, joins in voting and votes against, only then may you be able to say something to the rest of the opposition that was always there until the early mornings when any opposition initiatives were launched, is now really enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83433	Okay. Thank you very much. This one and you know it was a replica, so you get a warning. This, fellow Grmoya, will be your third warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83434	It's so lame, I have no intention.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83435	So you're giving up on the Rules of Procedure? Nice to meet you. Dear Representative Selak Rasdic, do you want this same violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83436	Yes, ma'am. 238, I don't know if this was a threat, but I'm not afraid of men or women's threats. So, no, not yours, what's said is enough. [[No, I'm, I'm just asking.]] So this really did not exceed the constructive opposition action if an initiative was launched that everyone agreed on, such as the one behind the recall of the appointed ministers, then it would be logical to overcome the differences and sign it and put your own cheap political calculations aside, but unfortunately for this in Croatian society there is no maturity yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83437	Okay. And that, of course, was a replica, so you get a warning too. Are we clear on that now, I hope? Well, here we go. We can, we can let... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Bauk, come on, let's calm down. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HZD will now speak the esteemed representative Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83511	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues today, I will speak on behalf of the HDZ Club about a subject which many of us may have promoted, unfortunately because of the situation in Ukraine, but also because of the lack of interest in this topic, the topic of agriculture which unfortunately is not so attractive. As I come from the Golden Slavonia, our cereal, I know this is a subject that is very important to all of my inhabitants, but also to all Slavonian counties. In fact, at the time of the Covida-19 pandemic, the war conflicts in Ukraine, this is one of the most important topics for me. A theme that deserves our greater attention. We all swear and talk about agriculture, food production and its sufficientness. Prices of fertilisers on the European and world markets are significantly higher than, according to European Commission data in November 2021, 165% higher than the previous year and almost 20% compared to October 2021. The increase in fertiliser prices and further growth is caused by higher demand, increased imput prices in the production of fertilisers, restrictions in production, trade policies, supply disturbances, but also environmental policies that limit the use of fertilisers. The biggest increase in fertiliser prices is related to the rise in the price of the nitrogen component of fertilisers directly related to the price of gas which also records record increases in all markets. The European gas prices have been growing uncontrollably in the last half of the year and the average price of gas in Europe according to the European Commission in October '21. the year was almost 5 times the year before. But let's go back to agriculture. Of course farming is not easy or simple. Every year our farmers face various challenges. Natural disasters, colds, droughts, floods, and this year they are also struggling with rising and high prices of repromaterials. In order to mitigate price increases and help farmers, the government made a decision at the meeting yesterday on a programme for farmers to obtain mineral fertilisers, with a package of $4.8 billion to mitigate and increase energy prices. With all the measures the government and the Ministry of Agriculture have taken, this is certainly one of the most important for the preparation of the sowing. This is a package of measures that also provides for support for farmers and fishermen, to support small value farmers to obtain artificial fertilisers. The measure is estimated to cover 88,000 agricultural holdings, and the value is estimated at €200 million, while the amount is estimated at €75 million in fisheries. The aim of this programme is to ensure that agricultural producers continue to produce agricultural production in 2022 and are affected by the increase in fertiliser prices to ensure a certain compensation for the increase in fertiliser prices in order to ensure the retention of the current level of agricultural production in Croatia. Support for small value under this programme will allow for facilitating the management of farmers under unfavourable conditions resulting from a marked increase in the prices of mineral fertilisers and ensure that the level of agricultural production is maintained at least to the level of the previous year. Users who will be able to use support are agricultural producers enrolled in a register at the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development in '21. a year with agricultural surfaces of 1 hectare and more which on, which grow one or more groups of cultures of ratar culture, permanent plantations, vegetables, decorative plants or medicinal plants. These are not the only measures that this government and the resolution ministry have directed to our farmers and fellow citizens. Under the aid package, the government has launched a reduction in VAT on fresh products, fresh food, agricultural imputations. The government will do everything necessary to contribute to the food security of citizens and to enable Croatian farmers to work. Perhaps this is an opportunity for us to raise our agriculture to a better and more envious level, and for us colleagues and colleagues of Parliament to provide a better legislative framework and thus to give our pain in increasing agricultural production and to keep our young people on their land, on their grandfathers and fathers' land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83512	Thank you very much. This, let's play out on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, respected representative Zeljko Lenart will now speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83578	Here, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, I would only in the context of these violations of your Rules of Procedure only mention one term, a united opposition, which seems to be nonexistent and that we will never reach, too bad. But here I would discuss another topic, this time I would not talk about hunger, food, but I would discuss one term called energy, a war in Ukraine that unfortunately kills both the old and the young and the Russians and the Ukrainians and all those who go there to fight, but this war has made our country naked and has shown all the misery of these 30 years of ruling the Republic, the independent Republic, that after 30 years we have no food, and God we have no energy. We destroyed agriculture, but we also destroyed the management of production, distribution and storage of energy reserves. One of the major absurdities in the Republic of Croatia after selling the most significant energy company, which is INA, has another energy company called Croatia's electricity company. One of the greatest absurdities is that people, natural persons, and investors, entrepreneurs who want to invest in the production of electricity and solar panels encounter one such wall, one such obstacle by HEP, which should think about Croatian interests, and those who manage it and who dictate how HEP, solar collectors, production of electricity from renewable sources. And now here, look. Any one of you can be an investor. Those who have a house, those who live in a building, can leave electric panels on their roofs, i.e. solar panels, produce electricity from what comes to us every day for free, which is the sun. And then when you decide on one such project, and I've been thinking about it personally because I have a suitable roof for it, you come up with this information that HEP allows you to set up such capacity that is consistent with what you spend. In other words, HEP does not allow you to make money on solar energy production. Any normal state that encourages the production of electricity from renewable sources would solve this problem in an instant and allow anyone with a capacity of, say, 15 kW to produce these 15 kW, even if it will earn, but it produces electricity from a free source, but our country does not allow it. Approximately, if you have a war of 350 kuna, you can install 3.3 kW and have a capacity for 10 kW. My street called Stjepana Radića Street in Kutina has over 400 houses, none of them have a solar power plant and says HEP, no, you can't set up because we're not sure that our network can handle what you're going to be returning to the network. This is such nonsense that, if I were the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, I would have replaced the head man of HEP first, and then everyone else. Do we want it or not? And now we come to the fact that we're not going to have any energy in any segment. We won't have enough oil or gas. Here, we're already, we've already come to the point where we don't get coal for Plomin. So we're going to lose power generation that we're not producing enough anyway. This is one of the fastest ways to try to suppress the production of electricity from renewable sources, but no. Here. As I appeal often to the government to do some things in the agricultural portfolio, also, by a very simple decision in the government can make and change this situation that is happening in Croatia. So let the people who want to produce electricity and earn some money do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83608	On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, the honourable representative Emil Daus will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83609	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, except for our social and economic crisis. The European Commission is announcing a new plan that could reduce EU dependence on Russian gas by 2/3 by the end of the year and make it independent of Russian fossil fuels by 2030. On the other hand, Croatia has lost its energy dependence, or much less its dependence on import energy, a long time ago. And that is why we reiterate the importance of green policies, how important alternative energy sources are. Today, due to limited time, I will not touch the very important environmental aspect of how important it is for the environment, my focus will be exclusively on the energy and economic aspects. Well, first of all, it's the energy. It is clear to all of us that energy from alternative sources cannot now and immediately replace the energy obtained from fossil sources. The problem, of course, is that it needs to produce energy that would be enough for the necessary strength. But the fact is, we're actually lagging behind a lot of the developed world. In a country with so much energy from the sun, wind and water shouldn't do that. On the contrary, we must be leaders and therefore we must start running sprint, but we need a systematic approach and responsible policy. Systemic approach aimed at building hydropower plants, wind power plants preferably free of affairs, solar power plants and will further stimulate and encourage economic operators as well as households to install autonomous electricity generation systems. Not as modest as so far, but as one systematic approach to national energy policy that will allow for economically accessible investment in such systems to every economic operator and household, as this creates energy independence at least one part of it. On the one hand, large facilities that create energy security on the other hand and small systems that provide more economic and acceptable electricity to citizens. Let us not forget that much of our country is rural and that we should also take care of it. And here we now have another important issue, which is the domestic production of high-tech products that has no alternative in terms of economic development. Creating additional value in his backyard, especially through modern industry, is the best way to develop the economy. And there's an opportunity, you would dare say even an opportunity of a generation, but in order to produce certain components of high technology, to participate in the production of equipment for alternative energy sources, there is a need to create preconditions and there is an important policy, there is an important government, there is an important public sector as support. The abandoned state property of former factories, similar spaces that have long been devastated by building their own area, are part of the solution. This puts abandoned property into operation, we store a space that has not been devastated so far, the manufacturer comes up with the necessary space for its plants at more favourable prices. If alternative energy sources are a strategic priority, if our domestic production of equipment for these plants is a priority then all public bureaucracy is adapted to this, it speeds up all the necessary procedures to get the processes started as soon as possible. At the same time, the education system is adapted and is further stimulated by such activities. It is then additionally invested in scientific institutes, in higher education institutions that return to society invested through top specialised experts, experts who create new values in the community in Croatia, and not abroad, and such high-tech industry is also pulling back a number of other positive factors from a stronger knowledge society through development offices, development plants to the very products of high value competitors on the world market, and then we have the whole story rounded up. Then we have a system, and in order to have a system, we need to make a decision, a strategic, political decision that we expect because alternative energy sources are an opportunity for our generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83735	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of HNS, HSU and independent MPs will now speak the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u83736	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and an empty hall, but that's not why I'm not speaking with a lot of passion about this subject that I'm going to talk about. So yesterday a decision was made by the government to pay the so-called an energy supplement, a kind of social supplement for the difficult situation caused by inflation, such as the difficult situation for pensioners and code, during the pandemic, as well as for the covid supplement. Do not think that, regardless of what I am in the parliamentary majority, the result has been easy because the budget has its tasks and needs to prove the needs of the pensioners and will be paid as said in the decision. But public attention attracts something else, and I would like to talk about it because the essence and understanding of the pension system is in detail. In fact, the public's attention attracts one piece of information, the neighbours pay the pension allowance in Croatia and range from 1,000 to 3,400 kuna. Namely, the Slovenian Institute for Pension and Disabilities Insurance informed HZMO that this year it will pay an annual pension allowance for Slovenian pensioners with residence or residence in Croatia. The allowance will be paid under the Law on the implementation of the 2022 and '23 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. establishing the maximum amount of pension allowances from 140 to 450 euros. Now, what's the difference between our social supplement that we gave twice last year and we're gonna give it this year and this pension allowance? So our supplement is paid out of the RS budget and has censorships on total pension incomes. The peace allowance to be paid by the Republic of Slovenia is based on the payment of contributions, that is, so-called Their regression, the summer supplement. Therefore, their workers do not receive a tax-free regress and contributions, so their regress in the Republic of Slovenia is paid contributions from which they draw, draw funds for the payment of the pension allowance. The problem is that it is different from the pension only because the reverse scale has been distributed that those who have the lowest pensions get the most and that is why they are asking our pensions for data on the total pension incomes of their pensioners living in Croatia. So they'll get it, they'll get it in June, so in Slovenia, and our citizens will get it in September and it's their obligation to all their pensioners. Again, I am pulling the parallel with this supplement, if it is a social supplement, then you only give social supplements to your citizens within their borders with residence in Croatia. When you're giving a pension allowance based on a contribution bill, then you have to give it to everyone who's worked in your country for more than a year, and they're exercising the right to retire in another country. What is not clear to me is this, so depending on the amount of pension it is possible to achieve an add-on from 1,058 kuna to 1,400 kuna as published by the Slovenian Institute, the addition of most users will be paid by June 30th along with June pensions, and on the other hand, Croatia's customers can expect money by the end of September of the current year and forms will be published which people will have to fill out, etc. I'm asking a classic question here, in which age we live, in which age do we live in the Middle Ages? Can't pension Croatian and Slovenian do the simplest act of exchanging data on people living in Croatia and receiving a Slovenian pension so that people don't have to rob the counters at the time of the pandemic. Is that so hard? I'm giving the initiative. So let's get people moving, red tape, move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96080	Honorable MPs, esteemed MPs good morning. Before we move on to today's debate, there's only one announcement. As the fourth point, we will discuss the election, appointments and resolutions because one is a change in one of the delegations. The second thing is that I'm going to propose that we conduct a united debate on the first two points of the agenda for today. I am doing this on the basis of a proposal from the Legislative Committee. So I propose a united debate on - Proposal for a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of NATO's activities and strengthened vigilance in Hungary and - Proposal for a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the activities of the EU's permanent structured cooperation project "Cibernetic Teams for Rapid Response and Mutual Assistance in Cyber Security" - Are you in agreement with this proposal? Thank you very much. Then we'll have a united discussion. This Decision is proposed by the Government on the basis of Article 54 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Defence Act and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Defence Committee, so I will now ask for further explanation of the respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Mr. Zdravko Jakop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96081	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Last week, a Declaration on Ukraine was adopted in this House of Commons, which strongly condemns Russia's nothing-provoked aggression against its sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence, and the Prime Minister presented you with a report on the situation in Ukraine. The attack on an independent peaceful democratic state is a bitter reminder that freedom, peace, security, stability cannot exist if we are not prepared to defend them. A war on European soil, something we all thought was a thing of the past once again angry. The Republic of Croatia, like other NATO and EU members, strongly condemned this Russian aggression and expressed full support for the Ukrainian people. The current security situation in Eastern Europe is one of the most serious threats to European security over the past decades. All NATO members including Croatia are deeply committed to the continuation of diplomatic efforts and efforts of a peaceful and non-violent solution to the current situation. At the same time, however, it is clear that NATO is ready to defend all its Member States against any threat. Due to the increasing deterioration of the security situation in Europe at a NATO meeting, defence ministers on February 16th and 17th, as well as at an extraordinary NATO summit on February 25th of this year, the NATO member states decided to significantly strengthen their stance on deterrence and defence, and to strengthen collective defence capacity. In recent months, NATO has also spent additional generation of its rapid response forces. In the east of the alliance, additional ground and air forces were deployed, while new maritime forces were deployed throughout NATO. Part of the reinforcement was carried out within the framework of the existing battle groups of NATO-based activities of enhanced forward presence in the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Estonia. The rest of the reinforcements concern, among other things, the new struggles of groups forming in Southeast Europe, Hungary, the Republic of Slovakia, the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania. They will act under the name of NATO's enhanced vigilance activity and will be established on the basis of the same concept of multinational forces as the already existing NATO battle groups, activities of strengthened forward presence in the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Estonia. The Republic of Croatia has supported the formation of these new battle groups as part of NATO's increased vigilance activity. The Ministry of Defence, which includes the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, carried out a breakdown of the possibilities of Croatian participation and we proposed the engagement of up to 70 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, in accordance with the Defence Act, it is proposed to the Croatian Assembly to decide on a decision that, within the framework of the battle group led by Hungary in 2022 and 2023, up to 70 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, with the possibility of rotation. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia will further develop their capabilities by participating in this NATO activity, increase interoperability with the forces of other Member States, and contribute directly to strengthening, deterring and collective defence of the North Atlantic Union. In addition, the Republic of Croatia reaffirms its commitment to implementing allied decisions and continues to build both international credibility and political and military credibility within the Union. As regards the proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in activities under the project of permanent structured cooperation of the EU cyber-response and mutual assistance teams in cyber-security, I would like to say that the decision of the EU Council of 11 December 2017 established a permanent structured cooperation or we often call under the name PESCO in which.../incomprehensible/... the participation of 25 EU Member States that have been jointly planning, developing and investing in joint capacity projects and thus improving the operational readiness and capacity of the armed forces. In accordance with the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decisions of 9 November 2017, Croatia has joined continued structured cooperation as part of the EU's common security and defence policy. One of the projects in which the Republic of Croatia participates and participates in several of them is the project cybernetic teams for rapid response and mutual assistance in cybersecurity. The Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in the framework of the project was signed in March 2020, right in Zagreb during the EU Council Presidency. In addition to the Republic of Croatia, the project also includes R. Lithuania as the leading country, R. Estonia, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, R. Poland and Romania. The aim of this project is to strengthen the capacity of cyber defence at European level, as well as to strengthen its own cybersecurity and the capacity of the countries participating in this project. The project itself includes exploring procedures in the area of cybersecurity in the EU, organising cybernetic exercises, simulations of cybercrisis and development of cyber defence tools, and the additional value of this project is the engagement of human resources that develop abilities and expertise. The Member States of the project shall appoint one representative in the CERT Council who, in the event of receipt of a request for support, shall make decisions on the activation of the team. In the event of a Council decision on the activation of the team, an analysis shall be carried out of the requests, needs and support options and shall be carried out in each participating country, the modality decision, the concrete contribution of the team's participation or the implementation of another form of support. The rapid response teams and mutual assistance in cybersecurity shall consist of experts in cybersecurity of the Member States participating in the project. The participating countries are changing on an annual rotational basis as team coordinators. Romania is currently coordinating the team. Depending on the conclusions of the team support analysis carried out, the team may provide support to the physical presence, and if the security of the members is ensured, or, as we all know, this can be done in a remote way. Teams have the ability to take preventive measures to assess cyber vulnerability and effectively use state and institution resources in strengthening the resilience of cyber-hazard management. We are witnessing an increase in cyber attacks on critical state infrastructure, and this area is certainly one of the domains of which will continue to grow and, accordingly, need to strengthen the capacity of resistance to cyber-hazards. This is also recognised in the Strategic Compassion, a document agreed at EU level at the final stage, in which the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs informed representatives and representatives of the HS several weeks ago at a joint session of the three parliamentary committees, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on European Affairs and the Defence Committee. In order to further strengthen the contribution of the Republic of Croatia, the European and national capacity to strengthen the resilience of cyber threats and cooperation with partners under the Defence Act, it is proposed to the HS to make a decision which, as part of the activities of the EU Permanently structured cooperation project, cyber-response teams and mutual assistance in cyber-security, in the rapid response team and mutual assistance in cyber-security, proposes up to 5 members of the OSCE. Activities under the project shall be carried out in the countries participating in the project, other EU Member States, institutions, bodies and EU agencies, EU Common Security and Defence Policy missions and other related activities and partners. The financial resources for the implementation of these decisions are secured in the state budget in the division of the Ministry of Defence. Dear MPs and representatives of HS, please support the decision-making process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96082	Thank you, Secretary of State. Now we'll start with the replicas. The first one is a colleague, Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96083	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. You yourself have said in the final presentation, and it also says in this Proposal for a Decision, that the financial resources are secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and 2023 at the division of the Ministry of Defence. I would like to know exactly how much the funds are involved, i.e. what the financial structure for implementing both of these decisions looks like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96084	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96085	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here, I'm going to set an example for those up to 70 people in Hungary, 38 million kuna, so that's not such a scary point of this, when we talk about how much it should be for those people who are involved in these projects. far less. [[Intruder: Comrade Bačić.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]] The only question is which equipment will be needed if we want to increase the ability of these teams. There may be a price going on higher, but it will also depend on the challenges that will be put before him.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96086	Comrade Bačić Ante, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96087	I thank the Honorable President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is now the hacker attacks today and the greatest threat to NATO's alliance and we see in the 21st century, it is often the first stage of any aggression and do not give God war and the threat of such species to one member can endanger the normal, entire NATO alliance. We must stress here that in 2021, a single exercise was held in Croatia, and this is NATO's biggest Cyprus Coalition exercise involving 34 countries, over 1,000 participants, and it is important to stress this is not only a defence sector problem, there were also colleges and the Ministry and others, other institutions that are private, which I am publicly interested in only your position i.e. analysis of the ministry itself based on this exercise as much as Croatia as the state of cybersecurity when we see and own cyber infrastructure and possible attacks tomorrow. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96088	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96089	Thank you very much for this question, Your Honor, I will just say that not only in this exercise, we participate in more exercises, not only this team, but also the structures that are in the Ministry of Defense, but also the other structures that are involved in the system. We would all like to have even more quality equipment and even more quality people and even more of these people, but they can only say that these activities or these threats are on a daily basis and that so far we have managed to respond to this in time and protect all data and not tell the institutions. So here we are talking about the number of people who would be involved in a concrete project of PESCO. We certainly have more people and greater abilities at national level.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96090	Thank you. Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96091	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, we are sending a smaller contingent of the Croatian military to Hungary, but not as a threat to anyone but as a measure of return, as a measure of solidarity with our allies on the eastern border of NATO. And it's important then to say that NATO's expansion caused not war in Ukraine but Russian aggression. The concept of creating a Russian world. The concept of creating a Russian sphere of influence. Had it not been for the expansion of NATO, perhaps today we would have seen a war unfortunately in the former countries of the Warsaw Pact. Perhaps in Poland or Hungary as it was in the end line and in '56. That's why NATO enlargement was, in fact, the expansion of a security zone where Croatia entered, where we must be solid. We must simply take our obligations very seriously, but it is an obligation to defend peace and to defend the international order.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96092	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96093	Thank you very much for finding out, I have nothing to add here, and I would just like to say that NATO is a defence organization whose members and we have to contribute to the goals we have practically entered and that we are in NATO organization.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96094	Comrade Saturday, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96095	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, you mentioned in your statement that there is a possibility of rotation in Hungary as part of this strong vigilance of NATO. What it really means for those first ones of ours, if actually there was this replacement rotation within these, this and next year that's on.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96096	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96097	Thank you very much for this matter, Your Honor. Rotation means there won't be the same people practically these two years and so on. Our years of international experience gives us this, let's say, the ability to estimate at what time interval and how it is best to rotate that structure of people. Whether it's all at once or in phases and so on, it means essentially rotation no. Yeah, not to bring it, we haven't asked you here to conclude that it's 70 since the beginning of 2022. We're already in '22, '23, but we're giving the Department of Defense an opportunity. To the armed forces to assess in some way even though we have assessed along with the Armed Forces which are part of the Ministry of Defence which would be the most favourable structure for this task of vigilance at the moment but in order to allow for this change or change in these inputs So it can rotate. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96098	Thank you very much. Comrade Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96099	We will support this motion for a decision, but with one feeling of dissatisfaction, we feel that it is not well explained. Two things are missing. What was missing is also missing in missions reports in the Baltic countries and Poland, which is a risk assessment. As a legislator, we as people who will raise our hands to send our people into certain dangers must know whether this mission today is low, medium or high risk. That's the minimum you should have given us. The second lacks a geopolitical explanation of the context. I would particularly like to hear from you today about what was happening with Hungary and what was Hungary's view on the new NATO troops on its soil in the first place. I would like to remind you that six days ago, the Hungarian foreign minister said that Hungary itself can defend its borders and that no additional NATO troops are needed. While three days ago they eased their stance, Hungarians said Monday they could do NATO, but only West of the country, west of the Danube. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] These are things you should have told us and explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96100	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96101	Your Honor, here I am going to say thank you for asking because it gives me the opportunity to answer this. It may take a long time, but I said in the opening section that this decision is to propose itself to the Croatian Parliament, i.e. All of you brought here in cooperation with the Armed Forces. I personally had the privilege of, to explain both the risks and the analysis of what and how we are doing so as to make sure that this is the best proposal that is currently in force because, in the opening part, I also said that there were other options because in other parts of the battle group of the forward presence. So here we are, taking care of the risk assessment, but also this geopolitical one. the position which, to which it would [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Unit i.e. The team acted. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96102	Comrade Deur, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96103	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, here today is the Day of the Croatian Defences of Vukovar, and we know under what circumstances the Croatian people have defended themselves in the threats they were at the time, today we have a similar situation in Ukraine and given all the threats that today in Europe the Croatian Army is the most powerful family in the world with which we have today's abilities, which are Croatian funds, the government has recognized the possibilities and all that is happening to us, please try to explain the abilities of the Croatian military today, because sometimes something that we didn't even have in our subconscious. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96104	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96105	Thank you very much for this esteemed representative, and then I'll use the opportunity to congratulate the Vukovar defenders on their day, basically our day and say that, that it's only good that today in a different situation than we were at the time when we had no weapons, no people, no organization. Today it is we who are members of both the EU and NATO that can participate, we were once recipients of international assistance and of this international mission, now it is those who actively participate in these organisations so that it is only a guarantee that things have changed and that we can count on Article 5 and collective security, but also the level of capabilities of the armed forces has increased drastically compared to earlier in the sense that, that the Armed Forces are ready to defend the territory of the Republic of Croatia, to participate in international to operations and contribute [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Civil structures if necessary. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96106	Please, Secretary of State, let's hold on for a minute. Here you are, Simičević, a colleague of Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96107	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, yes, not long ago we were alone, and we had an armed rebellion of Serbs and Chetniks and we barely actually succeeded, only thanks to the courage and loyalty and Croatian defenders from Vukovar, whom I also congratulate the day on, today we are in the NATO Alliance community and now we need to respect the international agreements we have signed. We need to be credible. It's not easy, it's not easy to send your sons, brothers, parents into armed conflicts, but if we've signed certain contracts, we just have to act like one. And that's the only guarantee that we're going to keep, preserve what we've acquired because we're living in a crazy world of crazy leaders who don't actually survive from anything to actually go into armed conflicts, and in the end it's never seen that well brought armed conflicts only death, blood and ruins. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96108	My fellow Simičević, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96109	Thank you very much, I agree with you that we should be credible about this and support the joint decisions made. It's one of them, but it's also the way we can maybe if we were in different circumstances we could possibly be different, but this is an assessment in line with the risk assessment and the possibilities. It's not always about what you want, it's about what's important and what you can't. And we've estimated that we can do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96110	Comrade Pavić Željko, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96111	Thank you very much. My dear secretary, here's to taking the opportunity to congratulate the Vukovar defenders on their day, and then the cybersecurity issue. We're a small country here, which has about 60 thousand IT's and that's quality experts. A large, enviable number of these experts actually came out of either the Armed Forces or were educated in Armed Forces schools so that we can say that these are certainly quality people and know the subject, the problem. To defend itself, to defend this cyberspace needs to be well-known and hardware infrastructure and it needs to be well-acquainted with protocols. Now my question is now, I haven't realized, I haven't actually found any data anywhere, whether at Union level it intends to unify equipment that will then be protected and defended or thought to diversify it because in fact these attacks of this would in some way be reduced in a different way.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96112	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96113	Thank you very much for this question. I'll try to answer very briefly. This project under PESCO is for a number of countries. One of the objectives and tasks of this project is the unification and ability to work on other people's equipment. That's what I said to this, and that's one reason why that man who's in uniform can cross the border, and that's why we ask you to support that decision. But in the opening part, I said that not only are the countries that are members of PESCO and who have formed this group and this project but are also working for other EU institutions, and through this these interoperabilitys are essentially being extended to others. It would be the best thing you've said to be unique, but so far it's not no.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96114	Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96115	Dear Secretary of State, here I join the congratulators and defenders of the city of Vukovar for their day because today we remember the assembly of unarmed troops near Vukovar, near Bogdanovci for the former municipality of Vukovar under the leadership of the first defence commander of Vukovar Tomislav Mercep, all of them with great gratitude, and all the dead thanks and glory. My question is how many Croatian soldiers are currently outside Croatia's borders in various international missions under the auspices of the UN within the NATO alliance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96116	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96117	I'm glad you reminded me of the unarmed squads and I was one, not in this one you mentioned but in one other, it was such a time of this because I believe that it's kind of harder for all of us, and also, and in some ways, it's easier to figure out what's going on in Ukraine, and exactly they're answering 181 is currently not in different. So we have missions, missions, one part is in the UN, one in the EU is the most in Kosovo in KFOR, that's 141. It's not that much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96118	Comrade Ivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State the importance of Croatian membership in NATO in these complex geopolitical times is unquestionable and this formation of battle groups in which we will participate up to 70 soldiers speaks absolutely in favour of the fact. But whether the Ministry of Defence is considering, and in accordance with the legal opportunities it has for the people of the Republic of Croatia to prepare in a certain way for all that is happening in the area around us who, let's be honest, are not so far away from the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96120	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96121	And look, this is how I'm going to try on a respected MP to answer for a soldier, a professional soldier, the Ministry of Defense of the Armed Forces has no day, no night. So there is a need to stay awake 24 hours a day this 365 days a year to think as best and most efficient to respond to all the challenges with this analysis being done and monitored. So there is this possibility of a system of increasing power through the reserve, the law also allows civil military cooperation, etc., so that there is no degree of readiness at this time, but the reflection of both this activity and the task certainly is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96122	Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96123	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I have a question about this second point, and it's about cybersecurity. So, with a decision of up to five members of the Armed Forces will be involved in teams, what I'm interested in is another story. So the cybersecurity to deal with it is I would say something that is a terribly big challenge, something that we should deal with and something that has now proved to be really important. Whether there are some, so at ministry level, maybe some funding for young people's education at certain universities or not I know of some postgraduate studies or studies outside to be sufficiently and adequately trained. These are the things and these are the changes that happen in real time from day to day, and I think we should be prepared for that to be one of your ministry's tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96124	Here are your answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96125	Dear MPs, I will answer you that this is something that we do every day because if we don't do it, we wouldn't be able to give in to international activities a certain number of people. We'd like it to be more, and it might be even more, but in this assembly, but I don't think you were one of the ones who made the proposal, I think that when the amendments were 4.1 billion, the defence ministry budget would be reduced I don't know how much money we'd have left for such activities. But we just found it and it's our suggestion that this number of people be referred to.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96126	Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96127	Dear Secretary of State you can tell us who else is with us in a group in Hungary or under the direction of Hungary this and the other personally I believe that at this point this is not a high-risk mission, however, as we will take care of God forbid this wounded and do not give God to the dead, we have one in that mission of the late Briscoe and several wounded. Do you have a vision that with some special program we have the Law on Croatian defenders, but what can happen is what you predicted for the victims of such NATO missions, how to treat these are military missions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96128	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96129	Being a soldier is always a risk. So we tried to make a suggestion that was least risky. You were on a parliamentary committee where I might have talked more specifically about the composition in the proposed composition that would look like this today. That's why I thank you for the matter of rotation, the possibility of this preparation or response in accordance with, with, with the requirements. It hasn't been built to the end of this, this unit of this, this one in Hungary so I can't answer you correctly. So we didn't ask here to give us permission to go for it tomorrow because these are the things that are still being negotiated and not defined until the end of this. But here's only for the morning information I spoke to the Chief of Staff. to prepare for this, too, because he was in Hungary yesterday. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And the activities are basically done. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96130	Comrade Shashin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96131	Dear Mr President, honourable state secretary, colleagues and colleagues, it is a fact that this aggression on Ukraine has practically surprised all EU members, regardless of what has been followed by this situation alertly and if in this difficult situation, we can say to the terrible situation that this has happened is the fact that this awareness of all EU members has increased on the need for common defence and the only way, the only possibility of common defence and so on in the Republic of Hungary. Of course, this calls for further efforts, above all, by all financial members, so I wonder if the resources provided for by the State budget of the Republic of Croatia are sufficient in this new situation for the needs of the Armed Forces. We know, we remember that individual parliamentary representatives, when voting the budget, advocated or sought a significant reduction in the budget for the needs of the Armed Forces. So now I'm interested in the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96132	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96133	Those of us at the Department of Defense would always love it more. It's the same as the home budget, but it's never been more than it is now. So we also recognized certain risks and needs before this unloved situation occurred in Ukraine. So the current budget of the Ministry of Defence is the highest so far 7 whole, just over 7.27 billion that covers a certain level and development, but I hope that there will continue to be understanding in this home for the needs of this Armed Forces and their readiness because a lot of it depends on financial resources as well. We all like to boast and say that the most important, most important man is heart and willingness to defend to the end of his homeland, but should also have resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96134	Comrade Karlic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96135	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here, first of all, I would like to join my colleagues' congratulations to the defenders and defenders of Vukovar, their day, and by the way, I would like to congratulate the Minister of Defense's birthday, which is the minister, so today, so here, I wish him a lot of success in his work. Here, it's already been said several times how important it is that we are a NATO member, especially right now, and I don't think that anyone is challenging and armed forces with such activities, departures and joint participation in others... In any case, they strengthen both their strength and their defence readiness and credibility this, as a state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I'd like to hear from you, given that there is still some thinking in the public section that perhaps we, here, are driving or sending Croatian soldiers to NATO, what is the interest of our Croatian soldiers? I've heard in the conversation that they actually want to leave, they can't wait for us to grant it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96136	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96137	We rejoice on one side, for that reason because it is not a problem, that interest is far greater than the possibility of these fills of these places which I'm numerically just before, far, far greater because through such a mission, not only that the system has certain benefits in terms of intraoperability,... etc., of this, these are certain challenges, a man for it and becomes a soldier to act and work as a soldier, and such an environment gives him that possibility, so that interest is far, far greater than, and we must take into account this and the national interests and our capabilities and capabilities of the armed forces, national needs, etc., so that we must be, thinking as many people of this, send over, i.e. ask your permission to go on international missions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96138	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96139	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I think it is important to send today a message that participation in the defence alliance for the Member States of that alliance is important. But it can only work if we all send a message together to threaten any of us together and we are ready to act and protect our partner because if such a threat happens to us tomorrow, then we are going to ask for this kind of assistance and this kind of support, and if we are not ready to support each other, then tomorrow we will be able to ask that other one to support us and that is why Croatia's participation in this mission is extremely important, but let me ask you two very specific questions. First of all, how many of our soldiers are currently participating in NATO's battle groups along the border towards the Russian Federation and secondly, can we expect an increase in that number in the foreseeable future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96140	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96141	Well, I thank you for this first part, and I have absolutely nothing to add to that. As far as exactly, I said in general a very small number, on the fingers of one hand we can count what is currently in operations, meaning what is a little closer, so I won't say negligible because no human life, no human being is negligible, no. Second, so none will go without your approval, means this. ... That's why we made a proposal specifically for this operation by 8:00. I would like to, and I believe that all of you here in this hall, that there is no need for these numbers to increase, I think that we would all be the happiest that it is, but we have to have different options, this and be prepared for different options. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96142	Comrade Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96143	Thank you very much, Mr. President of HS, Mr. Secretary of State, so today's decision-making and debate on sending 70 soldiers in NATO's wake-up forces to Hungary, I would say requires this debate which can also be caused by the brutal aggression the Federation of Russia has made towards Ukraine. Is this just enough or given the significant worsening of the security situation in the environment, and in our neighborhood, public support is happening to Russia's aggression on Ukraine, whether our classy reserves, homekeeping can do exercises, equipment, and anything in order not to give God's moments of need to be ready? for further activities? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96144	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96145	I believe and I will repeat that I would like to, and I believe that everyone here should not reach a system that would.../incomprehensible/... or ask for an increase in the strength of both NATO and national level, but the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces have a systematic... The forces that include the ones that you've listed, so hopefully that won't happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96146	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96147	After these questions asked by colleagues where we didn't get an answer about some assessment of how many demands will be made for sending additional armed forces to different missions within NATO, I am interested in whether there are any security assessments given the unstable environment in the region itself, how many members of the Croatian Armed Forces and all other forces, on the basis of what is mentioned by this fellow Djakic, we need him here in the Republic, given the unstable environment in the region?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96148	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96149	The number of members that Croatia has, the Croatian Army has, is sufficient to respond to all tasks defined by the Constitution and the law, so here, I think I responded, and systematic... There is no, but it is not true that there are no additional requirements, additional assessments, both at NATO level and at national level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, I may have, I say, spoken in more detail on the Assembly Committee about where members of the Assembly board could be and directly familiar with those who are obliged to work, not only for the national level but also for NATO.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96150	Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96151	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State. The security situation in Eastern Europe has been the worst in decades. Of course, the EU and NATO are trying to have a diplomatic impact on the calming of the situation, but it is also quite clear that it was necessary and necessary to send their forces to Eastern Europe, it now seems to the southeast of Europe where Croatia will participate, but as already several times in recent days, the security situation in the environment, especially in those neighbouring countries that are not NATO members, is worrying about Russia's major influence, the growth of radicalism and nationalism. The SOA chief also said something about this, so the issues that come from the representatives where we express some concern and we further ask if we are ready for all the challenges that await us, I think they are justified. My question is, will the additional NATO forces be needed in Croatia because of the security situation in the environment?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96152	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96153	Excuse me, last word, will it be? No, I don't. [[/Adversity President: Needed in Croatia. Here you go.]] That option is not being considered, so I will be very specific, but this one, I would like to say that we are following the situation, so both in the neighbourhood and in Southeast Europe, and we are NATO members, so we have information in that part and there is no need for concern. At least now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96154	Last line, Comrade Brkan, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96155	Dear Secretary of State, given the war in Ukraine and the open aggression Russia has made in Ukraine, it is also in our interest that Croatian Armed Forces be as equipped as possible, as qualified as possible and as ready to defend our country as possible, whether it is land, air or navy. As you yourself have written in the reasoning of the Decision that new combat groups are being formed within the framework of actively strengthened vigilance where the main headquarters has proposed 70 members to further develop their abilities, increase interoperability with other countries' forces. How has this number of 70 members to be sent, is that some extent, have given so much to other countries, so will we, or can that figure possibly be increased to get as many Croatian soldiers as possible to gain these additional capabilities in co-operation with NATO forces? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96156	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96157	Your Honor, I thank you very much for this matter. It's up to 70, we'd say what, I said intro, I wish it was more, but it didn't come to mind, so it's in collaboration with this, NATO members and the assessment, but also our options of this moment, there's been that number. As for that element, what you said, equipped, normally, here, someone who comes from that mile, it's good to have a good tool, so this one, so please continue to support this High House when there's going to be a budget debate, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96158	I thank the Secretary of State, you can return to your post because the replica is no longer available, so now I call on the committee's rapporteurs, will they take the floor? Yeah. The chairman of the Defence Committee, dear colleague Vidovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96159	I would like to thank the President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, dear colleagues. Therefore, the Defence Committee held a debate at its 20th session held on 9 March 2022 on the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of NATO's enhanced vigilance activities in Hungary and also on the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in activities under the project Permanently structured cooperation of the EU, cybernetic response teams and mutual assistance in cyber security. In addition to the proposals for a decision, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also submitted a decision on the prior consent of the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Supreme Commander of the OSCE. The Committee discussed the proposals in question on the basis of Article 1(2) of the Rules of Procedure. 71 HS’s Rules of Procedure as a home working body. At a meeting of the Committee, the proposer's representative said that in response to the emergence of new security threats and the strengthening of instability in Eastern Europe, Member States agreed at a meeting of NATO defence ministers in February 2022 on the need to strengthen border protection, collective security and NATO defence. The establishment of combat groups in R. Poland, R. Lithuania, R. Latvia, R. Estonia is particularly witnessing the establishment of a strengthened front presence of NATO forces on the eastern wing of the Alliance that activities are carried out solely to deter and strengthen collective defence. The further deterioration of the security situation in Eastern Europe is one of the most serious threats to European security in the past decades. In response to the new threats in Europe, NATO has deployed additional forces in the East of the Alliance in the framework of existing battle groups and groups of strengthened fronts, to ensure further strengthening of the Allied, Disabilities and Defence, it is proposed to establish new additional NATO combat groups in central and Southeastern Europe, i.e. Hungary, R. Slovakia, Romania and R. Bulgaria, which will carry out activities in parallel with NATO-enhancing activities. The Republic of Croatia supported the proposal to establish new NATO-enhancing battle groups, the proposed Decision proposes to refer up to 70 OSCE members, with the possibility of rotating Hungary in 2022 and 2023 under the Hungary-led battle group. During the debate, the Committee members asked about the impact of participation in this activity on Croatian defence capabilities, in this respect it was pointed out that the participation of the OSCE in this activity will improve further development of capabilities, increase the level of... with the powers of other Member States and contribute to strengthening the deterrence of both national and collective defences. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously, with 11 votes to support both proposals and decided to propose to the HS to adopt a Decision on the participation of the OSCE as part of NATO's enhanced vigilance activities in Hungary and also, the Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in activities under the cybernetic, permanent structured EU cooperation, cyber-response teams, mutual assistance in cyber security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96160	I'm opening a debate now. The first is the club of representatives of HSLS and reformers and respected counterpart Klasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96161	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, distinguished secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The NATO defence ministers' meeting on February 16th and 17th and the February 25th extraordinary summit found that the current security situation in Eastern Europe has been one of the most serious threats to European security since the end of World War II. Since its draft in 1949, NATO has successfully protected all its members off, thanks exclusively to the idea of collective defence, with its deterrent power, NATO has secured 77 years of peace and prosperity in Europe. NATO is ready to defend its members against any threat, so over the past months it has spent additional generation of rapid response forces and has deployed additional forces in the east of the Alliance within the existing battle groups and groups of strengthened frontal presence and is also seeking to establish additional combat groups in Southeast Europe. Farthest contribution has been made by the American forces this time. NATO is caring for the security of nearly a billion people from its members, and therefore new threats have been triggered by a significant increase in strength. Therefore, additional financial investments are needed to defend all NATO members in order to maintain a NATO defence system consisting of a combination of the latest armed systems and platforms and training forces for joint growth without delay. The NATO Alliance and the Alliance of Values, which includes individual freedom, human rights, democracy and the rule of law, these common values are the basis for what NATO actually defines and how it works. The future of defence reform in the Republic of Croatia must be determined by adapting its defence systems, tasks and obligations arising from Croatian membership in the NATO Alliance. Alliance members will have to transform their entire security system in such a way as to be able to organise defences against new security threats to their own forces and in their own territory. It is important to encourage countries to also negotiate private military and intelligence services, as the United States and some other NATO members do. In the future, we can expect to redefine NATO's military criteria, and in line with the requirements stemming from the current transformation of NATO. NATO membership also covers all obligations under the Article. 5 agreements that the attack on one member is an attack on all allies. We cannot agree to attack countries in Europe with weapons, not to attack civilians in a non-discriminatory manner and to change borders by force of occupation. We have an obligation, in the event of an attack on the territory of NATO member states. The fact that Croatia is in such geostrategic space, that the collective defence system is a very useful thing, participation in NATO and the EU is crucial for Croatia. Otherwise, we would be condemned to the turbulence of the Western Balkans calling for Belgrade and Banja Luka. Today, few who can even imagine a different path for our country that has not been out of the war so long ago. Issuing defence and access to defence preparations and potentials would be different today if Croatia were not a member of NATO alliance and it would be more complex and expensive, and yet they would be much more insecure than we are now. Therefore, from the populist attempts of some high officials to challenge the principle of solidarity and promote their own independent approach, and all for the sole purpose of self-promising and cheap political promotions, should be clearly distanced, a team before seriously jeopardising international status and reputation of the Republic of Croatia as part of the transatlantic partnership. Already, the very fact that these steps have experienced broad publicity and support from Moscow or its mediators speaks sufficiently about the failures involved. In these highly complex security conditions, which intensify the action and potential of peace throughout Europe, everyone and anyone who emptys the populist questioning of the principles of NATO collective defence is very dangerous. In addressing these crises and suppressing attempts to destabilise our immediate environment, both the EU and NATO will play a decisive role. The Republic of Croatia supported the proposal to form new battle groups in the framework of NATO-enhancing activities and to establish additional NATO battle groups in Central and Southeast Europe, i.e. Hungary, Slovakia, Romania and Bulgaria. In accordance with this, the Ministry of Defence and the OSCE Chief Staff proposed that up to 70 OSCE members be engaged. HSLS welcomes this decision that Croatia is actively involved in NATO's activities by sending up to 70 soldiers to neighbouring Hungary, and I am personally sorry that for more than 20 years of systematic devastion of the Croatian Army we are not able to engage more actively in the activities of the enhanced vigilance of the NATO alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96162	The second debate of the Club of Representatives of CENTR and GLAS and respected colleague Mrak Taritaš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96163	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia has been a NATO member since 2009. Our soldiers participated in numerous UN, NATO and EU operations and missions even before we became members of the Alliance. The first was the UN mission to Sierra Leone in 1999. Our soldiers' first participation in NATO's mission, or members of the military police, have been small in Afghanistan since 2003. We have participated or participated in missions in Lebanon, Western Sahara, Kosovo, Poland, Lithuania, Chad, Central African Republic, etc. I am sure that every such participation strengthens our Armed Forces, that we acquire new knowledge and skills, and that we deepen cooperation and trust with our allies and partners. Unfortunately, some new dark clouds of bloody war operations have prevailed over Europe in our immediate neighborhood. Ukraine is a state-run border with a car coming from Zagreb in six and a half hours. It is about the same as from Zagreb to Dubrovnik. Between Ukraine and Croatia, between Russian tanks and rocket launchers, and only one of us is Hungary, fortunately a NATO member. Although I had no doubts about Croatia's membership in NATO or when we came in, it is never a subject for any of us to think about on a daily basis in normal life. But one of the first thoughts that went through my head on February 24th, so two weeks ago, only two weeks ago, Putin attacked Ukraine was lucky to be a NATO member. The idea of NATO as an organisation itself says it guarantees the freedom and security of its members through political and military means. In a political sense, NATO promotes democratic values and enables members to consult and cooperate on defence and security issues in order to address the problem, build trust and prevent conflicts in the long term. In a military sense, NATO is committed to a peaceful conflict resolution. But if diplomatic efforts fail, it has the military's ability to handle the crisis. And this comes first of all to the often mentioned Article 5 on the common defence of all Member States. Unfortunately, and unfortunately, I can't stress enough. The war in Ukraine reminded us of this security net that NATO provides us with. Protection of borders and collective security suddenly became the main news. We've all been together for decades that have dragged us into the idea that peace has been given to us and that there will be no more wars in Europe. This has now proved to be a naive and dangerous illusion. What is quite certain is that we will have the economic consequences of this situation. Prices of food and energy have been rampant before the invasion and sanctions of Russia, and what is actually waiting for us none of us can know exactly. What neither of us can know exactly is what Vladimir Putin's plan is, in fact, how long this situation will last and whether the war in Ukraine will spill over its borders, and this is a particularly unpleasant reality in which we live. That's why collective deterrence and defense efforts on the Eastern wing of the Alliance are something that at this point has every justification and I don't see any alternative to those measures. Battle groups have already been established in Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. At the moment we face the greatest threat to European security for a long time, a decision has been taken to establish additional fighting groups in Hungary, Slovakia, Romania and Bulgaria. This is called enhanced vigilance activities and it is about multinational forces composed of members of the Armed Forces of the Member States. As part of enhanced vigilance, up to 70 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia should participate as part of a combat group led by Hungary that would be deployed in that country. Since the proposal for a decision states that we have reached 70 members on the basis of the proposal of the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces, I assume that it is a real figure that we can refer to by ensuring all the necessary conditions for participation in such units and as regards both the quality and the material conditions as requested by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Republic has given his prior consent to this decision. One detail in this proposal is the one about the financial resources needed to implement this decision. The fact is that in response to the State Secretary's reply to one of the replicas given by one parliamentary secretary, the State Secretary replied by what means is a word, because the decision itself states that the funds are secured in the 2022 and 2023 budget, so it is good that he gave this information orally, but I see no reason why it could not have been written and written as usual in the proposals we have written. But what I'm stressing all the time I'm going to point out one more time. Unfortunately, the word cannot be avoided in the debate on this decision. Unfortunately, the security situation in Europe has turned completely overnight. Unfortunately, at the borders of the EU and NATO, people are killed by a strong and dangerous military force, and unfortunately our soldiers must also participate in the increased efforts of deterrence and defence by believing that we all agree that our greatest hope for that part of the defence will not have to come, but also when it comes to deterring and when it comes to defence we now see that our soldiers and our country are part of a large and powerful defence alliance. Since this is a debate on the united two points, so first and second, I'm going to end up refering to something also to cybersecurity. We are absolutely a position and I personally believe that cybersecurity is extremely important, that it is absolutely good that ours, so up to 5 are members who participate in the rapid response teams and mutual assistance, it is good to take care of it because indeed not only now but also in the future it will be one of the new visions and ways in which certain things will have to be done and some things have to go, and to the end to make clear what position our club has been related to, not so long ago was the budget and when it was the budget of the Republic of Croatia we have given the amendment that the item relating to cyber security increases which, of course, at that point from the level of the Ministry of Defence was rejected, of course as soon as the item or requirement came from the opposition then it was not accepted, but rejected, and the explanation was what I want to read and what I think it should be, with what I am going to end this debate is the position that I think about it. The explanation was modern warfare and modern defence is largely being fought in the virtual world. The consequences of such a war, however, are not virtual but very real and can be the most serious threat to national security. That is why we believe it is necessary to increase investment in the development of cybernetic capacity of personnel within the Ministry of Defence. This was an explanation of the amendments, and the amendment required an increase in that item, of course, that the competent ministry refused it, but this is the attitude and importance of cybersecurity, the importance of education, the importance of investment in knowledge, because investment in knowledge always comes back to you in any world and real and virtual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96164	Now, on behalf of the Mosta Club, the esteemed colleague Rasdic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96165	My colleagues and colleagues, when I talk about these things, there is always that problem between theory and practice because we are now speaking theoretically and clearly Croatian interests, we are members of the NATO Pact, we have our own interests, but also our own obligations, it is clear that in the Hungarian Pannonian Nizi it is better to defend Croatia than at the Croatian borders, all this is very clear. However, we are not some abstract individuals who are now working geostrategic, interesting and material calculations, but are people of blood and flesh and people who have a history of their own, and I understand that every Croatian who knows anything about Croatian history is a momentary feeling of discomfort and caution when it comes to sending Croatian soldiers beyond the national or ethnic borders. Unfortunately, our history is like this, and I don't think there are comparable people in Europe, the books are written about it, and I've done some of this myself by analyzing the depictions of Croats in Italian culture where one of the dominant was the model of Croats as a cruel soldier in the Austrian service in the 19th century. They left the bones of our people for centuries away from Croatia, left bones and on the eastern battlefield, property miners from Belgium ended and left bones in Spain, Dalmatian youngsters left bones in Sutjeski, which today is the border of Montenegro and Republika Srpska, nothing to do with Croatia and Croats today, nor will they ever have again. Their peers may have left bones in Stalingrad convinced each other and those before them to do so in some Croatian interest because it is better than closer. All these historical reasons and painful Croatian experiences when we draw the line and look at all of this for every Croatian soldier would have said better if he had stayed in the house if he had not interfered, had not gone either to Stalin or Sutjesk because where Austria is, where is, where is the ideal that led them to Sutjesk. However, today we are where we are. We'll support this, but as I said in the replica, there remains one feeling of inadequacy. It is, inadmissible how this proposal is presented. I'm going to do what I said in the replica one more time. We as Assembly representatives who will raise our hands here to send our people beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia where there is a certain risk, and the risk is that someone should not return to God in a tin box, so you should look into the eyes of your parents or your wife or husband. So, in order to bear that risk and raise our hands, we need to have more detailed information on where people are sending, above all, a risk assessment of the minimum we should have received here as well as those missions on Poland and Baltic countries, and whether it was a mission that was currently low, medium or high risk. We didn't get that, as we didn't get a more serious explanation of the geopolitical relations and context in which he sent people. So we see here how, in the proposal, it explained that NATO members adopted an action plan for preparedness at the Wels 2014 summit to create new strengthening of the existing operational capabilities of NATO. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It was already the first war in the east of Ukraine and Russia had an action against Crimea and we can say pseudo sanctions to Russia today because I'm going to tell them what they looked like. It was then stated that the NATO summit in Warsaw in July 2016 concluded that implementation of this action plan was successfully translated and decided to act in two main directions by further strengthening collective deterrence and defence and strengthening the eastern presence of the NATO Pact, etc. In 2016, the European Commission under the pressure of Germany to pass all rules of competition gives a monopoly de facto Gazprom to the state-owned Russian gas pipeline Opal in Germany, and as Russia has been under sanctions for 2 years because of Crimea and more. You should keep that in mind. We need to clarify what happened before the Russian attack on Ukraine in order to protect ourselves both as Croatia and as the EU, so that similar problems do not happen again thanks to groups and/or incompetent people. We have been explained that the Republic of Croatia has supported the proposal to establish new battle groups within the framework of NATO's enhanced vigilance activities and with this regard to the Ministry of Defence, the main headquarters has implemented a breakdown of capabilities and has proposed engagement of up to 70 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of the activities of strengthening the vigilance of the battle group under Hungary's leadership in Hungary, up to 70. It is not explained why 70, why it is not 50 or 150, as it is not clear why we have sent people to Latvia or Poland before. We are members of the NATO Pact and we must fulfil our obligations, but in what way we bring, first we do not know what percentage we are committed to sending people on missions, is that 1 or 2 or 3% of the people we make available for missions whether they are NATO, EU or UN. Slovenia, for example, mainly sends all people to Kosovo, thus making its quota. Why Kosovo? Well, because he has an economic interest. Slovenian products are sold there as they are during Yugoslavia today or as they estimated to be safer in Kosovo than on the eastern front. So we'd like to hear what thoughts led to decisions to be sent here or there and so many people. What surprised me very much and that I asked a question in the replica, and I didn't get an answer, is Hungary's unwillingness to accept it at all. So, 4.3 days ago, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijaretto said after a meeting of the foreign minister in Brussels that Hungary also protects the southeastern side of NATO, and said, Hungarian defence forces can protect Hungary and no additional force is needed, the Hungarian foreign minister added. He won't. So until a few days ago, the option was that 70 people would go there to Hungary, apply, check and within 24 hours return to Croatia if necessary. Following the escalation of the further war, we learn that Hungary will allow NATO troops to deploy in western Hungary and arms shipments to move its territory to other NATO member states, but not to Ukraine. The NATO military regulation will allow transit by land and air through Hungary and Hungary west of the Danube. It also allows NATO forces to transit in other cases such as participation in training exercises and training missions except in cases where their final destination is Ukraine. It's a Hungarian stand. So, those who are as hosts actually don't want some strong presence of NATO forces including these 70, when they had to at least if it wasn't in the eastern part near Russia so they wouldn't get angry, but west of the Danube. Why didn't you tell us and explain it? If we're sending people out there we need to know if they're now waiting for them with open arms, we're going to super stop now all together or cross-will, and let's go west there to be, to be less visible. It's serious stuff. On the one hand, there is talk of some kind of community, so we heard about the NATO summit in Warsaw, and on the other hand there is still a fundamental problem of the EU, a key problem, which is that the EU has never come to life as some supranational creature that was trying to push past what was originally imagined. That the EU does not have the possibility of self-defense and that it is primarily a military threat because it is unequal. Well, they could see that in these weeks that preceded the Russian attack that was not a harmonised European foreign policy, but everyone is leading their own, for your own account you go to Scholz to talk to Putin, for your Macron who every little phoned him after the war started. So let's not be naive. Each EU country is currently looking at its own interests. Hungary does not allow the transport of weapons to Ukraine, reluctantly agreed three days ago only to additional NATO forces, but only west of the Danube. Germany looks at its interest and opposes real sanctions, which are those related both to gas and oil. The Great Britain is in trouble because they're far away because they're very little dependent on Russian energy. So everyone here is looking at their own interests, so let's look at our own. We will support this, we are a member of the NATO Pact, but I hear a branch of salis and with a lot of questionnaires that I think we need to get answers from both the Ministry and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96166	Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Bauk, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96167	Thank you, Mr. President. The challenge is that when two generals speak behind me, there will be this, things are actually very simple. So simple that I found a relatively good description in a low-school reader, I'll read it. The accident struck the quail, and her house was set on fire by a shadow to see what had happened. That's how you need the words of the shadow, and throw the dry grass into the fire. From somewhere came the swallows into the beak brought a drop of water and dropped it into the fire, from the dry grass that cast it into the fire the shadow of the fire did not become larger, nor from a drop of water which was lower by the owner of the fire, but therefore the quail knew who was her friend and who was her enemy. Not these 70 soldiers will save Ukraine, not these 70 soldiers will save NATO, but they will clearly show those to whom Croatia is and which side we are on, and this may be the time until last Thursday, the last time it was already being tactile, but this is the time when we need to clearly determine which side we are on. In this respect, the SDP club will support the Government proposal and the decision of the President of the Republic to give consent to refer up to 70 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic to Hungary, so that when appropriate orders are made in the number in which it is operated, etc. Listening to colleagues who have been talking about these topics lately, the issue of both the equipment and the readiness of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to defend the borders of their homeland, I think their HDZ colleague said so today. However, since joining NATO "our country's borders" are at least as far as the east is concerned at the borders of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania and Turkey, and the borders of the Netherlands, Spain or Germany are at our borders, at the border with Serbia, BiH and that is, Montenegro and Albania and Macedonia are in NATO, so it is rounded up. Therefore, by observing this light of NATO entry, we have committed ourselves to defending Hungary, Poland, Lithuania, etc. that now they can name some other U.S., as they have committed to defending us. We didn't commit ourselves, so we don't do that, and I can see that other NATO countries are not doing that to defend Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova and those countries that aren't in NATO at least not by direct military involvement. The way NATO's alliance is helping Ukraine at this time, and looking at this proposal, it seems to me that I didn't find the word of Ukraine anywhere in the government's proposal in an explanation, so it doesn't say any of the words of Ukraine, but actually the forward presence is quite connected to what's happening today in Ukraine. So, the way they defend or help Ukraine NATO members is not military, not directly involved with the military, is not even closing airspace above Ukraine because of a certain type of tactics or perhaps a real danger to NATO, and then Croatia does not come into direct war with the Russian Federation. As a result, everything remains more or less on aid and economic sanctions. But there are also certain calculations of EU member states, not NATO, and NATO, but it is primarily about the EU, to protect its economic interests, or to make the price they will pay due to economic sanctions for them as little as possible. I have to say that since last Thursday, I've been having a dilemma about whether it's the right approach or whether the calculation with as little price as possible is a better calculation with a lower price and indirect feeding of the Russian war machine because anyone who buys gas and oil from Russia pays them and feeds the Russian war machine at this point, as terrible as it sounds, but that's the case. Is this a more legitimate and better option or that this calculation stops and that it actually realizes that the possible feeding of a war machine that might not only fit on what it is now, and maybe we don't know that because in the war decisions depend on a human factor, and it's the most unpredictable? Will it actually be a higher price than it will be paid if that machine does not stop in due course and returns to normal diplomatic frameworks? But not to be the one who's thought to be the fastest in the barricades, but not the wisest, so that I can stop a little further lobbying and criticism of the Russian Federation's policy towards my neighbors, I'll stick to this. We will support the proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of NATO's enhanced vigilance activities in Hungary and will support the proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces in activities under the EU's permanent structured cooperation project "Cibernetic Teams for Rapid Response and Mutual Assistance in Cyber Security" proposed by the Government on March 3rd, to which the President of the Republic of Croatia agreed on 1st of March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96168	Now, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives' Club, an esteemed colleague, Ante Prkacin, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96169	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. How are you? It's been a while. Did you want me? Since these ten minutes are just enough for me, I can make a little bit of an introduction like this. So I was invited to speak on this subject because of some war experience knowledge of history and life and conflict and war and since the Homeland Movement has advanced, they have started working on committees and the committee has also drawn up that very interesting report for me. You know, I don't really like reading the papers, but this is a report I was willing to make because, uh, Josip Jurcevic, who knows the war and history and the history of the conflict, did one great thing, but how many military and literary works would not have fallen on me if I had read it if I hadn't heard two three colleagues who had said at least 30, 40 or 50% of what was in the report. Furthermore, I have also looked back on you distinguished colleagues and colleagues, and I listen very carefully to you, and when I'm not here, and I repeat that this is a high-quality council meeting, a quality meeting. So, already in replicas, I encountered something very interesting with my colleague Grumoja, my colleague Petir, and especially fellow Djakic, who asked questions, and what is happening in our neighborhood and a few other colleagues mentioned, here is this one, this one before me, performing Arsenija Bauk said that he was missing Ukraine and he talked about Ukraine a lot. I miss BiH along with Ukraine, because today we need to make two decisions to send 70 people, 70 members of the armed forces to Hungary and 5 members of the armed forces, whether Lithuania or Latvia, to Lithuania, which is fine, but 5 hundred members of the armed forces with the complete equipment of the commandos are coming to BiH and with, with armor, with anti-arms ready to operate tomorrow. When Ukraine is mentioned and all of this is mentioned, which you have been mostly talking about for the last 14-15 days, it is mostly a reaction to this extremely difficult political situation, the shocking situation in Ukraine, and so NATO reacts and so we accept this reaction, and that is why our soldiers are going to Hungary and that is why our soldiers are going to Lithuania. However, it is often mentioned that there is a fear of overdoing the conflict from Ukraine to BiH, and I am very sorry that it is not given a little more attention. I even wanted to ask for an addition to the agenda, so I would suggest that we discuss what is happening in BiH as very important political activities take place in BiH and the arrival of these 5 hundred people who come to BiH are politically abused. Seeing and following what's going on in Ukraine, I'm telling you that the Russians, Arsen, you're gonna stop telling me I kept silent while you were talking, don't bother me, please, so following what's going on, I see that those five hundred people and all their equipment being politically abused because given the situation on Putin and Russia's battlefield, it's not even the end of your mind to move anywhere, they'd give the bank to get in the car after three to get out, but it's hard to get out of the car. That Putin claimed to be Peter the Great's successor, 1711. Peter the Great was surrounded by the Turkish army and you know what he did, handed over heavy artillery, handed over weapons, stopped smart people, so we agreed. The Turks could have won the war, but lost 10,000 people and killed 20,000 Russians, and they made a nice deal to leave the Turks with heavy artillery and everything else, and the army almost unbroken to return home. Now for a moment this BiH, the spilling of danger, the military is coming to BiH to protect BiH from Dodik and Vukic. Throughout history, Serbia has never been in a more difficult political situation than it is now. The wolf is like a roast goat, right, Stier, you know that. It has never been more difficult for him, on the one hand, to justify that cheap Russian gas and more than that, it needs to be preserved and emotional to win, to win tomorrow's elections, and on the other hand, Vucic wants to enter the EU intimately, and he is in great pain. Dodik is in a similar situation with the fact that he does not want to join the EU, and at the end of their mind neither is causing any conflict in BiH. This is what someone abuses and those who seek sanctions for Dodik should first respond when sanctions will be imposed on Zeljko Komsic and whoever produced him and who installed him because he is the most constructive element in BiH. He's a political phenomenon, an intellectual man, so I won't say it, but nothing special, and a moral niche like that didn't appear in politics. And as much as it bothers me that you also have in the Croatian wise, you have a team that never loved Croatia, you have a team that loved Croatia, so because of political conflicts within the HDZ, they hated HDZ and hated Croatia, so I don't know who and how they talk such nonsense, they talk such nonsense, they do harm to the Croatian people, because the Croatian people and BiH are like-minded at this point. The only people who care about BiH are Croats. Thank you, Mr. President, I'm a little bit of a jump on the subject, but it's very, very close, it's not naked, I have more to talk about. Look out, today...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96170	No, no, today, today is, today is very good, we follow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96171	Yes, today attacking Milorad Dodik is the same thing as being in '91. when we received weapons from Hungary, Croatia does not know where to go and does not know where to go. The Hungarians give us weapons and then a philosopher shows up and remembers Coloman Arpadovic, which is 1097. on the Iron, he beat up the Croats, and we fought the Hungarians. He who attacks Milorad Dodik today is either a national traitor or a mercenary or a total fool and unfortunately has both species. So, I am particularly pleased to say this in the Croatian Parliament because there was no better opportunity and better time to solve the political problem of the Croats in BiH and BiH, the tensions have been strengthened and there is no more lurking and attention coming to me, hmm a saying that I do not like very much, is out of use to say, popo and Bobba, it is somewhere Vasil Tupurkovski and Kiro Gligorov, and also the late Stipe Šuvar they said that those years and days when Yugoslavia fell apart, and so it is time to tell you Popup and Bobba Bob. To know who is the true destructive in BiH. That's what needs to be ordered from this Croatian Parliament. Never has this Croatian Parliament and Croatian politics had as much weight as it is now, and Europe has never been more ready to react and to take advantage of the opportunity because we cannot influence events and events in Ukraine, but we can take advantage of the opportunity to fix BiH and improve the situation of Croats in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96172	We are now going to the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Honored counterpart Sacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96173	Thank you very much. Dear President, state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public, the Croatian Sovereigns' Club will support these decisions regardless of their lack of explanation. I agree with my colleague, Rasputic, who noticed it correctly. No geostrategic framework is given, but well globally, in these conditions of our Ministry of Defence's conduct, it has decided to act quickly without any further arguments, with strict words, the President of the Republic who has made his decision in this regard. However, this context of sending our Croatian soldiers out of our country of Croatia will certainly cause and is now challenging many questions both among the Croatian people and, moreover, we can say openly to our enemies that the Russian Federation and President Putin Hrvatta have marked us from a few days ago, and in this whole context we have to live continuously with it, all of our state issues and decisions must be consumed by such a burden that we bear on our weak feet. Next, surely, we must invest more energy, more power and more money in the development of our defence capabilities, our military security capabilities. There is no longer any reason to delay the life of our regiments, some of which, yesterday on the Defence Committee, the reserves of the Croatian, the Croatian armies have no reason to open and truly serious and responsible, we have not been able to discuss here and here in this Croatian Assembly which forms of military training for our Croatian youth must be proposed, we must adopt, because the state of security, I think to everyone, well Mrs. Mrak Taritash said, many of us have in recent years, with one unauthorized naiveity, turned to the state of security in the Republic of Croatia and laid our hand on the very mention of strengthening the defence capabilities of the Croatian army from buying planes to armored and all sorts of other potentials. However, it is now a reality. What none of us could have imagined was this that one great Russia could be so openly in this present society protected by the UN, the Council of Europe, the EU, NATO, all systems so brutally and openly this neglecting one peaceful annexion of Crimea, but so brutally, openly, to enter the area of another state and break their system, in fact trying to break their system it was recently unimaginable even though we had the opportunity to see it in Iraq, in the Arab spring, in Afghanistan, but obviously it was far from us and we felt that there were some other reasons there than what we now have. It means to me Croatian sovereigns the context of sending Croatian soldiers to Hungary or to any other country of this eastern belt of Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, Poland, etc., we are definitely connecting to the simultaneous strengthening of our potentials because I will repeat it again. By freezing the military deadline, or by not inviting our soldiers to serve the mandatory military deadline two years ago, we actually made it impossible for Croatian youth to qualify for what is most necessary to defend both its homeland, its family, ourselves, and we need to seriously talk about it today because other countries in Europe are doing this, and we Croatians must turn to it. I will not pre-name the dangers that threaten us in our neighborhood at all, because while we are in the NATO Alliance as long as Article 5 exists, we have the opportunity to respond, but let us never forget that for the first 24 hours, even up to 48 hours until the system is established, until international aid connections are settled, until the logistics channels are resolved, political, military, diplomatic, all systems until the attacked must survive on their own. That's what happened in Ukraine. How much potential we have with our current army, the professional composition, that's a question and what strength it is, that's a question that deserves studio analysis and I'm running away from the flat-rates. However, it remains an open responsibility in some way for the NATO Pact forces, especially in Warsaw in the 2016 Warsaw NATO meeting. A review of that preparedness action plan was adopted in Wales in 2014 and where the NATO Pact Member States said it would go in two directions, to strengthen the presence of deterrence and defence against the potential enemy was then definitely Russia, but another direction is also in that document from 2016, which no one is referred to today, and this other direction is that all NATO Member States will project stability into their neighbouring countries and potential partners to strengthen their institutional and military security and stability. So let's read it, we'll help Ukraine read it just so it can be read amongst other things, we'll help Ukraine strengthen institutional, organisational, military security. Well, they didn't do everything they had to do, so today I'm looking at it in a way that was embarrassingly surprised. In fact, the reaction to military aggression, the terrible military aggression that started from Russia with both air and sea and land was not at the level of Ukraine as we expected in view of the aid, given the condition that they had continued to be at war since 2014, and we expected that NATO forces were just referencing themselves to their obligation in Warsaw in 2016, but obviously it did not take much more than that, and they had a basis for both diplomatic and political, any other way, but obviously it did not take place in this way. Thank God the Ukrainian defense force has gathered and we have a different situation today, but civilians are killed. We must conclude that this defense system, this shield that we have, as Mr. Bauk correctly observed our borders are now far greater and far more protected, that it will give us strength and as President Buch said to the Croats do not fear you will never again be attacked by anyone when he came to Zagreb, but we must make sure never to say anything, anything is possible. If we are attacked by the Croats we must know and we must be able to respond and survive for at least 24 hours, and until 48 hours minimum our forces must endure. Now it's the responsibility of the Ministry of Defense, but also of all of us politicians and of this assembly to endure such a system. No one else has the right to say it will not happen, we are safe, protected by the UN Charters, protected by Council documents, EU etc., no, at some point fatefully we will remain Croats as the Ukrainians have faced themselves for a certain number of hours, and only then will the system of our friendly protection be launched. So let's get into it, protect ourselves, protect others, but protect ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96174	We are now going to the seventh debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, a respected colleague, Vidovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96175	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The other day we watched and followed President Zelinski addressed the British Parliament, the one who listened carefully could see and hear, he used a good part of the word of a great statesman, who was practically at the head of the anti-fascist coalition in II. The World War Winston Churchill. He used words, we'll fight on the beaches, on the sea, in the air, in the woods, and in the end we'll never surrender. It's a situation where Ukraine is now, but it's a situation unfortunately as much as we convince each other that can spread beyond Ukraine, that's the point right now. On the other hand, you have a country where we hear the greatest thing we need a world without Russia, which is very dangerous. So we don't need a world without Russia, but we need a world where Russia is involved in an international community, all in which Russia respects international law and the world in which Russia works and acts by international law and international standards. What's happening to Ukraine, I think anyone who has any morals should be condemned. And there's an answer to your question why are we engaged? We are engaged because we are there in the 1990s, the 1990s and the first to define that we will build a country that will be a member of Western European integration that will be a member of NATO, which will be a member of the EU. Then we wondered why no one was helping us. We've challenged both NATO and all sorts of things, and we're finally, and thank God that's how we solve the whole situation with our own strengths. We're in a different situation now. Croatia has voluntarily decided in democratic procedures that it will be a member of NATO and that it will be a member of the EU. Now it's up to us to respect that. How we will call for help for ourselves if we are not willing to give help to others. In doing so, I do not advocate the sending of our Armed Forces to be clear beyond the borders of NATO member states only under the condition of the UN Resolution, but then it is a different story. And what is this NATO? As one of my colleagues said, and here I think Mr. Stier mentioned it to NATO was primarily a defense alliance, so it was formed. NATO is a defence alliance in which all members decide what, when and how they will. And we're part of that alliance. What NATO is doing now, and what the EU is doing, which is doing practically the entire free world, is pushing for a diplomatic solution to the situation, i.e. war and aggression in Ukraine. If we're gonna make it all together, we're gonna see it, but we have to be ready for what if. And precisely because of what if, we need to engage in these missions. So, what's an alternative to our engagement is that civilians continue to die, it's that tomorrow any bully can hit the weak one on the head. It is to you that the countries that claim may be after someone else's territory to take that territory in a bloody clear march. So there's no alternative at all. And now we can discuss the reasons that were before 2015, which is after 2015, etc. But it's no longer relevant at this point, and it's not even current. Therefore, we at the Social Democrats Club will definitely support the engagement of our troops in both Hungary and the Cyber Security Team and in any other NATO member state. As far as the Republic of Croatia itself is concerned, Croatian citizens can be calm regardless of the situation to the east of us, I think Croatian citizens can be, what is the art of politics and what might be the art of politics is that our top officials take advantage of this situation to solve the problem of Bosnia, clearly not military, I am talking about diplomatic resolution, not anywhere near anything else. So now we have the opportunity to point out clearly the problem of Bosnia, to highlight the problem of the Croats in Bosnia and finally resolve the situation. And I think we have an international environment where we could get a favourable result for the Croats in Bosnia, not for us. So Croatia is a safe country and Croatia will continue to be. Thank our army for their service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96176	Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the esteemed counterpart Ante Deur will speak as the eighth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96177	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here is a thank you for this explanation of the proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of NATO's increased vigilance activities in Hungary, and a proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of cybernetic response teams and mutual assistance in cybersecurity. As far as these proposals are concerned, I would like to point out that the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support these proposals, and I believe that all other colleagues and colleagues will support them. The promoter explained in detail what it was about when it came to the proposals of these decisions. Don't let us draw any further attention today to all of us that what has happened in Ukraine and Europe in the last two weeks. On the 15th day of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the images that come from that country remind us of the images that came 30 years ago from the attacked surrounded and destroyed Vukovar. The war destruction now faced by the Ukrainian people deeply affects us because we, unfortunately, know very well what war is. Today we are marking the Day of the Croatian defenders of Vukovar, the day of my comrades whom he would greet on this occasion, but for all those who died and disappeared, may God give them dear eternal peace. Let us give them all due respect because they selflessly stepped on the Croatian defence defender when we needed it most. Tragic events from Eastern Europe are now the most brutal way to show us how good it is that the Republic of Croatia is a full member of the EU and NATO, and that together with its American and European allies and partners we have a common security and defence policy. The proposals for today's decisions are more than welcome, NATO is a defence alliance and a decision to strengthen the system and set up its territory exclusively on the territory of the alliance is a good decision. None of us want to lead to an escalation of the conflict with these activities or even worse to endanger the EU and NATO area, on the contrary, the decision contributes to the safety of Croatian citizens. It is therefore logical that the Republic of Croatia, as a responsible member of the NATO Alliance, participates actively in the planning of the military union with its NATO command officers, participates with the force on the ground in this case in Hungary. Now we see how important it is to have our own abilities, how good it is that, through the increased extraction of defenses, the funds for the purchase of new equipment such as the Rafale fighter planes, then helicopters, armored Bradleys and others. Of course, all this would not be possible without investment in people, and care for our members and members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about another proposal concerning the participation of Croatian members as part of cybernetic response teams and mutual assistance in cybersecurity, I would like to point out that I am extremely proud that the armed forces are involved in such a project. Today's defence capabilities are based not only on the traditional domains of land-sea-air warfare, but also on the domain of cybers, and on the domains, except under today's understanding, NATO's termology is a separate domain and its specificity affects defence capabilities and other traditional domains. The possibility of engagement of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia with regard to security is also a fruit of hard work in the armed forces of the Ministry of Defence, as well as of the good relations we develop in other allies and partners, which enables us to join NATO and the EU right now. You are aware that the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia have established a command in cyberspace, and I am sure that inclusion in the work of these teams contributes not only to European defence but also to the possibility of defending the Republic of Croatia from potential threats. This project, as said in a way, has been revived just by signing a memorandum of consent in March 2020. here in Zagreb during the Presidency of the EU Council. In addition to Croatia, Estonia, the Netherlands, Poland, Romania and Lithuania are participating as the leading state. It is about the EU's NATO member states, some of which and the Republic of Croatia have quite an intense bilateral defence co-operation. Activities under the project shall be carried out in the countries participating in the project to other EU Member States, institutions, bodies and EU agencies, missions, common security and defence policies of the EU, as well as other related activities and partners. I believe that in the work and in this country, we can achieve the project's stated goal, which is to strengthen our own abilities and respond to all threats. The defence and security of the Euro-Atlantic area rests on NATO, but also a strong European defence in which EU members must assume part of their responsibility. Members and members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the past activities and missions and operations have proved to be top professionals, and the skills they adopt in the work and other Allied partner nations contribute directly to Croatian security and the capabilities of the armed forces. It is necessary to continue and develop the defence capabilities of the Republic of Croatia, to take advantage of exactly the opportunities given to us by co-operation with other allies and partners, and also to be a responsible adviser involved in the joint defence activities of NATO and the EU. I believe this proposal will support a large number of MPs and MPs just as we did here in HS last week condemned Russian aggression and expressed full support for the Ukrainian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96178	And now as the last Club of Representatives will be a green-left block in whose name will speak respected colleague Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96179	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are discussing a proposal for a decision on the participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of NATO's increased vigilance in Hungary. At first sight, this is one in a series of decisions on the engagement of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of NATO's joint activities as we have already discussed in HS and related to the sending of our forces to Lithuania, Latvia, Poland. We are now sending our forces to Hungary, but of course in a completely different context, in the context of the armed aggression of Putin's administration in Ukraine. It is well known to all of us that Hungary is bordering with Ukraine, so we will have our forces deployed right next to the country where brutal armed aggression takes place, bearing in mind that so far sending our forces to other countries bordering Ukraine has unfortunately not deterred the violent Putin administration from causing aggression to Ukraine. In this context, the Green-Left bloc club will support this motion for a decision because we are aware that when an armed conflict arises, it is an approach to deterring and scaring other armed forces, unfortunately, an approach that has shown that it can lead to a calming of the conflict or to a halting of war and, unfortunately, again, to numerous human losses. Once there is a war, the main goal is to do everything possible to stop the violence it has for the consequences of unwarranted human loss as soon as possible. But here we want to emphasise once again what we talked about and in earlier discussions about sending our forces within NATO obligations, the appeal that we do not neglect the power of the civilian forces. Although war resistance is inevitable through weapons, let us not forget that there are a whole series of options that can contribute to the desecration of conflict or to ensuring that those responsible for aggression will sooner or later suffer the consequences of their decisions. In this regard, through the support of the Declaration of Ukraine, we welcomed the activities already carried out by our country in connection with sanctions that must be even more severe and even narrowly targeted by Putin's administration, along with the willingness of our country to accept all refugees from Ukraine. But we can see that there is still room for activities that we can contribute as soon as the war stops and ensure that those responsible are truly responsible for their crimes. In that sense, we have already appealed to the mobilized resources that we have within our society regarding timely and objective documentation of war crimes and human losses. These 14 days of war have made it clear once again that numerous war crimes happen in every war. The mantra of the only military targets being targeted has fallen apart on the first day of the war. Schools, maternity homes, hospitals, civilians and children are being re-destructed. Any crime if it is well documented in time has greater potential to be punished in the future. Let us only remember how many war crimes were not prosecuted in the war in Croatia because they were not documented enough. As far as we know on the ground already working teams of the International Criminal Court and individual NGOs, but we are sure that our experience of documenting, but also the processing of war crimes, will now be very welcome to Ukraine and we call on the government to bring together all those who have dedicatedly worked on it during the war in Croatia and find a way to mobilise and our forces. In addition, we already need to work on documenting every human loss. Every victim in this war must be documented with his name and last name and circumstances in which she was killed. The list of human losses is one of the preventive mechanisms that there is hope that wars will not be repeated, and also as much comfort to the families of the victims that their suffering will be recognized and the victim appropriately memorialized. We know from our own experience that 25 years after the end of the war we still do not have a list of all human losses in Croatia. In addition to working on documenting war crimes and human losses, let us not ignore the non-violent resistance of citizens and citizens of occupied Ukrainian cities. Every day we look at images from the streets of occupied cities where unarmed citizens stand in front of the Russian army and block their bodies' tanks and seek the end of the occupation. The willingness to resist non-violent resistance in occupied territories is a value that should be supported. And in the war in Croatia there were people who were tirelessly resisting the occupation. That method, however powerless it seems now, hides great power in itself. After all, we saw people who really stopped the bodies from further progressing the tanks. That's why we call on the government to find together ways to give support to both these citizens and citizens of Ukraine. Finally, let us not forget the numerous citizens and citizens of Russia and Belarus who protest daily against war and expose themselves to both the detention and repression of Putin and Lukashenko's regime. Let's remember here, for example. Only 77-year-old Yelene Josephova, who has been on the streets of St. Petersburg these days, protesting against military aggression in Ukraine, regardless of what police are bringing her in and out of jail. As a baby, the deer of Joseph survived and survived the Nazi siege of the then Lenjingrad, and now uncompromisingly stands beside all babies, with all the children, with all the people in occupied Ukrainian cities. Mrs. Josipova is a symbol of the non-violent resistance to Putin and Lukashank's regime to their inability to hide behind thousands of people who oppose this aggression. And as much as that resistance now seems symbolic to us, its potential power is great. And it's an opportunity to find a way to support all those who go out to the streets of Russia and Belarus these days and oppose war. Finally aware of the situation that at a time when people are killed every day by bullets, grenades, bombs need to strengthen the military response to these threats. The Green-Left bloc club will support this decision on the participation of our Armed Forces as part of NATO's enhanced vigilance activity in Hungary. But we also appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to strengthen and mobilise our civil capacities that can contribute as quickly as possible to the end of the war and to ensure that there is a fair recovery from war in time. As far as cybersecurity is concerned, I will only remind myself that we from the Green-Left bloc have also given the amendment to the Republic of Croatia's budget precisely to increase the funds for cybersecurity from 8 to 108 million, as Mr. Secretary of State has mentioned, with reasons for the threat of national security by cyber attacks today, are one of the biggest and most realistic threats to the entire national security system, these attacks are happening almost on a daily basis, and we suggest that the MORH strengthens itself precisely in that section of the defence of national security. The amendment was denied, that was only three months ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96180	We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96181	Honored Chairman, MPs and MPs. The world is in changing relationships, and the uncertainty from further escalation of war is growing from day to day. The consequences of Russia's aggression in Ukraine, and the consequences of the countermeasures that are currently humanely carried out by the unattained countries of the world are inconceivable. We can't predict what the world will look like in a month or two, let alone as far away from it as possible. It is more important to take care of how constitutional values, constitutional order and provisions prescribed by law are respected in every country and thus in the Republic of Croatia, because if there is a failure in steps, I fear that at some point we will reach the point after which there is no turning back. It is important to say that in a world of growing uncertainty, every country will have to take every effort to preserve its democratic values, not just to consider what will be done in the area of military security. For this reason, I will recall some of the constitutional powers of HS, including the HS decision on war and peace, HS adopts acts expressing HS policy, including the HS Strategy for National Security and the Strategy for Defence of the Republic of Croatia. How will HS be able to fulfil these tasks unless it has timely and complete information? I also want to say that when institutions weaken, and HS really needs to be respected as the most important institution of this country, so if it weakens and becomes irrelevant in its role, the world will be in increasing danger every day and so will we. There is no doubt that all the constituency clubs and so are the constituencies of the Centre and the GLAS party agree with this decision and with this proposal, but it should be pointed out that it is more because we are aware of the world circumstances and less for the reasons mentioned in the very explanation of this act, so I will try to explain what is not properly dealt with in it. So, first of all, when it comes to assessing the situation so far, it is said that new security threats have occurred. We all know what these security threats are, but this document stays in HS and after all of us and should have written in it exactly what these security threats refer to. It is further said that in response to changed security conditions and new NATO threats, it is still at its summit in Wales in 2014. expressed his action plan voiced his action plan and preparedness for its implementation through three key components of military, political and institutional. Well, it would be polite, without saying by the rules of procedure and by law, that at least two, three words were said about each of these three components. Unfortunately, there's not one. Third, NATO summit in Warsaw is said to be in July 2016. NATO has decided to act with the goal of collective deterrence and defence by strengthening the eastern presence of the NATO alliance, and in time new battle groups have been established in the Republic of Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, and NATO's command structure has been modernised, the size of NATO response forces has tripled, and NATO member states have begun to allocate more funding for defence. There is once again a lack of concrete data as well as experience of how this was done in practice, the lack of data on the timing of these previous events. And why does it matter? Well, it is important, among other things, that we can understand the causal link between certain events that have certainly affected what we are facing today, the understanding and the causal relationship and that it is very important to achieve some outcomes and the process of diplomatic negotiations, if they really want to do with an honest intention to end the war. In the final speech, I will also say what the problems stemming from the fact that all these activities are being carried out on behalf of the Croatian Defence Minister who is in very bad relations with the President of the Republic of the State and for all of us is one of the major security problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96182	We have one replica of the respected representative of Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96183	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Oreshković, you said super well that we simply live in such a fast time that we do not know what will happen in 10 years or five years without speaking for 2.30 years, so perhaps the proverbs must change, the Croatian rifle on the Croatian shoulder perhaps, the Croatian drone in the Croatian sky or some similar technological innovation. But often we speak above the Parliament itself is only a god. I think we need to change that, too. And that is why it is great that you have scored on all our obligations, tasks but unfortunately insufficient instructions for the Croatian Parliament to fulfill its role, in this case national security. We also heard a colleague of Raukar who had an amendment to cybersecurity, which is the key to everything, so they ruled it out. So, the return of dignity, integrity to the Croatian Assembly is something that is very important, so I would just like to support that idea of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96184	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96185	My entire political and public work is actually focused on building institutions to change the structure of the state because I think that the last 30 years are the most scheduled ones, and now that we see what it looks like when a man gets sick, when he becomes a dictator that absolutely no one can think of as an additional motive for us to realize that democracy actually doesn't work in Croatia. And we have one man whose will is unquestioned and we have one man who does whatever he wants, that no one can do anything to him, and we have a dysfunctional system of brakes and balances where neither the parliamentary majority is what it should be because there is absolutely no power of change to say it to the insufferable and corrupt ministers. And that is Croatia's biggest threat.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96186	The following will be spoken by the esteemed representative Marijan Pavliček, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96187	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State. We support the sending of the Croatian Armed Forces to Hungary as part of the activities of the enhanced vigilance of NATO alliances. We have received information from the secretary of state that right now 181 Croatian soldiers are outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia on various international missions both the UN and NATO alliances. But what is important is the prominent Croatian soldier is primarily in peacekeeping missions, the Croatian soldier is in certain areas to protect peace and the Croatian soldier is with these NATO missions primarily to preserve the security of NATO members. The Croatian soldier does not go to the conquering wars and it is very important here to point out. And the fact is that NATO is highly endangered from the east, but we must also not forget other borders of NATO alliances, which are exactly the borders of Croatia. In the near future, and most likely within the far border of NATO, the alliance will also be bordered by Croatia. I mean it primarily towards the Republic of Serbia, but it is very likely for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we need to be aware of that. We also need to be aware that this Ukrainian crisis can easily be spilled on us by neighbouring countries for one reason because very important political actors in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, in the Republic of Serbia are very much of the interest of the Russian Federation. And not that they're really ready for something military or military action, but how much they'll be under the pressure of the Russian Federation itself. And we therefore believe that we should primarily think about the safety of our own citizens through the activation of existing Laws on Armed Forces, the Law on Defence where Croatia can raise in a very easy and short time the unclassified reserve of up to 30,000 soldiers as much as we currently have capacity, and we should also think about today and the mandatory military deadline but not the classic military deadline that will last 6 or more months, but about a military training period of four weeks for younger generations just so that they can handle weapons in situations that can obviously happen on the European continent, because few of us thought that this could happen. I am also sorry that today was not the loud ones who had been against the purchase of military aircraft, against the purchase of Bradley because they thought it was money, that Croatia should not be a militarized state, which was against having a military school, etc. They're more than quiet today. Today they are simply gone and do not want to admit their mistake, that investment in the military has not been thrown away, that investment in security has not been thrown away. Unfortunately for us today, there is more to come than we thought. It's not a war situation and there's no threat directly. The Croatian army has always been with the Croatian people at the most difficult times, during the time of the flood. Let's remember Gunja. At the time of the earthquake. Let's remember Banovina, let's remember Zagreb. The first ones who were ready to assist are the Croatian soldiers, the Croatian Armed Forces, and besides all the polls, Croatian citizens of all these state institutions have the highest confidence in the Croatian military. Thank God they have because the army showed up when it was most needed in the Homeland War, and I believe it would prove to be in all those future troubles that could come to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96188	We have two replicas. The first is the respected representative of Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96189	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd just like to think that since you're talking about a situation in our environment and environment, which, of course, is possible to change, to send a message to our citizens that the situation is stable, that it doesn't turn out to be a new alertness, a new vigilance, etc. Turned out a little bit about your third minute's vague attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96190	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96191	I thank my colleague, here I am, and this way I want to send a message to our fellow citizens that I can sleep peacefully, that we have a well-trained army that can ensure the safety of our fellow citizens, that of course we are members of the NATO alliance, but that, given the environment, I do not think of our fellow citizens this military aspect must still be on hand for God's sake.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96192	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96193	Here's a dear colleague, I'm glad you looked back on the state of military training of our youth because in the last 13 years. So we have lost the possibility that, since there is no mandatory military deadline in Croatia, even 325,000 Croatian young people will not be trained for elementary military knowledge. Now, we have the possibility of raising at least six months or a year's reserve power, but it's not working, but it's not, it's not being done, so what's your opinion, what's your position on it, we have a legal option, and we're not using it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96194	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96195	I believe that whatever this current situation means about Ukraine and security aspects, I believe that occasionally this article of the law needs to be activated so that we can still provide one additional security to our fellow citizens and that it is a kind of message, if it already exists in the law, if we have the right to activate non-classified reserves, why we don't do it from time to time regardless of this peace-time period, be the safety 100%, and unfortunately it can never be 100% again, we are all aware that yet this article of the Law of Defence is being activated from time to time, especially in today's times.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96196	Thank you. The following will be spoken by honourable representative Rajko Ostojic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96197	Thank you very much, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, there will be a consensus on these two points, which is very, very good and will obviously be a consensus on that investment in health and safety is the fundamental investment of every country, and of course the Croatian state of which my predecessor was just talking about, so investment in health means the Ministry of Health, investment in human health, that's what I thought, investment in the health of the economy, that's the Ministry of Economy and Investment in Security, that's exactly what it says on, on police cars in peace or in the war in HV. So these are four basic institutions that should simply enable them to be safe, and then we're safe. There is no General Prkačin who takes us to 1097, so in the 7th century, I believe that like all of us, we know that "Historia is the sixth master's of Vitae" and that "Repetio mother studiorum". If we're going to talk about history and Croatia and a whole series of countries in the history of the last 100 years, 200. developing and putting into different associations any social association or economic association, economic integration, so we don't have too many praises about the EU or NATO, they need to be appreciated, and on yesterday's topic of monetary union, because these associations are also very fragile, sometimes they shoot these ties very hard and fresh. The EU, Brexit, came guys and went if they have their commies, if they have their own EU, have a larger association called the 52-nation communique, out of 52-nations of a few-billion people, only India has a billion-and-a-half people. NATO, huh, she spoke nicely and I'm gonna get a great buy from Raukar, Putin's administration, Putin's regime, but 3rd. Before Trump's regime, Trump's administration, what she was doing to NATO, you know what she was doing to NATO, almost destroyed NATO. I want to tell you, you know this administration, including the Croatian administration, but we're only talking about two recent examples of Putin's administration and aggression and NATO's Trumpa for a second, Google it, each NATO summit paid whether Trump will come, even organised the NATO summits towards the Trump skeleton if he went to another GS7 or some similar association and monetary union. Unfortunately, Croatia has had major disasters as well as the whole world, covid disaster, a whole series of global value chains, for example because of our chips, we are running out of self-industry, but there is the possibility that we can be in trouble due to grain. But we've had two disasters that we haven't learned much about. No Pracina again "The History Is a Teacher of Life". We had Gunya, a terrible flood, if she had been just before, the ship would have been hurt, if she had been a little later, Osijek would have been hurt, a terrible thing, a little tsunami. We had an earthquake in the capital, a city of a million people, not an earthquake in the periphery of any state where there are 100 people, so we had another earthquake, so we learned anything about that self-sufficiency, little or nothing. We need to be self-sufficient at least in four things, energy, great that this government made LNG terminal, maybe not in a way that it did, but that we have back up. In food, we're self-sufficient in cereals, so maybe we should think about what Hungary did, health care isn't part of EKI, AKI-I apologize, historical gains, so maybe we can leave the grain for us... in the stock reserves, why not, so let's show ourselves. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay, Hungarian's got elections, so Orban's raising his own rating. Third, the drugs, we have a great pharmaceutical industry and the fourth no less important is just this, the military and the police. We need to be self-sufficient, so I've started to wonder whether both the EU and NATO and monetary unions have occasionally had bad connections and freshness, and there may be some administration that all this is going to go where it's going. It's great that in the last few days we've been in a whole series of HS topics in consensus and of course I'm aware of the great problems and potential dangers of our soldiers who will go to war, I support this decision and, of course, point 2 about cybersecurity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96198	We have several replicas, it is right for the respected representative Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96199	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Ostojić, you have noticed perfectly and everything you have said I sign in your presentation and especially that fact that we have a consensus here because this is not just a conflict of Russia and Ukraine, this is a conflict of two different ways of looking at the world. One totalitarian where one concentration of power is contained in one man and one democratic one that apparently Ukraine wants to go to, but someone doesn't like it. What you've pointed out, which is to learn from every conflict something good, so from this, we can see a lot about this concentration. Power is an aphrodisiac that seems to have a very bad effect on some people, and if we already have it in our neighborhood, let's not spill it on us. And we in our society have some that might become little Putinis or little dictators tomorrow, that can't possibly happen to us. And absolutely what you're talking about is that these decisions, not that we support them, but that we have to impose them as topics because NATO is the alliance we have chosen that we have entered voluntarily and that we must respect. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96200	Dear Representative Ostojić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96201	Is, exactly, NATO we chose, NATO is terribly important it's a defence alliance. Someone just quoted me as saying Sacic's preamble to NATO, but we still have to rely on ourselves. That's why I paraphrased that Croatian rifle on the Croatian shoulder, but it's good to have a Croatian drone in the Croatian sky. The guns were... that I wasn't a soldier because I was of course at war, yes, but I'm not a soldier, but it's good to have a rifle, a boot, but it's even better to have a drone. Because times have passed, times of war, today wars are in a different way with Tomahawks as they are said by these rockets in a few hundred thousand miles and things like that. And as far as the situation is concerned that unfortunately anyone can happen, Prickin mentioned Dodik, I think that Dodik is a pest and that the policy he's doing there is a pest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96202	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96203	Dear colleague. For centuries Croatia has been at the border of the two worlds of the East and the West, and it will obviously be so in the future. Since we are where we are, do you think that Croatia allocates enough funds from its military budget, for military equipment, for military technology, do you think that these funds should be increased in the future or reduced?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96204	Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96205	Thank you very much, dear colleague Pavlichek. Well, that's why I said four safety people's health, the Ministry of Health's biggest investment, the economy's health, the economy's biggest investment, and the third is the MUP and the MORH, so it's absolutely an investment, it's not a cost, it's an investment in people, it's an investment in security. The most important word for all of us is safety. So every man around the world has his own gold wire, everyone's for something talented Marianne, everyone, no man who's born today that's not for something talented. It is our obligation to recognize this talent, to use it as a parent of society, professors, etc., but society to allow it to live in a safe environment, and that's why security is a big deal, that it doesn't turn out to be a government, a government that isn't the government of my political party, and that's the side, but the government has done a big thing with these decisions to get Rafael and Bradley. Of course it was before, now we can say that it was the SDP government or someone else's government, but it's irrelevant now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96206	Thank you. Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96207	Here's the esteemed professors and former ministers and vice-president of the government, I'm so glad you mentioned these elements of self-sufficiency, so you referred to these tragedies as both earthquakes and floods. Now, the common sense I think we've lost a generation of very much what 300,000 young men from any form of military training have put aside. What do you think of that? Is there any way we can, we can't go back, but what next? We used to have some pre-war stuff in elementary and high school. What do you do to make these young people know how to defend themselves? I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96208	Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96209	Civil protection, civil protection what we said yesterday civil protection is crucial, so one simple moment to create an adequate situation. You can get military education, not you, but all the people in Croatia and anywhere in the world. So we have in... the war of our Homeland War, right there were people who had been educated militaryly in the former state in the former special forces, the paratroopers' special forces, Titus's guards, but didn't participate in the Homeland War. They had knowledge and skills, but they didn't participate in the Homeland War because they didn't have hearts, so they didn't have the will, they didn't have the heat to understand. So education is that, briefly and clearly, but this is the 21st century high school we leave for some other things, for the first love, for the ECT, for Dinamo, Hajduk, Rijeka, Osijek and some other things, not for the military.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96210	Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96211	Dear fellow MP Ostojić. So here on many occasions you mentioned the importance of security for this entire nation, the whole state in this context here I would mention the possibility of cyber threats that actually happen most in peace. Someone said it was a war in peace, and we know that we are all as individuals and as a society involved in various networks and that this danger of information, disinformation lurks on every individual and country or community, so here are constant investments in sophisticated technologies, education of the IT sector is certainly what you said that the Croatian government is doing is commendable indeed it is one time we need to continue because 21st century changes are on a daily basis so here I am interested in your opinion whether this is one good basis for further investment, security and individuals and communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96212	Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96213	The first, the second industrial revolution for 150 years, meaning from money to Tesla to electricity, the second, third 80 years, the fourth, fifth, which we now live for 5-10 years, the third started with a computer. The computers used to be like this table, today the computers are in my pocket. And the computer and the tape recorder and the camera and everything alive, but unfortunately my data or fortunately. When Djakic and I were traveling, we never traveled together, but we had to have 50 of those papers today, you have nothing. You don't have any cards, you have some kind of confirmation, some kind of QR code. So, the safety of our data, the safety of our health data, now I'm going to tell you.../incomprehensible/... as a doctor, our health data is something that can be misused. So health records whether someone is sick or not, whether they're president or prime minister and they're taking some medications or not, that's something that's very, very serious.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96214	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96215	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague, I think you'll agree with me when I say that our national greatest threat is the irreplaceability of the minister whether it's their corrupt affairs or their purely incompetence for the resort he manages. And here we have a minister who is not only in conflict of interest but in some way misused his powers to assign himself an apartment that doesn't belong to him, we have a minister who is in constant squabble with the president of the state, so he allows himself not to pay off his daily duties because he was not satisfied with the motive that the president of the state hired them, and we have all these affairs with names and shifts of individual generals and advisers, and even now we have the appearance of drugs in the Croatian army. Do you feel that the relevant Board of the Croatian Defence should ask our minister for more and at least commit him to what such a decision should to contain, which is worth it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96216	Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96217	Thank you, dear colleague Oreshkovic, it seems that my cell phone is not well enough for this one. As if you've read my messages, so last week, since I became a member of the Defence Committee, let's ask our president to call a thematic session on drugs or some other stuff in the Croatian Army. That it happens on my rib, and there's my colleague and teacher Professor. Rainer, if we had 10 surgeons on Rebr who were tested for drugs, so you know what that would be, you know what that would be, it's similar in the Croatian Army, we have to face it, but the army is out of politics. I hope everyone learns from recent events and that I will no longer mention names now, but that our high official will not go to Slovenia or similar obscenities, they must be out of politics. They have to obey orders, they have to obey orders, but what's the order, not go to places where they don't belong.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96218	Thank you. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative, Josipi Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96219	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, so here is today's debate on the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of our Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of the activities of strengthening NATO's vigilance in Hungary in association with the Hungarian Armed Forces, the 70 soldiers we have sent and so far had in our missions and engagement of the Croatian Armed Forces in missions and deterrence activities and forward presence and strengthened our armed forces through training, through cooperation, through interoperability in NATO forces, our soldiers, officers and officers in all these operations have been praised. But today, when we are witnessing new security threats across NATO's borders, especially at the eastern borders of the NATO alliance, it is clear that our Armed Forces are necessary and obliged to participate in all operations and so on the wake of NATO's eastern wing. I don't think there's any doubt on the Defence Committee as well as in today's debates over those 70 soldiers we're going to send in the next period to Hungary. The threat that took place was a brutally zero-provoked aggressive war of the Russian Federation on the Republic of Ukraine which could actually have been envisaged and should have been envisaged by me because in 2014 when Crimea was being detected regardless of the nuclear neutralisation contracts of Ukraine, regardless of what happened and the surrender of the Crimean nuclear arsenal and the entire Ukraine had a guarantee of Russia's Federation on their freedom, sovereignty and independence. When this was violated in 2014 it was necessary to maximise the alertness and presence. It was supposed to work instantly and immediately. The same scenario took place in the Republic of Slovenia's military aggression, and later Serbia in association with the rebels on certain parts of the Republic of Croatia. A scenario similar to this took place in Kosovo by acting Serbia's army on the Republic of Kosovo. When human lives are threatened, when brutal aggression occurs, when all human potentials that suffer in such brutal aggression are disrupted when a weapon that is forbidden is necessary to act quickly and efficiently. NATO's alliance is therefore a military and political component that should respond to such threats, threats that threaten even nuclear war. The increased level of nuclear power in Russia is in fact clearly threatening the whole world. The focus of their rockets on western cities makes it clear that it is no longer a joke, but that brutal aggression is turning into a madness that needs to be put to an end as soon as possible. We believe that regardless of the security, the security and intelligence data we have and we know that even in our neighborhood for which protest or support gatherings are scheduled for our brother Russia, we cannot look blindly and deafly. On 12.3. in Banja Luka is held a support meeting for brother Russia. What does that mean? When the whole world talks about this nothing-provoked aggression having to stop, when convicted by the Russian president, all his servants and his subjects, all those who inflict evil on the Ukrainian people, they give support. and serve him [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] We support the sending of our forces [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] And we ask the Ministry of Defense to put our country's security first. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you, dear colleague Djakic.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96220	Dear Djakic, thank you very much. Please, come back, you've exceeded your time, but you've got a series of replicas. I'd also like to ask the future speakers not to exceed the time. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96221	Thank you, Vice President. You mentioned your colleague Djakić in the final part of your address exactly the activities that take place in the environment of the Republic of Croatia and I personally think that now is a great opportunity to put ourselves in this environment. Croatia cannot allow any form of aggression, it cannot allow any incident of such a type that can happen near our borders. We should not even mention how this would affect both our economy and our tourism. But we must also be aware of our roles, aware that we are the only EU member and that we are among the only NATO members in our closer environment and why we are running away from the role of leader in Southeast Europe. This is now being shown not only to suit us economically, but to be of interest to the security of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96222	Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96223	Yes, you've made a good point. It is clear and visible through everything we can read and what we can get as representatives in the Croatian Parliament as well as as members of the Defence Committee that is happening in the environment. I think the rulings about that nothing is going on that would endanger our chamomile tea borders, because even when there was a little economic subjugation on me in terms of the two Russian banks in the Republic of Croatia that then sold their capital to Serbia our security services were silent and I never heard of any clear comment on what was going on. So I also think of current services as not good judgments, because in our neighborhood... The secession is the same as that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Luhansky and Donetsk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96224	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96225	Thank you very much, Vice President, dear colleague Djakic. Two words dominate this topic. It's a wake-up call and... This is about the formation of a combat group that will be on the territory of the Republic of Hungary bordering Ukraine and that is fine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia is giving its pain and its membership in the NATO alliance. However, the same vigilance and deterrence is needed here in the borders of the Republic of Croatia and there is certain and the Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is precisely and by purchasing and these fighter groups of fighter planes and Bradleys and everything that seems to be doing in recent times is precisely working to ensure that all our neighbours know what our vigilance is and how important our intention to deter them is. When we look at and look at this geopolitical status that we've been in and the environment that we've found ourselves in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96226	Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96227	Thank you very much, dear colleague. So alertness and presence in order to deter is certainly good if it is effective and someone understands it. We can see for ourselves that in some of the neighbors, it acts as a chamomile and does not see it as a reality that should prevent conflicts in the future. I don't cause any conflict. I've had enough of war like any normal man. However, be careful in these situations first and foremost to be awake and prepared as if it would never happen, trained, and ready to defend yours should be constantly. So I think that our armed forces must increase the level of alertness and alertness, that reserve forces must experience certain exercises...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96228	Thank you. Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96229	That all those in need should be at their disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96230	Comrade Djakic, please don't make me interrupt you every time. I look rude in my eyes, and I have to interrupt you because you're out of time. Don't. Hey, buddy Brcic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96231	My colleague Djakic, in the time you just started answering the question I intend to ask, because after the Homeland War, we thought that some others were eventually impossible wars. However, the war in Ukraine has very quickly denied us. You mentioned hiring the reserve staff today. I think the idea deserves attention bearing in mind that yet a significant number of Croatian people have a war experience, has knowledge, and has power, certainly and will to give their contribution to the security of the Republic of Croatia in that segment, so here I am interested in your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96232	Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96233	Thank you very much. Of course, “the history is a teacher of life, ” and who in history does not learn it again suffers. Therefore, the warnings that are or the doubts we express are not inconceivable and should be taken seriously. All those who do not understand them have not understood them before. All those who do not respect them and who do not appreciate how they should be hurt or run away from the threat and are not threatened. Therefore, we as responsible men must be clear and unequivocal in that we must be prepared as if tomorrow at our borders they will call for weapons and that the first missiles will fall into our space, but also our reserves and soldiers with active forces must be ready.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96234	Dear Representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96235	Thank you very much. It's great to hear from Josip Djakic to call on the NNI, nothing to surprise us, I'm joking, but I like yours, your remark that is essential. This was all predictable, 8 years old. It was predictable. I've seen it as a criticism and as a self-critic. The critic of Ukraine that still in some segments could be better prepared regardless of the heroic resistance they are now providing is probably you know more about it or else you wouldn't say it, and the other might be just criticism and Croatia, perhaps to you, perhaps yourself, why we didn't send jokes, gloves, boots and all that we could send, if we sent, I apologize. I've been appealing to that for the past few months, at least reported at least 10 times. So this was really predictable, and this was clear and truly both sides had to be better prepared.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96236	Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96237	Well, thank you very much for all of this, for all of us to question today what we were supposed to do, to question ourselves, and after our Homeland War, whether we should have been more prepared, if we shouldn't have allowed the weapons of territorial defense to be delivered to the Southern Army, if we were to defend and make decisions together, in most cases we are not in some. All of this was predictable, especially for those with the best information. Our friendly NATO allies certainly had good information about what would happen in the future, prevention, forward alertness or front security, so we were in Poland, at the border of what was happening with Ukraine now under attack, we were closer than we are now putting soldiers. I don't know what the problem is, so this isn't the last mission. I believe this isn't the end of the story. A week, maybe even at night, we'll meet and make decisions that will be made for further purposes unless this worstial war is stopped.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96238	Thank you. Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96239	Thank you, Vice President. counterpart Djakic, certain services, but not those from the EU, had data that could happen in Ukraine, but no one assumed that Russian President Putin could go this far to even rocket hospitals, pregnant women, children, not to provide humanitarian corridors when agreed. NATO is obviously organising this decision that we are discussing today, and we will also make it on that trail. According to reports that we could see these days, SOA has been keeping an eye on the situation in our environment, and according to the information provided by the SOA director on my question today, the secretary of state has been told that the security situation is stable and there is no reason to worry, but from your statement my impression is somehow that you are still calling for greater vigilance.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96240	Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96241	Well, thank you, too, for commenting on my presentation. I'm a realist about the reality that's happening. A bit of a list of the Internet I see a call for 12.3 to support brother Russia. That's enough signal that a vampire ball will happen in Banja Luka. Everything else is clear, I don't want to explain the details after that, it happened in the '90s.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96242	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96243	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Djakić, I think it is very good that you have made it very clear that you have criticised what is Banja Luka's policy and willfully say Banja Luka is that it is not only one man's business but the entire one structure in both power and opposition, but I think there are two more things to be added, none of what is happening there can happen and is not happening without the blessing of Belgrade, I think it is the first. Another is the invitation and leaders of Bosniaks as the most numerous people, so they also have a special responsibility to accept Croats as equal partners, not to force Croats to go into some tactical cooperation with Banja Luka because they then put the whole of BiH in the context of a Serbian world. I think those two messages should also be added to what you specifically said about Banja Luka politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96244	Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96245	Thank you, fellow Stier, so it is clear and unequivocal a few days ago that Dodik called for an agreement with Putin on the secession of Republika Srpska. It's clearly written, I don't know who hasn't read it and seen it, don't our services see it, don't they know what their deal is? Realization, yes, the right moment is now, whether it will happen or not the question is now. Whether or not we will leave the Croatian people hanging in Bosnia or not, that's the question now. I wonder what we're going to do to prevent it is the vigilance of our armed forces, all our security services and us as agents.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96246	Thank you. The next one will be spoken by a respected representative, Stipan Sashlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96247	The Honorable Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we really are at one point when it's hard to say something new, something that might somehow help at this point... This aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine has surprised virtually the entire Western world, the whole of Europe, and also us in the context of it, regardless of what has been followed together, which was predicted, however, we can in some way conclude that Europe, the EU has been slightly swept in thanks to God for that long period of peace, and that they simply did not expect such a rave and development of the event eaten. We basically came up with a situation where these huge changes happened and I believe, unfortunately, that for a long time, nothing will be the way it was, as it was before. In all this evil that has practically affected all of Europe if we can call anything good, if anything can be good at all, it is the fact that there has been unification, that there has been an increase in the awareness of Europe of all EU members that only a common defence policy, that only the entire Western world can be defended with the help of I say to all the members, primarily led by NATO forces. Of course, it also requires certain separations, certain efforts and financial and each other, and that it will have to be submitted practically to all the members, or all of us in that circle. Until now, the Republic of Croatia has withdrawn or made several strategic decisions that have proved more than justifiable, correct and necessary today. Construction of LNG terminals on the island of Krk, stabilised or secured the energy security of the Republic of Croatia, the acquisition of multi-purpose warplanes Rafal also think that there is really no need to talk about it now, the purchase of combat vehicles, armored war vehicles Bradley significantly strengthened our defensive capabilities. All of this sort of costs and costs and is paid and will be paid in euro, dollars or other currencies. But we also know that freedom costs, and unfortunately, freedom is often paid, too. Mr. Lenart, freedom is unfortunately often paid [[Intruder Reiner: Comrade Lenart please let's not leave the scene.]] and in some other ways, and indeed the Republic of Croatia knows best all its citizens, and we hope that we will never again have to pay for freedom either ourselves or the entire EU. [[It's my fault.]] And that is why the Republic of Croatia, or its government, will still have to withdraw some kind of strategic decision, make strategic decisions to protect itself from all the threats that are unfortunately present these days and these weeks. All of these needs for a greater contribution, or the need for a common defence policy of the Republic of Croatia within the EU and NATO, I say, will require this strategic thinking and decisions which, I will only list some of which, at this point in time, might be worth the attention or need to consider, if, above all, the restructuring of the Croatian economy, the provision of sufficient and necessary amounts of reserves, in particular food, but also other supplies, or the possibility of adapting the Croatian industry to the needs and war industry. First of all, I mean the ability to produce my own pedestrian ammunition, artillery ammunition and other needs for the Croatian army. Further or considering whether the moment is now, I think it is, about the operational or strategic long-term peacetime schedule of our armed forces in the area of the Republic of Croatia. I think there's also room here, too, and there's a possibility that there's some things that we can agree on right now. Then training, or strengthening the Croatian Army's reserves, is primarily through an increase in the number of handbooks, which unfortunately are in relatively small numbers, but in a way that stimulates these people or young people to go, to serve in the manual. through an increase in their salary because it is unfortunately less than minimum wage today. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96248	Thank you very much. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96249	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor. At the beginning of your presentation, you talked about the need for both the community and the alliance on today's occasions, and we need to know that what we're sending our soldiers now is that it's actually a continuation of NATO's presence at its borders because the normal security situation requires us to do so, but normally it's an obligation for us as states to our allies. But we must all agree that only now is the clear trend since the 1990s and the first Croatian president to enter both the EU and NATO because when we see a situation today that we may not have imagined 10 or 20 years ago I think it would be in a completely different situation and that it would be much, much harder for us to approach such threats and not be members of the EU and NATO.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96250	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96251	Here you go, buddy. I really agree absolutely with you, joining NATO and joining the EU have always been the strategic goals of the Republic of Croatia and have been realised as such. And of course, as members of NATO and the EU, we must be responsible and behave in accordance with our status today. I was unfortunately unable to respond to the discussions of some of today's parliamentary representatives who remind me of the president of the neighbouring Republic of Vukic who in some ways would like to sit in two chairs. I don't think we can have to, we know we've clearly settled down where we belong, and that's how we have to behave. There's no room for us to do something with a fig in our pocket right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96252	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96253	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative, here are the witnesses of the aggression against Ukraine, but unfortunately we have such leaders in the world today who are not considering this with their own head so that certain misunderstandings can be resolved by conversation. Unfortunately, as long as we have such people, such dictators will always be wars and unfortunately we are witnessing despite the civilizational achievements that in fact most of these dictators reach for armed conflict. Here and unfortunately, 30 years ago, we had an armed conflict here, a country that had a claim against the Croatian state. I mean the Serbs and the brushes. And we've come, we've come to a situation where we've defended ourselves. However, now 100km from Zagreb, they call on their Friends of the Russians to be [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Support. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96254	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96255	My dear colleague, I appreciate your opinion, but I really don't think there's any reason to panic right now. We must trust our services, which work, which follow the situation in a closer environment. I used to work in those services myself, so I really know the situation pretty well, and if I could express myself in some kind of meteorological dictionary, I'd say it in a short way. I don't think there's a problem or there's no danger of some major cyclonal, cyclonal disorder, local showers and thunderstorms may unfortunately endanger the tourist season and therefore we need to be careful, but believe that this is being followed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96256	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96257	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Shaslin, according to my global food prices, grew by more than 20% to the UN in February, they will continue to grow because of these developments in Ukraine because we know that Ukraine and Russia together actually supplied 1/4 of the world's population with wheat and cereals. As much information as I have on wheat in China will fail, so the problem is general food supply. And you are with me in the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament, we warned last year when energy prices began to grow that it was important to prepare and come up with a strategy on how to fill the stock reserves. At the time, we were told that market disturbances could not be reacted through stock reserves, but now we have an extraordinary situation. I see the government has made a decision in that sense. Do you think those decisions are on time or would it be modeled late Marko to Kosovo coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96258	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96259	This fellow we see, indeed, that prices and prices of energy and food and all of some of the strategic products are wild, have started to really rage and go to heaven, but we cannot, unfortunately, have a significant impact on that, but we can influence the fact that we can still ensure that there are sufficient quantities of these strategic products. First of all, energy and food. According to the presentation and the minister and these days we follow it, we think that or we know that the stock reserves are sufficient and that Croatia should not have problems with these strategic products in the next period. In time, some measures were taken. As I was saying in my presentation in time, we made an LNG terminal, and in time we made some strategic decisions that we now have a bit of a relief and relief from this, this really difficult situation. A world that can't be affected. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96260	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96261	In the meantime, I just have to say that it's hard to believe that we're really ready, given the fact that we've been getting food for supplies before this whole crisis, and let's say some countries that are much more self-sufficient than us like Hungary are already prohibiting the export of some of their products, and we haven't changed anything in our policies until now when the prices are growing, so here's what I'm going to take with the skeptic. But I'd like to ask you something else. You were talking about getting military equipment. How do you interpret compliance when we talk about the purchase of military equipment, our military policies and decisions with those commitments we made as a NATO member state in terms of, for example, getting planes first, and then getting Bradleys, and we were supposed to get Bradleys as a NATO member and much earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96262	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96263	Thank you for your colleagues. So I really think that these precisely are the government's moves, or decisions that have been made exactly in line with those commitments that we have made as a member of NATO. This when you talk about Bradleys, Bradleys meet our obligations, our needs, creating one front battle to say armored mechanized battlefields, and that's enough now. Do we, God forbid if in 5-6 years we have the means and opportunities to buy even more modern means to happiness, but today those needs and those obligations that we have undertaken as part of NATO are absolutely satisfied with this technique that has been obtained, or which is in the process of procurement and which, soon, will arrive in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96264	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96265	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A question for you, therefore, when discussing the last budget, in fact in the last few times several clubs and individual representatives have proposed to increase certain items in the defence ministry's budget, for example. The Green-Left bloc club has proposed to significantly increase funds for cybersecurity, however, such amendments have been rejected. You talk about strengthening the production of ammunition in Croatia, therefore your own capacities were such proposals in the assembly, but such proposals were rejected. Do you think it would make sense to visit again and, therefore, return to those amendments and see if it makes sense to follow the suggestions, some of the suggestions that we made here in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96266	Dear Representative Shashin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96267	Yes, I would very much like to remind you of some other amendments, i.e. proposals that also came from this left side of the assembly where they proposed that the budget for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia should be reduced over four billion were proposed. Now, that's where the responsibility and maturity of a government is being expressed, which is able to assess real opportunities with real needs at a given time. This is what the Government has done, and I think it has indeed proved that all these decisions by the Government have so far been justified and more than justified and there is no reason for us to continue to doubt those decisions that await us, and let us unfortunately be aware that there will be a difficult decision and that unfortunately all of this together we will have to feel for ourselves in some way on our own skin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96268	The following will be spoken by Honorable Representative Zeljko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96269	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I would first look back even though it wasn't my plan to make fun of the smiles that came from the right side when our parliamentary representative, Mr Ostojic, said that the current situation is the merit of all governments. I'll look back on that from a cybersecurity aspect. Please tell me that not all governments have so far insisted on training our handbooks, that they did not insist on training our students and students in part of cybersecurity that they would send to Europe today? Who would participate in these actions today? Secondly, we might overestimate here a little too easily that we have enough food supplies. I will refer to the statement by Minister Vukkovic, who said this morning or yesterday afternoon that we are short 150 000 tonnes of grain until harvest. So we don't have enough food. We've got enough food in our stock reserves for as long as was predicted with our stock reserves. Therefore, food is insufficient and needs to be taken care of. What we're going to do, how we're going to take it is government and executive. Furthermore, I would like to remind some parliamentary MPs who have already had the presentations and who will have the presentations actually talk about two topics. One is the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of NATO's increased vigilance activities in Hungary, and the second is a proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in activities within the EU's permanent security cooperation project. It means EU. That's two levels. The debate is united, but we're not talking about the same thing. Please, in our presentations later and in replicas, we take care of it. I would actually like to look most at these cybernetic response teams and for mutual assistance in cyber security, because I said already in my replica we have a really impressive number of ITs in the Republic of Croatia. We have about 60,000 of them, and as I've already said, a part of those experts came out of military schools and military academys, and a number of them also had their own private companies that have achieved enviable successes on our market, especially people experts who have left military academys. You probably know who I'm talking about. Not to name it now and not to make a commercial for certain companies. I think there's some things you need to regain consciousness. Mr. Djakic, please let go. They're having a party. You want tickets? As for cybernetic response teams and mutual assistance, we need some things to clarify. [[Please let's let our colleagues have some courtesy. Let's let the speaker talk.]] This is not just about protecting military IT infrastructure, it's not just about the IT infrastructure of police or IT infrastructure of public administration. We need to be aware of what we're benefiting from this information infrastructure. We need to be aware that we live with it every day. We need to be aware that one of our average citizens spends every day on that infrastructure for a few hours and that each of us when he comes to the store and when he pulls a card he's actually dependent on that infrastructure. Therefore, these few soldiers who will go, or members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia who will go to these cybernetic teams, will not only protect the military, the police, but will protect all of us. And that's what we need to take care of. These are people who have special knowledge, who have special knowledge and if I were asked myself, I would be in these teams if it was possible either to join or include a number of civilian experts working in our large companies and dealing with security because it's good for Croatia and it's good for these companies. And if that's in any way possible, if it's not different to think about it and try to maybe make some kind of amendment or change of law that can be done, because that's what we're going to depend on. See what happened to Russia? What a propaganda, what a blockade it was. And now look at what war is going on right now in this information space? See what Zelenski's doing? See what Putin's doing? But don't forget that we're not just addicted to that information, but we're dependent on bank payments, we're addicted to sharing information with each other. So if it's all hacked together, if it's going to be insecure, we're not going to go well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96270	We now have the replicas of the respected representative Selak Rasdic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96271	There is no week that we discussed exactly the cybersecurity certificate here in the Croatian Parliament. In that sense, I wanted to ask you a question about the SCAU system that SOA is talking about, which should serve precisely to defend against these cyber security threats that come from other governments. But now you've opened up another question, an information war that is also related to cybersecurity, and I'm wondering how you're assessing the censorship that is present on both sides as a solution to the problem of the information war? On the one hand, we hear about restricting social networks in Russia, and on the other hand, in the west, some media, for example, Russia Today, have been abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96272	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96273	If you've been following up on some of our presentations and you're a college professor, you've probably listened to some of the roundtables, then you've actually heard that the data, or information today, is extremely important and is very valuable. Whoever has the information has the power, so that's what happens today in Russia, that's what happens in Ukraine today, that's what happens in Europe today. Unfortunately, some powerful men have given themselves the right to try some countries that are not involved in war conflicts directly, to try to misinformed them and thus actually do harm and all those involved in this war should later respond. It's not just, it's not just about human casualties, it's about other guy's victims. But we'll talk about it a little bit, I think I'll talk to you about it, maybe have a little coffee, now I don't want to hang around the pay phone if it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96274	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96275	Thank you very much. A respected colleague, when you look at the SOA's cybersecurity pages, then it clearly states that global cyber threats are on the rise and that the Republic of Croatia as a member of NATO and the EU is indeed more targeted at attacking different and even state-sponsored cyber attacks. You have brought us a little closer to information security issues in your presentation and given us some additional information that does not stand in this motion for a decision. I'd like to ask you a little more detail as to whether you're in favour of mobilizing information security experts or if you have a proposal for a different approach to involving civilian experts in cybersecurity, did you mention them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96276	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96277	Yes, I mentioned it, and I think that there should be a greater number of experts involved in such activities, given that these are people who have special knowledge, special knowledge, and I think that these skills should be passed on to others. Namely, when I asked the secretary before, would you work at the level of Europe to make this towards... will actually use a variety of equipment, it was said to be used, in fact, that the goal is to use one equipment to make it easier to keep it all together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, it is necessary for all these systems, and for the intrusion prevention systems and detection systems, for antiviral protection, for various firewalls, for detected data-relation threats, there should be special experts who know how to deal with it, and you can't get that knowledge within 5 days or 15 days, it's done for months, and you have to work on certain.../incomprehensible/... on certain machines, on certain software to master it completely, in order to really fully protect the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96278	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96279	Dear colleague. ... You mentioned food, our reserves, which we will eat in the future since our stock reserves have 15 kilograms of wheat per capita and 2.5 kg of meat and there is one big if, that they do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since Croatia's agricultural policy has been so bad for decades that it doesn't stimulate our agricultural producers that they don't have to sell the grain immediately after harvest, but that they can keep it, which means they're richer, we could keep it until some period of the year when we could sell it more expensive, and that would make our reserves bigger, but I've already, several times, here, warned here and I'm using one term that we're one step up to hunger, which was funny to many, but it's getting less funny in view of the global situations that are currently happening. Do you think we should have a rich peasant and that he must be the one who can? Save this grain, don't you think, country? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96280	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96281	Dear colleague. I'm glad you asked that question because it's actually a question and it gives one that, or we force one finding, which is that your words actually had a great deal of weight when you talked about it a few months ago and when you warned that we were one step away from the vote. Then no one believed it, there were some laughs, but today it turns out we're actually very close to it. I don't need to panic, but I think we need to talk to the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Economy, the Department of Stock Reserves, the Minister of Agriculture, and tell us what our plans are. If you remember, I had one replica here when I asked the Minister of Agriculture what and why, what does or why not activate a fully unprocessed agricultural land in Croatia. What answer did I get? I didn't get an answer at all, and now it's gonna prove to be very important. Because look, all the grains in Ukraine will simply not be sown and who will be left without food? That's a big question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96282	Thank you. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative Davor Ivo Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96283	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today we have a united debate because we have to make two decisions, one about sending our troops to Hungary under one of NATO's operations, the other is the deployment of a cyber team within the framework of PESCO, which is within the framework of strengthening European defence capacities. So, two decisions that already point to one first conclusion, which is that strengthening European defence capacities, achieving European strategic autonomy is not and cannot be and must not be directed against NATO or against America, but must actually be together, both are complementary and Croatia is looking at it in this way and I think it is the only right way. That's the first conclusion. Secondly, a lot of colleagues have said that to make these decisions, we need to look at a broader geostrategic context or give such a single framework, and I think that's okay. I will try only briefly in this time to say something, and it is primarily that clearly these decisions are made in, made in the context of aggression on Ukraine, a war in Ukraine that has not been caused and I will repeat it once again because of the expansion of NATO and I mention it because more than once in the public, not only in Croatia, but in Croatia it was also mentioned that in me entirely guilty thesis. The reason for the war is simply Russian aggression is the concept of one attempt to create a Russian world, one Russian sphere of influence, not the expansion of NATO. If it hadn't been for the expansion of NATO today, we might have seen such destruction in the countries of the former Warsaw Pact, so much closer to our borders because we have experience and what happened in Budapest in '56, including the Prague Spring of '68. So, if it was trying to create or recreational some Russian sphere of influence, and if it hadn't been for the expansion of NATO, then it would have gone towards those former members of the Warsaw Pact who wanted to join the EU once when they gained their freedom to sovereignly decide who they wanted to join and what alliance they wanted to join NATO and they wanted to join the EU and they did so. The way Russian politics wanted to prepare this and legitimize you will find it in a very interesting book by Shaun Walker, so the British Guardian journalist, let's say left orientation, translated into Croatian, you can find it here in the library in the assembly, he says about what Putin is trying to do with '45. In fact, forget '89, so he manipulated that victory over Nazism and fascism to make sure that, in order to forget the fall of the Berlin Wall, the fall of communist dictatorships and then '91. and the collapse of the Soviet Union which he had experienced and so said as the collapse of historical Russia. So, there is not so much perhaps and important ideology, but this idea of Russia as an empire, as an empire that must have its own sphere of influence and that every one of these ideology helps this geopolitical being Marxism or Leninism, was panslavism, any political Orthodoxy, in any case everything that strengthens it will use for such a geopolitical goal. And that's the context, that's this geostrategic framework in which today, unfortunately, a terrible war and aggression is happening in Ukraine. What we are deciding today is then one deterrent measure just to show as a defence alliance that this expansion of NATO was right, was an additional contribution to peace and stability in Europe, that these ambitions of creating some sphere of influence cannot now go to these former members of the Warsaw Pact or to new NATO members, because of course this would lead to a conflict of nuclear forces which is unimaginable and that we all expect and we know that this simply shouldn't do so, because of all possible consensus and of course that in Moscow they know and in this context this deterrent measure have very much their own justification, and therefore we must also support this one of the measures that we are discussing today and which we will vote on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96284	We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96285	When we talk about the defence of European space most recently, we are talking about it in the context of NATO. However, the debate on the European Army and on the so-called ‘European Army’ has been quite up-to-date. military Schengen, therefore, is the question of whether and how Europe can be jointly defended and self-defense against military threats. On that trail, I would like to know what your opinion of the European Army's capabilities and capabilities and so on. military Schengen and its functionality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96286	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96287	Yes, thank you for that question, so on the trail of what I said in the debate, so Europe must strengthen its defence capacities, it must simply develop, PESCO is a good mechanism to do so. However, again clearly I say, Europe, the EU has never been one, one non-classified entity, it has always been a part of the West. The EU has also emerged in context if you want terrible events since World War II, but also threats to then the Communist Russia or the Soviet Union. She was never unclassified, she was an ally of America, and today she is and so still by me must and be an integral part of the West and ally of the United States, but she must have her own, its own capacity that she can also act strategically.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96288	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96289	Thank you, Vice President HS. A respected colleague, the commander of NATO forces, the US general said Putin had succeeded in a week what he as commander failed at the 4th year. The behaviour of this function and I now hope that NATO's alliance will remain firm and stable together with the EU. However, we have had an aggression of JNA and Serbs to the Republic of Croatia and we have won, what do you think will be the course of further war in Ukraine and will this alliance really remain stable given that interests are diverse and the question is whether there will be any influence and that this alliance would not have a short, short age? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96290	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96291	Thank you. Yes, my colleague, I know Admiral Stavridis, so the former commander of the NATO forces who gave that statement that in some way Putin achieved what he did not while serving this NATO-led force. It was hard to convince, for example, at that time. Germany must increase investment in defence, it must reduce rather than increase dependence on Russian energy, it was one of Berlin's guilty policies at the time, and it is good that Berlin changes direction and changes policy in this context. Of course, the reason now is that it was not theoretical but we can see, unfortunately, that the preparedness of Russia's aggression is quite current. NATO will remain my key to stability and security in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96292	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96293	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Stier, you are a good acquaintance of geopolitical events in both Eastern and Western Europe. I would say that cybernetic protection and the protection of strategic resources that Croatia has will be two fronts of defence that we must well strengthen during which time is ahead because simply without it I think we are much weaker. It is also the sending of soldiers of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to dress, to be part of that world that is something good. Now, what is, and in your replica, you have pointed out to some other MPs is the environment in which we are, which is very complex, very flammable and every moment should be awake and cautious when it comes to these borders that Croatia has with these countries in our immediate environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96294	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96295	Thank you, colleague Ivanovic, for asking. I think we've mentioned here several times what we need to do specifically, and we've been doing this and for a long time now is this attempt to imitate this Russian world, and the Russian sphere of influence in the form of the Serbian world. That's what we talked about here more than once, and we even wrote not yesterday, not a few weeks ago, but a few years ago. And just now it has shown how important it is to monitor that this does not happen, but to do something else, which is to Europeanise the area of Southeast Europe. So it should be on what all the countries so-called. The Western Balkans are working to create some sphere of influence. As far as cybersecurity is concerned, I absolutely agree with you. I think that should further strengthen European capacities. In this regard, we should also support this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96296	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96297	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Stier, you've been in foreign policy for a long time and you have experience with similar situations in other parts of the world, so I'd like to hear your opinion. What do you think about Putin's plan to run over Ukraine within 2 days, to bring down the legally elected government, to place his puppet government there, given that this plan doesn't go anywhere near what he planned, do you see it as the beginning of the end of the Putin era, or how the world might look nice without Vladimir Putin?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96298	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96299	Thank you, colleague, for that question that I think has one, one, or needs one, a little deeper thought. About which it may be difficult to say in a few seconds. Of course, we all condemned Vladimir Putin's decision to start an aggression, but I think we'd be wrong if we thought everything could only come down to one person. So sometimes these are the structures that work and when you're setting or moving only one person you haven't actually addressed the real cause, the real problem. The real cause is this ambition to create actually one sphere of influence that in this way actually threatens the sovereignty of neighbouring countries. That's the real reason Putin is now implementing, but the real reason is that, and we need to focus on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96300	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96301	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Stier, yesterday on the Committee on European Affairs, we discussed the EU together so nicely, and you have now touched one part in your debate when you talked about how you see and how, so part of how you see PESCO and the role of PESCO. I'm interested in actually expanding that thesis a little if you can, or these ideas. The EU is looking for its own me, and yesterday we discussed that Sui Genis this constant process of searching for the future of the Union and what it should be. How deep integration should be, for example, in the area of defence, given that this is generally imagined in this context as something which is the competence of the Member States. So, how much ha I'm gonna like that under the supposed signs of federalization being here in this case is good, by you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96302	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96303	Yeah, well, you see, we have a colleague, Glavasevic, for example. NATO, which is an intergovernmental organisation, is therefore not a Federation, and yet it works and has kept peace from actually being founded and having won that cold war in some way without ever entering direct confrontation. I believe there will be no direct confrontation between NATO forces and Russian forces now. So, the issue of European defence policy and capacity building I think is necessary, but not in the sense that it is separate or even opposed to the position of America but that it is coordinated to be part of the West. Why does Europe have to strengthen? Well, because even today, the United States isn't like it was in '45. when representing, for example, 50% of the world's GDP. Today, America needs stronger Europe, but then Europe has the right, of course, to have its own. autonomy in decision-making. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96304	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96305	Your Honor, strengthening Europe is not an idea since yesterday. If we remember a speech in Zurich by statesman Winston Churchill, we know that he has already proposed that Europe unite and move forward. But it's not my question, I just want to support yours, this one, thesis, that it's extremely important and that we have to work in that direction. My question is about countries that have had a completely different policy so far. For Sweden which was practically neutral, Finland which was neutral, Switzerland which was neutral and Germany had not delivered arms so far. It is not at all disputed to build a new world order, however, what is now a problem, we have been taught so far that those countries within the EU have some status, have some way of acting, that this is clearly changing. What does this mean for the EU and what does it mean for other EU countries?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96306	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96307	Yes, a colleague certainly means that NATO is not cerebrally dead, as some said a few years ago, and who viewed the strengthening of these European defence capacities as a way to distance Europe from the United States, some in America have also asked America to move away from the EU. It was simply not a path that would strengthen the West as a geopolitical concept. What needs to be strengthened is European defence capacities, working with Americans as our allies, but that Europe has its own strategic autonomy and in this respect, you can see that precisely because of this aggression, this logic is once again becoming much more understandable and the countries that have been reserved according to this way of thinking, and that is why they are changing attitudes today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96308	Dear Representative Brcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-10-0.u96309	A fellow representative, here, has been mentioned repeatedly that the events of Russia's attack on Ukraine are one of those events that we, as a young Republic of Croatia, had in the early 1990s. I would mention, however, that we, in my own court, were even in a difficult situation because we were a young country, we had an embargo on arms imports. Today, there has been a lot of talk here about security, endangering security as one important basis for all the progress and survival of a society and a particular state. I'm curious, here's what you'd say, structures, not to mention Putin alone, in case the war plan isn't happening, and we see, it's not how they imagined it, is it possible for some irrational events, which in a large way threatens security, and also, if they came to the realization of their plans, it encourages them, and here today we mentioned to Banja Luka, means the same procedures. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
