ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u102800	Thank you. Respected, after Croatia submitted its strategic plan for the common agricultural policy at the end of last year, the European Commission is in line with Article 118. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The letter of observation was delivered on 31 March. In view of the new circumstances of the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the continued generalised increase in prices of goods, the Commission recommended that everyone firstly ensure the integrated link between climate measures and food safety. In the context of the climate crisis and the biodiversity crisis, Member States should review their strategic plans for the common agricultural policy in order to take advantage of all possibilities. And this involves strengthening the resilience of the EU agricultural sector because we want to reduce their dependence on synthetic fertilisers and increase renewable energy production without undermining food production and transform our production capacities in line with more sustainable production methods. Unfortunately, however, Croatia has received a second largest number of objections to its plan. Croatia received its reply within the scheduled deadline, a letter of observation on 55 pages consisted of 2 parts, key issues and detailed observations. A total of 413 objections to the proposed Croatian strategic plan. This is the second largest number of objections from the commission received from a total of 21 countries that have received their own letters of observation so far. One reason may be that Croatia has not prepared well for the process of drawing up a strategic plan. The basic guidelines of the common agricultural policy for the period from 2023 to 2027 were set in 2018. The strategy from field to table saw the light of the day 2019. Croatia received the European Commission's recommendations on 18.12.2020. Almost all countries immediately began the process of making and planning. Croatia only went more seriously into its creation in 2021. Another reason may also be the question whether we have been institutionally sufficiently mastered by the strategic planning process, taking into account the objectives set by the common agricultural policy and the green plan. It was already in the manufacturing process that Croatia only slightly accepted recommendations received by the commission. Although the competent institutions claimed that Croatia was better placed compared to other countries compared to the green requirements and objectives set by the Commission with the new CAP by 2030, the data from Annex 1 and the number 2 of the recommendations mentioned show that we are at the bottom of the scale, according to all indicators. We're on some indicators even at the bottom. For example, phosphorus load and coverage are widely explained via the Internet. When we talk about key issues, the Commission considers that ambition with regard to fairer, more efficient and more efficient directional distribution of direct payments, therefore support could be further increased in particular with regard to directing the structure chosen for the redistribution of payments and called for a review of the redistribution strategy. Croatia is called for more information on how it copes with a number of challenges at national level, for example. the access of farmers to the land and capital that we have talked about here many times and warned the ruling. Then, better conditions for land transfer between generations and so forth. All to ensure the effectiveness of interventions from the strategic plan aimed at a lower dependence on food imports, higher income from farmers, especially our young farmers. As Croatia has set itself the goal of strengthening primary producers in the value chain and moving to products with higher additional value, sectoral interventions in other sectors are lacking in addition to those of binding producers, which are fruits and vegetables, beekeeping, wine. The Commission calls on Croatia to consider whether such an approach is in line with the identified needs for increasing productivity and efficiency. The agriculture minister with her team will still have to consider further how to write a strategic plan for a better score. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u102891	Here are my colleagues, Buric, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u102892	Thank you, dear president of HS. Honorable MPs and MPs. Since the payment of an energy supplement or one-time monetary income of up to $1,200 on Friday began, and for all pensioners who have a pension below 4,100 kuna, I think it is also appropriate to say something important to say about this important measure, but also generally on the pension system, and all in fact in the context of today's rebalancing which follows through which the budget of the Ministry of Labour, Pensions, Family and Social Policy has been increased by more than 3 billion kuna. So, this government, the HDZ government and Prime Minister Plenkovic secured half a billion kuna for about 735,000 pensioners, all with the aim of easing the effects of energy price hikes. So those who have a pension of up to 1,600 kuna will receive a one-time fee of 1,200 so almost double and that fee HZMO started paying as I said last Friday, and all pensioners who have a pension of less than 4,100 kuna will get more and vice versa. I stress that within a year this government has paid or paid two one-time pension fees to the pensioners, both of them up to 1,200 kuna were first a covid supplement, and now it is an energy supplement and I believe that the government is in the spirit of solidarity, and I am free to say in the spirit of Christian solidarity it has responded in a timely, adequate manner and protected those who have less and at the time of some other governments it has not been so, but I will talk about it later. In the last 5 and a half years, all pensions have increased by 20% in total, and pensions for those receiving the lowest pensions have increased by more than 26% and this rebalance for further pension increases provides an additional billion and 716 million kuna. The comparison works throughout the mandate of the government that was in power since '11. until '15. So the SDP government's pensions grew by only 4.5%, noting that we're talking about the time of the global economic crisis, and now it's an energy and health crisis, but different crisis management models have shown in fact who knows and who delivers what results, so the results were delivered between '11 and '11. And in '15. were the outbreak or take of 4.5 billion kuna from personal accounts from II. the pension column to cover the 2015 budget, so it was a well-remembered separation of pensions at the expense of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, but I won't talk much about it, but I think it's important to know the chronology of bad governance from that time. Today and the last 5.5 years. The situation is certainly different, better and fairer and completely different from what was in the previous governments I talked about. Since pensions are being guarded and jobs I will say something about labour market dynamics, so despite all the challenges that we face since the war in Ukraine than the covids that cost us more than 42 billion kuna, from earthquakes that have done financial damage like three crowns, we today still have a record number of employees, namely the million and 599 thousand and 510, which is 12.5 thousand more than in record 2008 and today, compared to the same time, we have as many as 42 thousand more employees last year. At the same time, the number of unemployed falls continuously, and today it is about 112 thousand. What I must also say is that despite all the challenges and crises, governments have managed to ensure their systematically linked measures both the conditions for wage growth and the growth of pensions, social rights, increase the total number of employees, etc. This is why other economic measures are also the latest rating of Fitch credit rating is a confirmation of the Croatian investment credit rating level BBB with positive growth prospects, which is certainly a message of economic stability for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u102893	Thank you very much, thank you. Injury of my colleague Brumnic's Rules of Procedure, please be my guest. [[Intruder: Please]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u102894	The Honorable President of the Assembly has been injured. In 238, insulting all citizens of this country, especially those who are Christians and who know what Christian solidarity is. Explaining from this speaker that Christian solidarity is to make 5 billion more deficits and 5 hundred million to give to citizens is to insult common sense and all those who know what Christianity is.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u102895	Comrade Brumnic, you are being warned of course Why? [[/Intruder: Why?]] If you don't know why you're leaving, here's your Rules of Procedure, so study it and don't do it, this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, this is a simple replica and incorrect because everyone can do it, so there's no need for these free speeches. Comrade Zekanovic, I see you've been looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u102896	Mr President-in-Office of the Assembly. 238, I'll risk my warning, my colleagues would answer for my grandmother's flour. I was thinking that I would like to raise the injury of the Rules of Procedure when colleagues Raukar and Oreshkovic, with a smile, mocked a colleague with a smile on her lips when she mentioned Christian solidarity. It's not your problem because you're a Christian but it's the opposite of your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u102897	Your colleague Zekanovic and you get a warning, the same thing as your colleague Brumnic. My colleagues, Raukar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u102898	In the 238th demeaning of parliamentary deputies, I will repeat one joke from the beginning of the '90s, which is the difference between small and large Croats, the kid was baptized as small and large. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u102899	You get, you get a warning, come on, please let's go back to serious debates. Here's a colleague of Hajdash Doncic's. Let's move on. Now it is the Club of Representatives of the CENTR and GLAS's esteemed colleague Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u102992	What's the secret of healthy states, what's the secret? I think it's about independent institutions that keep their integrity and the word of the profession. In healthy states, the DORH does not listen to political orders through a telephone, stick to its powers and act on their reports, not waiting for their unhappiness and environment to expose the heroic exploits there by some Genrek Maya. HOPE and DORH must be better, but what would happen is that they really work better and that without the pardons they arrest all the corrupt ministers of this government. The government would have fallen as long ago as it should have, but sooner or later a final verdict would have fallen, as it had failed against Eve Sanader. Because the Constitutional Court doesn't like the water to wave too much. He loves the system of double criteria he showed when he released Milan Bandic from custody for two million kunas. After all, he also showed by the approval of the disgraceful conduct of the covid headquarters. What decisions can we expect in the first place from the Constitutional Court, which, according to instructions, goes into taverns where Šeparović and Bačić and other HDZs enjoy the benefits of good fish. It would be good if the party for the heads of state institutions didn't choose its godmothers and other expended personnel. I have no information on what will happen to Tomislav Karamark now. All I know is he's not going back to where he was, because no one's even looking for him, no one's calling him. The Constitutional Court has served well to bring the commission to an abortion under the cover of decision-making in his case, so that Plenkovic is not accidentally touched by the commission. It's a shame the Constitutional Court doesn't care that much. The inability to exercise the right to abortion is not seen by constitutional judges. They don't care that we have unconstitutional electoral units, they don't care that politics ignores what was said in 2010 and that our authority for fairer electoral laws is only fighting within the borders of another state, and we don't have a state, because we don't have independent institutions. But that's why we have ethical codes from the government to every municipality that serves just to wipe something out with them like toilet paper. So what do we do now?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u102993	And the representative has to be healthy. Let's move on now. Comrade Bačić, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u102994	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 238 has been injured. A colleague, Oreskovic, disrespects other MPs, and forgets to tell us what these were criteria when she, as an anonymous lawyer, came to the head of a state institution such as the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. What were the criteria? Or what are the criteria when you won without a tender work at JANAF? How did that happen? [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] In what way? That's what you tell us here, and don't tell us. to teach others. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u102995	You get a warning from your colleague Bačić. We are going to the fifth debate of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, a respected colleague, Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103079	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, IDAHO or International Day of Combating Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia was celebrated yesterday. And I think it's good to say once again from this pay phone because we've heard here calling for the dignity of every citizen, which means and what it means for our fellow citizens of LGB orientations. ILGA is the International lesbian gay organization publishes one map each year, a map of Europe. Here it looks like this and by percent each country has a certain percentage. The highest percentage are the highest rights achieved and in practice and formally, the minimum percentage of LGBT population rights achieved. She's usually in color, unfortunately I don't have a color printer to show you how it moves. Where is Croatia? Croatia is somewhere in the middle with 45% and would immediately declare some likely victory and would say it is great, if it were excellent, in contrast to Azerbaijan and Turkey, which are the lowest with 2 and 4% to possibly the best Denmark and Belgium with 74 and 72%, respectively. However, you know for yourself that every statistic is the exact sum of incorrect data, and what does this mean in the everyday life of our fellow citizens? The procession of pride so you know as it comes although for years thank God there are no incidents on the procession itself, but unfortunately there are still around the procession, there are still attacks on the participants. Here is the town of Zagreb yesterday, and this is a good initiative as part of the celebration of 20 years of the first procession of pride one bench on Zrinjevac painted in the lengths of color. In a very express time, that bench was painted, or someone covered it with other colors. And who's the problem with these color lengths? These lengths of colors that signify only love, equality, and respect, seem to bother some still. The flags, the lengths of flags you can see in the squares of the city of Zagreb are also subject to vandalism, being torn away. Who's got a problem with them? Unfortunately, we still have hate crimes that happen every day, but sometimes LGBT members themselves are not aware that they are hate crimes, and some police try not to label them because of better statistics. And here we need a lot more, a lot of education from the Department of the Interior. At the end of the day, the rights of our LGBT citizens are still denied. We've had an appeal to the consciences of the matriarchs who didn't want to make same-sex communities, the appeal of consciences are obviously in fashion these days. There was also talk of a constitutional court. Here's what kind of state we are that we don't meet constitutional court decisions when most people don't like them, and that's to say that same sex couples still can't foster children, and institutions for carefree children, for abandoned children, they're still full of children. I haven't seen those big moralists that are so against someone's love and the fostering of children that they've fostered all those children yet, and you have couples who want it, but I can't do it. We have to get a colleague and a colleague to catch up with a lot of phobias in our society. From xenophobia that is also present to here, Europhobia, homophobia, transphobia, biphobia, and while some percentages say one thing, I think the situation is actually quite different. I really can't believe someone could bother someone to love each other. I really can't believe that someone can be bothered that someone wants to give abandoned children a home, love, and family. The other day we were marking Family Day. Family isn't just a man, children and women. The family are both a single father or a mother with children and a couple without children and two fathers and children and two mothers and children and grandparents and children, these are all families, colleagues and colleagues, who in some way symbolise this length of the flag, different colors for different families. So I also invite you from this pay phone to fight for the dignity of each of our citizens including LGBT citizens, and since I have already heard announcements from this pay phone that you will fight hard for the dignity of all our citizens, I expect from colleagues and colleagues to join me here, especially the Mosta Club, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103135	Let's go to the third exhibition, Club of Representatives of the Mosta, dear colleague Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103136	Mr. Jandrokovic, the esteemed Mr. Bukarica, respected colleagues, colleagues, Croatian peoples. A thousand times, however, hundreds of thousands of times is the most difficult truth, the harshest truth than the sweetest lie because the lie always leads to final slavery, the lie always leads to darkness and the truth ultimately writes in an ancient book, the truth always releases, and today I'm going to ask a few questions here. Who is responsible for the process of pauperisation that happens in Croatian society? Who is responsible for this process of impoverishing Croatian citizens where the gas bottle is 180 kn, where the oil goes to 20 kn, where the fuel goes to 20 kn, who is responsible? These are all your COVID policies. Lockdown, all of this has led to this. Inflation has been the worst in 14 years. Today it's written by the daily press and we're talking fairy tales and bass. We want to live in the truth, couldn't we hear here from the health minister specific data and the facts that he knew that Pfizer had published to his shareholders, so I'm going to talk, I'm going to jump on the head of course, picturesquely telling the truth, he announced to his shareholders that people who were being vaccinated had the immunity so strong that they didn't need to force them to be vaccinated, who got over it, as well as those who got vaccinated once. Prof. Dr. Sc. ... Dragan Primorac published scientific research with the world's team of scientists and said that cellular immunity is so strong for those over-experienced and once vaccinated that it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What interesting group, the mafia if you will, is the pandemic behind people being forced to do something they don't want against their freedoms and consciences? If we live in the truth, could we have learned all that information and informed consent so that people could decide for themselves? In a few days, 23, the World Health Organization is in session and say it will then enter deeper into the information, into which models and ways the Health Union will participate in the implementation of future pandemics COVID policies. So they all have crystal balls, the German Health Minister said that in the fall, the virus is waiting for us more dangerous than the delta, and it's going to spread stronger than the omicrons, that's what the man said, not me. Then we have this team of "good guys" who are back in the interest groups, who claim to be waiting for us in the fall, so the fatal virus, that's what people say responsibly. So which crystal ball do they have to see? And then we have our constitutional judges, "our", family-related, godmothers connected here to MPs, Separovic, president of the court, connected to the HDZ summit of the party, and then what do they do? They're taking the citizens' referendum and not just kidnapping the referendum, I guess that's the fifth one they stole, but what do they say? That the citizens have been sub-capacitated. Citizens, you're actually stupid. You're a little stupid, you don't need us when you're thinking with your head but we need you to vote when you have to, and then you know what you're doing, then you know what you're doing, but now that you've got your attitude, when 400,000 citizens of the Republic said give us a referendum, watch out, they're so afraid of the referendum they don't know how people would react, right, in a referendum, they could water their own machinery to their mill, but they're afraid of Croatian people. What kind of authority is that afraid of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? What kind of half-trons, servants, those who drink from the hand of power and sit on their chair pedestals? And then they insult Croatian citizens. You know what, the fall will come soon, the bridge will be ready for sure, now it's ready and I invite all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to come to us, we'll be on the ground from Monday to Sunday, every day, passing every house and every street, and connecting people and if they squeeze us, and that's their plan, and if they squeeze us, so we won't keep quiet, so here I am looking at my fellow Members here, and I know we won't be alone for sure. I'm sure we won't be alone. In the fight for freedom and dignity of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103221	We're going to the eighth debate Green-left bloc representatives club and respected colleague Raukar-Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103222	Thank you. He doesn't know if he'd cry or laugh anymore. Minister Banozic has a criminal application. With his personal decisions and influence, he de facto damaged the state by several million amounts, thereby committing several crimes, abuse of positions and powers, unlawful bargaining and trade in influence. Known? Yeah. Yeah, that's the stalker sprawl of how ministers work in the government of Andrej Plenkovic, it's just a copy pasture from application to application. According to a record that went public with great pain and effort of journalists, of course, although it should be made publicly available, it is clear from that record that it damaged the state by several million kunas. He was also very upset because Maja Djerek, today's whistle, imagine sealing the state property of the family of Rodic, who has not paid rent for years. The Rodic family, that is, it is a successful Zagreb entrepreneurs they have several state-owned properties in rent, and how they would not be successful if they paid nothing, and protected by the state-owned minister himself. It is a safe recipe for business success, very well known and often used in the Croatian country of business miracles. The cousins did well. But we return to Banožić because assistance to Rodic and similar successful entrepreneurs by damaging the state budget for a few million is not everything. It has been officially confirmed that Banozic himself has been assigned to his apartment, to use a large state apartment on which at least 36,000 kuna was spent, although he was previously assigned a smaller apartment and already arranged, of course he does not have the conditions for this larger apartment because his family does not live in Zagreb. By the way, our Banožić even rudely insulted Mr. Selak, a legendary pilot who carried MIG to Croatia during the war. And what does the Prime Minister say about that? It is no longer possible to count which one is the minister against whom a criminal application is filed with very unpleasant evidence. And Andrej Plenkovic instead of covering his ears and finally resigning he and his entire government, no, he calls the state's attorney and asks her not to succumb to media pressures. As official records have been published in the media, from which Mr. Banožić's clear work is being made known, our prime minister is actually telling the state's attorney not to succumb to the evidence. It should be devoted to the one whose majority has chosen and appointed her and turned her head against the evidence because, of course, the prime minister does not want to be alarmed again by the minister's early Saturday arrest and is still publicly boasting about the invitation, however, he publicly orders Mrs. Hrvoje Šipek to watch her work. And a few days earlier, he also told the Constitutional Court that he did not intend to execute their order and refer to the new Law on Medical Interruption of Pregnancy. E and the Prime Minister just don't plummet the constitutional court. Mladen Delic would cry out to my people if it was possible and as far as it goes. The ministers fall on each other's charges of trade in influence and abuse of position and authority, and he threatens and gives public instructions to the state's attorneys not to prosecute it, he calmly tells the constitutional court who's cutting your hair. Is this the European policy? It is already foolish to repeat a notorious fact that for such situations in any civilised country, both the prime minister and the entire government would fly. Their own majority in their parliaments would shake them off. And with us at all, can you imagine that most of us would do such a thing, can you imagine that the president of the assembly would put on the agenda because of this disbandment of the assembly and the new elections? You can't, of course, because corrupt, unmotival, immoral, illegal behavior is rewarded, not condemned. Crime defends itself until the last drop of blood, not exposes because the ruling majority obediently, immorally, follows the leader unspeakably whatever he does and speaks. Banozic, Paladina, Beroš then who is next someone must be coming to us. However, there is little hope that state attorney Hrvoj Šipek will still resist the pressures and arrest the team as soon as possible, so we may be one step closer to the election and the release from the evil called HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103223	My colleagues, Raukar, I see that you're calling for arrests, too, it's very appropriate from this pay phone here, you're getting attached to the President of the Republic, and we've obviously started mixing some pears and apples. We're not here to call for arrests, if someone's going to commit a crime, if it's going to be in proceedings proven then they're going to arrest him. And I'm asking you to avoid that kind of thing because you're in power in Zagreb too, so maybe soon your colleagues will start calling to go to jail, and that wouldn't be good. Here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103224	The 238th demeaning of Assembly MPs, it is you, Mr. President of the Assembly from your post that you very often warn that there is something free to say in the assembly that they are entitled to, so I would ask you, like everyone else, to concentrate on your comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103225	Yes, you have the right to say what you want, but you must know very well that the legislative authority and representatives of the people elected here do not decide who they are going to arrest or not, so please let us control what we say. So, by name and last name, you mentioned people and talked about arrests, that's not what this is about. Here's another violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103226	The 238th demeaning of parliamentary deputies, from this pay phone, in an incredibly large number of cases, calls for much worse things, affirms the constitution, affirms hatred, so I didn't hear you react to it, so I would ask you nicely to stick to what you're promoting yourself that in free speech you have the right to say your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103227	He has the right to speak his mind, but he has no right to call on state institutions who are in charge of arresting people, it's not your job... If you don't speak, well it's a basic political culture, you should know that as someone it's elected to HS, that this isn't the place to call the state's attorney and the institutions to arrest other people. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, I won't discuss this with you at all. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103302	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, has been organized since 1974 by the first Walk for Life in Washington. Today, he brings together several hundred thousand citizens. Most of them were in 2015 when there were as many as 800,000. Shoulders along the shoulder in this walk walk Catholics, Protestants, Orthodoxs, and even atheists, all those whose life is sacred and it is not a classical religious gathering but a set of citizens, even one kind of economic encounter. The walk for life is a peaceful walk of citizens in support of every born and unborn child, his mother, father, and every family. The goal of the Walk of Life is to draw attention to the respect of every human life from conception to natural causes. The right to life is a fundamental human right and a prerequisite for any other human and civil right. Since 2016, Croatia has also organized Life Walk for the first time in Zagreb and later in other towns of Split, Rijeka, Osijek, this year for the first time in Vinkovci and Varazdin. Unfortunately this year, Walk for Life and showed the true face of the mayor of Zagreb Tomašević who refused to be a sponsor to this event and banned the flaging of the Walk for Life on the city's masts. Mayor Tomašević and his group of extremists privatized the City of Zagreb, abolished pluralism and marginalized all his uninsulated people. Now we finally know what winged Zagreb really means is ours. Zagreb is not yours and your like-minded people, Zagreb belongs to all the citizens of the City of Zagreb and to the left and right and to the believers and atheists. Zagreb is the capital of all Croatia. You've violated all the standards of democratic behavior with this kind of behavior. In fact, this kind of policy will come back to you as a boomerang. As early as two years ago, you called the late mayor Bandic that he took LGBT flags off the city's mast to replace them with the flags of Walk for Life, and you are today completely disabling the setting of one, while the others will certainly allow. It's hypocritical and harmful. And it will come back to you because one day when you lose power in the City of Zagreb and when another mayor comes, don't be surprised that the same ban on LGBT flags on city masts will just continue your policy. A policy of exclusion, a policy of defending only one ideology. It is a year that you are in power in the City of Zagreb and the peak of the rule of Tomislav Tomasevic was the setting of a bench in long colors on Zrinjevac. It is obviously the largest and highest reach of the Green Left Coalition. You are performing a circus around a bench, and the City of Zagreb is falling apart infrastructureally. How many damaged or completely destroyed benches have you replaced in the last year how many new ones have you placed in some new locations, how much have you improved the quality of life of citizens? Almost nothing. The damaged benches all over town can wait, and the painted LBGT bench you immediately gave to restore. That's your message, and you said to yourself that you were a communal option. You are, unfortunately, one ideologically colored and what is even worse, an incompetent political option that has been manifested in the last year of the city of Zagreb’s rule where you are being shot daily by pipes, where you have a plight on the main square of Zagreb, which for months stands at the shame of all those who come here and see what the city looks like to us today. But it's obviously a democracy according to the platform's criteria we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103379	Now let's take a stand. There's a colleague, Zekanovic, here you go. No, not Zekanovic. Yeah, you're going out, I thought.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103380	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. There are a lot of current topics. I'm going to say something about the Constitutional Court and the referendums today. The Constitutional Court must exist that way in most democratic countries, because the Constitutional Court always does what we want, and I will say no. And I'm even going to say one thing that really bothers me most of the last decisions of his, and that was the famous opinion with the protection of life where the Constitutional Court has only put one opinion in an equal position and the protection of life and the famous right to privacy as far as I'm concerned I'm going to say out of my mind unfairly, wrongly, even say evil. And that is something I would like to comment on from this pay phone to the Croatian Parliament, but no one has commented because these are the decisions of the Constitutional Court and even those who are proliferators, those who are prochoicers, those who are all possible they actually did not comment on it. But on my part, from my perspective, it's the most controversial decision of the Constitutional Court lately maybe ever. I'll repeat, when the right to privacy is that we have no idea what is actually putting it in an equal position as well as the right to life. Now a little bit about the referendums. So, the referendum is a public statement about a point, and I think it is, that direct democracy that is extremely valuable. I have pointed out many times that I have personally stepped through the referendums, through activists and politicians through the sea, land, signed declaration, for constitutional protection of marriage, which I am extremely proud of. And then there came a referendum in which I also participated as one of the initiators. It was a referendum on the Istanbul Convention today, a trivial document that fell into a completely different plan. I would like to discuss it a little bit again academically in the right way, and so we have prepared ourselves, says let's go collect signatures for the referendum and then at one point it happens that some group then still undefined jumps into the same term of signing, collecting signatures for the referendum, with another referendum called "The People Decisions". I responsibly argue today that none of this team has been able to repeat the questions for which they were collecting signatures and that the only purpose of this referendum was to fail the referendum against the Istanbul Convention and they succeeded. None of the other referendums succeeded, or the referendum "The People Decisions" was successful because it aimed to bring down the referendum against the Istanbul Convention. I will point out that the main person of the referendum "The People Decisions" was our current counterpart, Zvonimir Troscott. I will also note that at that time MOST, whose member of the Zvonimir Troscott today did not support any other referendum, Istanbul was not allowed to pronounce the name Istanbul at all, and only after two, three weeks when they saw this thing going well if the people decided there they jumped and today we see... The abandoned Troskot when Željka Markic left him, left him hanging. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then we have a new referendum, which is a referendum in which I also participated in the protection of the Croatian Kuna. And let's say let's all of us who are thinking sovereignistly about collecting signatures to protect the Croatian Kuna, so let's gather all parties or options, individuals who will help us, and that's where we address MOST. Comrades of MOST, come on, you help us with this. They're just talking about the referendum today, and here they say no, we're not gonna have any more votes with the inoculation. So only North Korea today agrees with their position. And I responsibly claim that they visited Croatia after us, answered volunteers one by one only that a referendum on the protection of the Croatian Kuna would not succeed, so that tomorrow they would have as many volunteers as possible for their referendum. And they did. We have failed to collect enough signatures for a referendum to protect the Croatian Kuna, and they have succeeded and here are all these volunteers to gather themselves and think they have raised votes. So, what I want the Croatian public to know, it wasn't their desire to abolish some kind of headquarters because they had no idea what they were collecting signatures for, but their wish was to collect political points, or votes. Otherwise, a colleague of Grmoy gave his colleague Sacic instructions to lift the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103381	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Zekanovic. Just a colleague, wait for what now? Please take a seat, colleague Sacic, colleague Zekanovic. I have to give you my word. My colleague Zekanovic can't give you his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103382	... The violation of the Rules of Procedure art, I personally as a Croatian sovereign was not familiar, I don't know where to put it, with colleagues from the Mosto behind me walking around Croatia so that I am this little surprised by Mr. Hrvoje's statement in that sense, our former sovereign and founder of sovereignty, so if he can [[Specially enabled.]] Explain a little bit, here. [[Agreement: A fellow Sacic, but...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103383	But you have now abused the breach of the Rules of Procedure So you get a warning then. [[I did a little bit, yeah.]] Just a little colleague Bartulica, a colleague of Zekanovic's also called in for a new breach of the Rules of Procedure, please. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. Right. Now he'll speak to his esteemed colleague Bartulic on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103415	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This morning I will ask one question of principled nature, so what are Croatian institutions or who are they serving, better said? So in Croatia for the last 30 years what I have seen, we have a big problem because the gap between the so-called ordinary citizens and our institutions are getting bigger and it usually doesn't end well. It is one problem that deserves more attention, and also ours, I will not talk too much about this Constitutional Court decision, but otherwise I will say that as a conservative politician, I certainly advocate that in principle speaking, culture is nurtured, institutions are respected and so on, but I must refer to that often our institutions do not actually meet the purpose for which they exist. So they are not purpose to themselves, it is also true for the CNB, it is also true for the Croatian government, therefore, we must speak openly about having a big problem. As far as the Constitutional Court is concerned, I will once again say that the solutions and judgments made by that body do not instill confidence, this also applies to the Law on abortion, but also to the decision on these referendum issues. However, as for the CNB and the current euro issue, we voted, we were against, but the law was passed on Friday, on the introduction of the euro, I think it is a big failure and citizens should know that introducing the euro is not a reform measure. I don't agree with Governor Vujcic, who was here in the Parliament, and he defended the measure and said it was a reform measure. It's not. It's not. This is sold to the Croatian public as a substitute for reforms the government does not implement. Why am I saying that? Because other countries that have long before us accepted the euro did not benefit much from that. No, they're not. So, unfortunately, we too will not benefit from our citizens. And our economy is simply not ready or able to use possible benefits from membership. This is also seen under the conditions of Croatia's last debt where markets, financial markets estimate that there is a greater risk with us than with Greece, so we stand worse than Greece, and it has been in the euro for 20 years now, and I think it is necessary to say openly and honestly that the euro serves only the strongest countries, such as Germany and the Netherlands, others do not benefit from that, and it was promised at the beginning, when this currency was introduced 20 years ago that the difference between rich and less developed would be reduced, it did not happen. That didn't happen. What does modern sovereignty mean, after all, is this concept that is now current, especially in the ranks of HDZ, what does that even mean? How can the introduction of the euro be in line with modern sovereignty when Croatia will not only lose monetary sovereignty but the growing space will have to decide, today-to-morrow on tax policy, on fiscal policy, and decisions will be made elsewhere on behalf of us. So we'll be kind of, our hands tied and that little space of freedom that still exists we won't have. So it is not surprising that citizens have a great need to plead through referendum initiatives. Some are already mentioned, I generally think they should be relieved, not made more difficult. This includes the election law itself, the question is whether it makes a way, in a fair way we all enter HS. We know that they are not equal conditions for all, therefore it needs persistently and will persist. The country's movement to insist on the election law [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It needs to be changed. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bartulica.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103512	Thank you very much. Let's move on. SDSS MPs' club, a respected colleague of Pupovac's. There he is, coming at the last minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103513	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Seven days ago, one of the MPs said after the almost regular spread of religious intolerance towards the Orthodox Church and its believers, the Serbs were reduced to a bearable measure. Instead of warning or building, the chairman of the spoken representative split up with the exchange of smiles of pleasure. None of the others obviously thought that bringing down historic minorities during the 20th century, Hungary, Austrians, Germans, Italians, Jews, Roma and Serbs tolerable did not make Croatia any more freer or safer country. Bringing it intolerable can be a dangerous national project. Instead of making the nation more homogeneous and more powerful, such a project can result in a lasting state of internal intolerance and weakness toward other nations. A few days ago he was at one of our football stadiums, once again the cheerleading groups of their cheerleading conflicts surpassed by chanting Ustasha greetings for home ready. One or two media outlets informed the public and condemned it. The others kept quiet about it. Some because it's not news anymore. Some because it is no longer news because it has become like a good morning in Croatia. Some think that this should not be spoken of because speaking about it harms Croatia, and shouting, in its chance of saying hello, is obviously no harm. Maybe that's what it's supposed to be for. Bringing Croatia down as such on the right footing contained in that greeting. Across one of Zagreb's cult clubs a day ago, a graphite of chimpraga-back on a tractor. Many of the Parliament, again from the Parliament, can be considered co-authors of this graphite. Those who are silent about it, criticising the authorities for buses that have for years been with children or single young people who will distract their family and children elsewhere, leaving many areas of Croatia, and clearly do not see the connection between those like Anja who have gone to tractors and those of many of our unnamed neighbors and relatives who go to buses in search of a better place to live. They started their life there rarely together. Anya's peers with people on the bus, people on the bus with Anya's peers. So are Croatian emigrant buses and Serbian refugee tractors calm down abroad, and here, we continue to make a foreigner of property. In the end, all this stuff that I'm talking about is obviously not a consequence of consciousness, but of obsessing. While others around us are increasingly becoming aware of the dangers that the global conflict in Ukraine has with all its military, financial, economic and political consequences produce for Europe, and that means for us, we are adding our small local property here. That's when the ox, whatever his name is, I don't name anyone here, thinks he's allowed to be God, God Jupiter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103514	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Pavlichek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103515	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238, Pupovac, a colleague, told the lie and accused some parliamentary representatives of being guilty of speaking hate and graphics that appeared to the Deputy Prime Minister, who, of course, should be convicted, but if someone is guilty and responsible for numerous emigrants, it is those who are in power, and you have been Mr. Pupovac in power for years and you are responsible for people leaving Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103516	Comrade Pavlichko, you are being warned. This was not an injury to the Rules of Procedure, and you have now come here, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns of your 5 minutes in which you can say whatever you want, so you shouldn't have done this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103552	Thank you very much, colleague Gordana Jandrokovic. Let's go back to these basics of the economy even though I didn't want to talk about it, but my colleague just kind of encouraged me. So the devil is in the details as we say, so we have, nominally, we're going to have an 11% increase in GDP, so we'll probably have 480 billion kuna, if we're looking at the real meaning before 2.g. It was 420 billion kuna, and our public debt is 360 billion kuna. Mr. Maric says it's 77%, so to please the so-called. Master's criteria, but actually he would be 85%, but that's another story, and why am I talking about it? I'm talking about the price of electricity. Look, so the government let go of the energy aid package to pensioners and citizens, so through vouchers, but only a month after that, and that was the 1st April source of Cropex, CNB and HEP, the government is raising electricity prices for entrepreneurs, now there are 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 10 tariff models for entrepreneurs, so they're growing below 169% to 241%, so depending on the tariff model and what they're getting, actually because of delays and inflation, so you've actually been canceled all government measures... Keyly, I'm speaking macroeconomicly now, and you have one more piece of information that during April, the wholesale price on CROPEX fell. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now we're going back to something interesting, which is the official data of the annual energy review. So, Croatia to you, the Croatian consumption structure according to electricity producers is 32% of the hydropower plant, Krško 21%, photovoltaic 0.5, wind power plants 9.5. What am I saying? That 60% of the energy we can still get at the same prices and that the price of energy, so HEP should have weighted much, much different. So, he should have left the same price for 60% in the weighting, and there's a colleague, Branko Grcic, who knows what a border cost is because just the border cost in the hydro power plants has been amortised long ago. You know why? Because the last hydropower plant was built in 1990. So you're out of expenses, because it's all amortized. So you're actually 32.2%, you should get your glasses to buy electricity from the hydropower plant. So there is absolutely no economic justification to raise electricity prices in these times of crisis, and there is no Boris. Why do I say that? Because it will reflect exactly on the standard of citizens, meaning from that micro example that people are most acceptable to you are bars and cafes, which daily routine means that they will have to raise the price because they have three times the price of electricity. And then instead of having a government and a HEP, let's say a smart policy and say, let's in a transitional period freeze a certain part of the price for three to four years and give citizens the opportunity and entrepreneurs to put an alternative source of energy where we're going to free them from, for example, VAT, we're talking about photovoltaic, I'm talking about heat cranes. And the one who doesn't work after three years, who doesn't, because it takes us three years, and then he can start paying a higher price. And now I'm going back to the damn HEP under quotes, I don't think it's cursed, but I damn well say HEP so colloquial. Where's the key problem? That they don't run the system, but that's why HEP has money for conferences, for commercials, for expenses. And in the end, who pays for it? Probably citizens of the Republic of Croatia plus entrepreneurs. And you basically just pump inflation in Croatia. And of course we're all going to brag right now, that public debt ratio if we look at it with GDP is going to be 77%. Well, of course there will be 77% when inflation is involved. No one's talking about that. So, HEP if you want to be independent as a country you deal with energy and you deal with agriculture, i.e. the production of food. So the government doesn't deal with the team. So the only goal of all these measures, let's meet the criteria, let's introduce the euro and let's get into Schengen. My people, but that's not the goal of the state. It's a means to achieve one of our goals. Thank you, Gordan.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103765	We're going to the fourth debate, it's going to be a respected colleague byice on behalf of the Fox Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u103766	... High school classes. [[Specially enabled.]] When I talk about it, then I'm talking about the fact that it's usually a difficult decision for both students and parents to determine where you're going to go, where you're going to go to school and this year in 2022, that's the decision that Minister Fuchs made even more difficult. Namely, he made a proposal for a decision on enrolments where he deleted 2,000 students in the enrolment and which is much worse, 144 classrooms. I have to say it's a total of 144 minus but in the city of Zagreb it's 44 plus, so the difference from the large centers is 212. When we talk about it, we are also talking about the fact that the decision was made against the proposals of the founders. So the founders make their proposals, they concentrate with their schools, and the foundation of that actually gives what is the basis for the minister's decision. Minister Fuchs' decision didn't explain it. Therefore, such an important decision cannot be made in a way that takes a sponge and on a school map of Croatia, erases part of high school education, and this has now happened. In e-consultation, it showed that the decision had so far almost the greatest interest of all decisions. They came from all over the Republic of Croatia and I have to say that all the comments, almost to one were such that such a practice could not be accepted. Discontinuation of schools goes I would say, not only in a way to eliminate some schools, but practically departments everywhere in Croatia. I will point out that this applies, for example, to high school programs. At this moment, they are being abolished in Grubišni Polje, Daruvar, Ivanić Grad, Slatini and many other places. Of course, vocational schools are being abolished, so it is logical to cancel programs for chefs or waiters in Opatija and Dubrovnik. Because of course what we need except that tourism obviously has a need for labour and is crying out for people who will work in this tourism. Also what I must admit is particularly sensitive is being abolished by programmes for national minorities. So that's something you wouldn't expect, but it's happening, and I'd even less expect programs to be lifted for children with special needs, for example, in Daruvar. It is something that cannot be accepted, it is a practical problem which cannot be brought by a minister who calls for it to be part of a national reform agreed with the EU and related to the use of the programme's funds of course for recovery. However, it should pass through the Parliament, it should be given an explanation and people, them 982 who have made their remarks are actually completely seem justified to me. My colleague Ivana Posavec Krivec and I have made a proposal to amend and supplement the laws under which such things can be allowed only with agreement with the founder. I hope it will be if not sooner in the autumn at this session of the Croatian Parliament. However, we also need to know that behind these suspensions of the High School in Grubisno Polje, Chazmi, if we only talk about my county, Daruvar, the Tourist and Food School of Bjelovar with of course part of the program that concerns them or many others is hiding one other thing. While the programmes are being stepped up in the city of Zagreb, they are falling significantly elsewhere. And you're a parent and at the moment when you need to decide where your child will go, and now you've already decided then you have to change a lot of things. Namely, if you are to be cut off from high school programs in one part of Croatia, and you want your child to go to high school, you have decided that the only thing you can do is try to secure accommodation, a student home and until now that program has been with you. And I think that such things are unacceptable without reason, without a decision of the Croatian Parliament, without the government's decision. I hope that our initiative when we talk of course about the law and pass, because that the founders would be referred to e-consultation and they were partners to the government in education and owners of a practical school which they were at that point of course and equipped it unacceptablely. The changes to this law would change that, I hope that's what happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109961	We will now move to the agenda, as we have announced we have a joint discussion on 3 points, these are: - Proposal for amendments and additions to the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and projections for 2023 and 2024, together with the proposal for amendments and additions to the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and projections for 2023 and 2024. And '24. for Croatian Water, Croatian Roads, Centre for Restructuring and Sales, Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency, Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Croatian Highways, HZ Travel and HZ Infrastructure - Final proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022, second reading, P.Z. No. 202 and - Proposal for a Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the year 2021 is proposed by the Government on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution, Article 39. Budget law and Article 211 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and pursuant to Article 109. Budget law. The adoption of the State budget shall be subject to the provisions of Articles 211 and 212. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The final draft of the law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on the Economy and the Defence Committee. I remind you of the article. 38. The budget law whereby all amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed State budget and projections must not exceed the amount of the permitted deficit of the State budget and projection. During the debate on the proposal of the State Budget and projections, amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amounts set out in the State Budget and projections may be adopted provided that a reduction of other expenditures and expenditures in a specific part of the budget is proposed at the same time. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. With this in mind, I warn that only those amendments drawn up under the Budget Law will be referred to the parliamentary procedure. Art. 212. The Rules of Procedure set out that it cannot be voted on the amendments submitted and the budget as a whole before they expire 3 days from the date of the debate. Before I give my word to the respected Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric, we have several requests for a break. First in line is a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109962	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This rebalancing is the result of two facts. The first, indisputable which we all witness from day to day is growing inflation. However, the other thing is that some things, when the budget was passed, are not well planned. When the budget was made very clearly, we said, you did not foresee health care funds to a sufficient extent. The result, the debts are growing, the obligations are not settled and we need to have a rebalance and we still don't predict enough funding, so we can say with certainty now that in the 9th or 10th month we will have other rebalances, and maybe even by the end of the year and 3rd. However, there is another serious problem in this rebalancing, which is the problem of rebuilding, and I would therefore ask the minister to answer one question immediately in his opening statement. Why are the reconstruction funds cut down? We know that inflation has been particularly affected by the rise in the price of construction material, which means that any house that is being renovated will be more expensive than it would have been a year or two ago. To that inflation, instead of raising funds for reconstruction to speed up, we're reducing them. That's why I'm asking you honourable ministers and Vice-President of the Government to answer this question that may be a little bit out of the portfolio of finances, but not from your government vice-presidents and to tell us why the funds are being reduced to the refurbishment fund and to the amount that goes beyond 100 million kuna. And finally, Your Honor, Mr. President, one request to you. Given the vastness of matter and that we haven't returned to those pre-pandemic settings completely, that the time for clubs extends to 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109963	It's already done. And it's self-initiative. [[I'm sorry.]] Nothing. The second one's a colleague of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109964	Thank you very much. Please pause for 10 minutes on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club. Today we have an extremely important topic to discuss, it's a rebalance, but I think the topic of the debate when it comes to rebalancing is going to open up about something else. The topic of discussion will open up the state of our health. There are two winners, if they can call it that, this budget, and those two winners are two ministers whose last name begins on B and who run a dead race which of them will be the worst minister now in this government. It's about Minister Banozic and it's about Minister Beros. If we need to decide who is less capable of doing his job, it is difficult for us to decide who is involved. This budget, or rebalancing, regardless of what is on the subject of the crown and in the topic of war in Ukraine is actually about the problem we have in health care. And the problem we have in health care is not Minister Maric's fault, he's guilty as Deputy Prime Minister, but not as Finance Minister. He's doing technical work here, but the culprits are somewhere else. Somehow it seems to me that it would be polite and elementary that these two ministers were there and that we actually have opportunities and some questions to ask them, but whenever the topic of rebalancing is, we're talking about numbers, and we're not talking about the essence, why we're going into rebalancing and what the topics are. I can't and can't touch the renovation. Who in the public space remembers more that he became a minister named Darko Horvat? It's hard to remember him anymore, and he's guilty of why there's no renewal. And this unfortunate Minister Paladin is fortunately the lights of the public were somewhere else, and he is beneath all of this and through this budget is actually shown to be not going to be, and the last hole on the playing, the valid Minister Paladin's restoration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109965	The apartment is approved. Comrade Troscott, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109966	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and respected colleagues and colleagues. The Mosta Club has calculated for the purposes of this debate today how much damage inflation will actually be in the Republic of Croatia. And we don't see it in the discourses, we don't see it in the debates, we don't see concrete figures of that damage, which, if there's inflation that will present our minister today, in Croatia are about 15 billion or 20 even. And if it goes beyond the two-digit inflation figure, we're going to have an inflation cost of 25 billion kuna, which is somewhere around 5 Peljeka bridges, and nobody's discussing how we're going to do that damage today. That we have a concrete strategy in which we will compensate and how this damage to inflation that awaits us as a whole society will be financed in the future because it always hurts inflation as a whole. That's who she is. And the second thing, the reason we're here today, the main reason is the health rebalancing. So we in this health care have a problem, so the minister is accused of investigating two affairs or more of them. Now this enters the corruption sphere that has been recalculated in Croatia and you have at today's rate the cost of corruption in Croatia is 70 billion kuna. And if we add up these two components today, so the damage to inflation on the one hand we have the cost of corruption that's 90 billion to you, that's half of today's budget that we haven't even started the debate, half the budget. And instead of really dealing with inflation and dealing with corruption, where the minister who apparently affected his paparazzi and his when he had political.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109967	Thank you. The apartment is approved. Comrade Bice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109968	Mr. President of the Assembly, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Focus and Independent MPs requested a break of 10 minutes. Before us is the change and addition of the Republic of Croatia's 2022 budget, I will say that it is also caused by the economic situation, so by the increase in inflation and by, of course, reducing the forecast for GDP growth in Croatia by 2022. It's just that things have turned one way instead of 7% of the growth in the economy, we're going to have two and something, and instead of 2% of inflation, we're going to have almost 7.5. However, when we look at what the money is going to be spent on, what it is to increase it is health-returning the same figures as it was in 2021, the purchase of an anti-aircraft system for our Croatian army after the drone crash and a few other things. I'll say there are a lot of things missing here that are not in any way foreseen in the state budget. In fact, the government of the Republic of Croatia has made measures to support the citizens before the Ukrainian crisis and the Ukrainian war. This state budget does not provide for any additional measures, and that should be the case. With such an inflation increase of 5% and something in January, 9% in April would expect it to be a taste of this budget, that means helping the standard of living of citizenship, pensioners, those who work to help the economy and other parts of the EU are already working on new measures and are already implementing them, and we are standing at zero. And to this end, if we expect it to not cause any earthquakes on a series of special and special parts of the economy like agriculture, and in this case I'm talking about construction that has fixed contracts, that's what's missing, which is missing. and what we expect it to be in the budget, which it isn't. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109969	The apartment is approved. Here you go, fellow Sacic. Comrade Byse, just turn off, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109970	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, we declare and ask for a 10-minute break in order to give all of you colleagues and colleagues a special support. By reading the draft budget rebalancing, we are truly unsettled and found that again this proposal of this important document does not make any significant efforts to improve the work of the DORH, the USKOK for the bodies most responsible for the pursuit of crime in Croatia, nor does it provide them with room for pay raises, nor does the material and technical conditions of work have a declarative all, and in reality their hands are tied and given to the fact that financial and abusers of that obligation by the authorities that they must ensure their resources for unlimited, independent work by the constitution that is guaranteed to them, our Prime Minister, unfortunately even the president of the state are unpunishedly allowed to call and call, call the phone to call the chief state attorney to do so, you must not do this. We need to be sharper and financially secure them to be independent, and then criminally prevent everyone regardless of what authority he maintained if he threatens the state's attorney to end up in prison, as courts are neatly protected in criminal acts, so in recent years we no longer have any more trips from politicians that the court is not worth it, that he's lying, that he's corrupt, etc. in a specific case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109971	The apartment is approved. And here you go, fellow Wolfie.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109972	I thank the chairman. So on behalf of the Club For Fair Croatia I also ask for a break of at least 10 minutes. Today, we need to explain through this agenda point the draft budget rebalance. What is important is to say that our citizens would understand, so the state plans to spend more than 9.2 billion kuna. I'll just point out that the state has collected more revenue from value added tax in the last period of as much as $1.8 billion, when we talk about revenue from contributions there, more than $1.9 billion, I mean that our country seems to have profited in this crisis, and the question is, in fact, how many more of these tax burdens, cuts, levies, gatherings of our citizens and our entrepreneurs can still endure. We expected the state to correct its consumption, however, this is not happening, and I will take advantage of the moment so I will mention that here is the minister, and this minister is part of the ruling ones who presented to us several years ago the method that was supposed to lead to a reduction of 1.5 billion kuna as the Standard Cost method, a method according to Standard Cost model which is actually an internationally recognised methodology that was developed in the Netherlands, which was only meant to lead to a reduction of therefore 1.5 billion kuna and this cost of business to our entrepreneurs, so we should administratively relieve them or administratively relieve our entire economy. That's not what happened. Why do these methods still not apply? Are we aware of the moment in which we live and when we will start using the methods we apply? Developed Member States and lead to savings to citizens. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109973	Thank you, colleague Vukovac. The break has been granted. Here's another request, colleague Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109974	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to show again how the budget rebalance is really needed. In fact, the previous year in 2021 was the year, Covid was the year in which we were very fast and with a very high growth of 10.2% came out of the crisis. However, here is the beginning of this 2022 that led to new geopolitical problems and tensions, which in fact led to certain problems and in supplying energy and inflation growth, etc. All this has actually resulted in this government having to worry further about all the effects that this crisis is causing, and this means taking care of exactly the sustainability of the system, both health and pension, and also helping citizens with those inflationary movements related to energy. Therefore, this budget and this rebalancing are precisely contributing to the fact that citizens and citizens can withstand all these attacks that are actually exogenous and that they cannot really resuscitate themselves. Therefore, this rebalancing proves precisely that it is necessary and that in this way it can be very well managed by the financial situation in the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109975	The apartment is approved. My colleague Posavec the Sinner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109976	Thank you, Your Honor. Like other colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, please pause for 10 minutes. We would like to point out on this occasion that this budget does not come from, this budget rebalance does not stem from the situation in which we are brought into the global situation in Europe in the world this year, but we are already in rebalancing because of the poor planning of this government and the fact that the essential reforms that are necessary for this country are missing. And Minister Maric himself has often said that he has not seen the health reform that Minister Beros has been announcing all along, and it is obvious that there is no unity in the ruling majority about what he is and whether health reform is needed. And if health reform is needed, every year they show us rebalancing and show us budgets when we have to patch holes to actually come to the collection of health claims on stables, as they like to say 120 days for pharmacies, or 180 days for hospitals. So from year to year repeats the same scenario on our rebalancing, we always take money for patching holes in health care, that health care, the system must come to a level of self-sustainability, it must in no way lose quality and availability for our citizens, which unfortunately in recent days and months we are increasingly witnessing in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, we believe as Social Democrats that the private system cannot and must not be an alternative to a good public health system in the Republic of Croatia and that this government, among the first reforms it must implement, is to implement a reform of a sustainable public health system that will benefit all citizens, and not that we will patch from year to year.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109977	Thank you. Now we're gonna take a break by 11 o'clock and 15 minutes. After that, we will be contacted by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. It's 11 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:15 A.M.]] As I announced now, the State Budget Rebalancing Proposal will be presented to us by Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109979	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's at the beginning my apology at the vote, here's everything I've done but I haven't been able to fully return it, but I think it'll hold up, hopefully I'll take the lead to answer all your replicas, or, if necessary, during the debate and all the other questions. And in these explanations of the break, a lot of questions have been raised, I believe, and most of the replicas will refer to health care, inflation. It's also mentioned in the renovations. At first, I will say, therefore, not to reduce the funds for reconstruction, they increase by nearly 300 million kuna when all these sources are looked at and I think that as far as the renovation itself is concerned, I would simply respond to the Law on the implementation of the state budget, we included several provisions and in some way adjusted to make the withdrawal of funds both the Solidarity Fund and the Rehabilitation Fund and those other sources of the state budget as simple, more passing, more efficient as possible. Therefore, it is a very simple sentence regarding the reconstruction of no reduction in funds, although the funds have been increased, but the procedures for the use of certain funds have also been facilitated. A few weeks ago, the government adopted a convergence programme at its session, which, among other things, updated the macro-economic projection for this year. And what we did was done by a number of other actors, and so did the European Commission a few days ago. Fitch Ratings Agency also a few days ago, leading analysts etc. This year's growth projection has been adjusted to a slightly lower level as regards the government from 4.4% to 3%. The main and basic reason for this or two main reasons are on one side a high and higher base last year, because the growth last year was actually above all expectations. 10.2% of GDP growth in Croatia is the second highest growth in the EU. On the other hand, given the still very high level of uncertainty mostly related to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, but also everything related to energy prices, food prices generally announce the rise of interest rates and some greater achievements and, of course, we always retain in our macroeconomic projections a certain level that actually gives us a maneuvering space so that we can react as needed but also do everything possible to reduce these negative repercussions, and positive effects as much as possible. A similar theme and similar arguments can also be used in our inflation rate correction for this year, the average inflation rate, that consumer price index we adjusted to a higher level of 7.8%. As many analysts as I have followed in both Croatia and abroad, this is also the highest assessment of the Republic of Croatia. Realisations of the first four months, on Monday, the State Statistics Institute published data on April and inflation of 9.4% actually confirm that our projection is on real ground. However, as with GDP, there is also a whole series of negative risk factors. In translation, unfortunately, the rate is also in a slightly higher amount. However, of course everything we can and within the scope of the possibility I will speak on behalf of fiscal policy, but I am sure that the monetary policy that is independent, which corresponds to the Croatian Parliament, also thinks about what and how it can be done to ensure, among other things, that these inflational effects, the effects are mitigated because ultimately and the fundamental objective of the Croatian National Bank is to maintain price stability. So not only fiscal policy, but also monetary policy. Based on this macro-economic framework, we have set out to correct, but not only the macro-economic framework, but also the achievement of budget revenues in the first four months, and half of the fifth month is behind us. And based on that, a new framework for the revenue side of the budget was created. Total revenues increased compared to the original plan with 6.6 billion kuna. One note, and with the basis of yesterday's discussion on the parent board which was of great quality, I would like to thank the president, the deputy and all the representatives of both the Assembly and those outsiders who took part in the debate as well as a suitable home budget committee, and according to reports and information from my colleagues and all the other committees have indeed passed in one constructive tone. So what I'm saying is that this rebalancing, like every time we bring you this set and a set of materials, is always in line with the Budget Law that prescribes how and how the tables should look, as compared to what they compare. We have also made one addition to the budget itself, and also one presentation that is publicly available, which you have, I see that many of you have in benches to compare numbers more easily, because we distinguish three let's say so columns or columns. On the one hand, it's the original budget for this year. In the meantime, it is in accordance with the legal powers of certain redistributions that we have made corrected on the current plan, and now we have a new plan, so here is the basis and remarks that we have had in the previous debate on budgets and budget rebalances, and we have improved this way of reporting, so that it is also simpler for you to have the debate, for your presentation on behalf of clubs individually, but also above all, of course for our citizens. 6.6 billion kuna increases compared to the original plan of the revenue side of the budget, of course preceding tax revenues. Now, that's where we come to the most important part, and that's the expense side that we're most interested in with all due respect for the revenue, of course. The spending side, I heard you say nine.2 billion kuna a little while ago when you're only looking at the expenditures from the so-called so-called. General sources. What affects the result of the budget is what we call it according to the accounting final plans 1, 2 and 8. So what we actually collect as general tax revenues and distribute, or as such, have an effect on the overall result. When we look at all the sources, when we add both European funds and our own and dedicated revenues, then it's an increase of 10.9 billion kuna to the total total state budget. You've been working through the ministries, just following up on what I just said about the original plan, the current plan, the new plan. However, in this presentation material, we summed up the most important items, to extract from it all what is really important and to present it to the high home, but also to present it to the Croatian public. So, the biggest increase in, refers to health care. Only in terms of obligations to suppliers, wholesale drugs and everything related to drugs, sanitary material and other 3.5 billion kunas broken between hospitals or pharmacies, so through the ministry or HZZO. You know that HZZO has been out of the Treasury since 2013 and 2014 but has been in a consolidated general state. So I'd say less important. 3.5 billion all together. It is not only that health care is further allocated to funds as well as to education for certain court rulings. There are additional allocations for a clinical hospital center in Rijeka, almost 50 million to get this project, which as much as I can hear in the Primorje-Gorski County and in Rijeka very well and recognized and known so that, in this way and with these means, it will in fact all come together and end up. Also, the second largest item of the increase is pensions and pension incomes, I always clearly want to send messages unequivocally as far as our pensioners are concerned. We spent an indexation of pensions of 2.2% on Friday on the anniversary between the other and the existence of HZMO, the so-called "HZMO". a coloquial energy supplement for pensioners as one of the measures in that anti-inflation package or in terms of mitigation of inflation effects. I believe that many of our parents, grandparents have already confirmed, I've checked, it's sat down. This measure, both in terms of pensions and pension incomes for the second half of the year, is currently difficult to project and say decidated, but very certain that the indexation of pensions will be higher than this first one. And according to that, a clear, unequivocal message to the pensioners as much as possible will provide the funds. Therefore, pensions and pension incomes are never, nor will they be under question as such. In addition, of course, a whole series of things in the budget itself, I will point out that everything related to the Ukrainian crisis also in the rebalancing process whether we are talking about renovating and obtaining additional goods for our goods, not only because of their filling, but also because of the disturbance that is happening in Ukraine as one of the major and agricultural and food factors at global levels, given these disorders are already being seen, and here are the additional disturbances at global levels, and, among other things, we have done certain things, but also in view of the fact that the already significant number and Ukrainian citizens have come to the Republic and that we have taken care of them and that we will take care of them. You know, all the measures the government has said among other things, including the measure that we will subsidise private accommodation and the adoption of Ukrainian refugees. Also, the fourth, major item in terms of rebalancing is our agreement with the unions of state and public services, this time all, all union representatives, or those who are representative, signed a new basic collective or collective contract where 4% of the basics have been recognised, increasing systematic checks, transportation and a whole series of other measures which, with due respect, but financially are slightly smaller volumes but are certainly important to improve the material status of our employees. There are, of course, resources allocated to agriculture, defense and guarantee reserve. I think here's how many times I tried in my 7th year as Minister of Finance and a whole series of budgets and rebalancings I didn't think of a single time that we worked out a guaranteed story, maybe I was wrong, this time we had to take into account the 32m-euro protested guarantee the other day, etc., etc. All those items of interest, of course, feel free to ask, I'll try to answer something. Anyway, let's go back to the total picture. 6.6 billion in state budget revenue. 10.9 an increase in the expenditure of the state budget and only when we look at the state budget is that, as a result, there is an increase in the total deficit for some 4.3 billion kunas. However, extra budget funds, local self-government, is local self-government, regardless of what is not the subject of our debate today and we do not discuss and vote as such, we can of course touch, but they also record significantly better revenues. The investment cycle and some dynamics of achieving the results so far both last quarter and first quarter of this year show that the result will be better and the deficit will be lower, and we also need to make some adjustments for that ESA 2010 system, which is comparable to all EU Member States. Now when all this is summed up, consolidated and adapted to our total deficit of the general government by the ESI, that's that main data growing from 12 billion to 13.4 billion kuna. So from 2.5% of gross domestic product to 2 commas or 2 whole 8%. We believe in government as we have since 2016, each year one of our united points is budget implementation 2021, so I'm going to spend one brief sentence on it. Every year and even in that very pandemic 2020, we achieved a budget better than we expected. Last year, compared to the last rebalancing of the 4.1% of GDP deficit, the deficit was 2.9%. So, what I ordered yesterday and on the parent board, I'm going to say now. Of course, we will do everything possible to make the budget better, you know, with extra income, and all these years ourselves, we have wisely focused on tax discharge and on reducing the share of public debt and, in general, on public debt, and we have kept the expenditure despite all the possible challenges that we have faced, we have actually kept within the scope of what we originally predicted. I always end up with that picture or graph about a public debt that speaks much more than all of my word muffled but it actually shows that in all these years we have a constant path towards reducing the share of public debt in GDP, the only exception is in 2020 where we had a one-time increase effect due to the pandemic year. A short time ago, a respected representative of the Troscott, among other things, told about these calculations regarding the cost of inflation. It's really hard to quantify all of this together, and we're doing it that way, or we're going to do the calculations, but just as far as COVID is concerned, to this day, 42 billion kuna, 42 billion kuna, the direct cost of the state budget, just the state budget. They know entrepreneurs and businessmen, they know how much all of them cost. I'm just talking about 42 billion kunas that COVID cost us the beginning of the outbreak of the pandemic itself of the state budget. And in line with these challenges, and many others, fiscal policy when you look at, say, reports... which, a few days ago, has kept us the historic highest credit rating, so triple B, one step even more than that level of distinction between below investment and investment, with positive prospects where it is very clear, if you do not fail, and I deeply believe that we will not, however, think that we will be better in fiscal policy than these figures and, of course, if the process of introducing the euro continues as planned and there is no significant delay and we also believe that it will not continue to do so, that is, to continue in accordance with our plans, the credit rating will be further improved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's what I'm telling you, among other things, that when we talk and some retrospective of all these years and many of our discussions that have always been extremely constructive and I've always enjoyed discussing and talking about them, but you actually see what kind of confirmation we have among other things on the international agenda, because these are still institutions that don't look at only Croatia, they look horizontally at the whole world, all countries and they know very well what is and how and how this is happening, and here is this new crisis which is clear that it is also global, is not Croatian inflation in any specific way. The latest data also, we're back somewhere in the middle again, when you've been looking at the past 12 months. something slightly above average, however, we must not just say that finding and the fact that nothing can be done, so we went with a package of measures that is also recognised in this rebalancing because many measures, most measures, in fact, have actually entered almost everything on April 1st this year and all of this has been implemented together and implemented through the budget rebalancing itself. A very important point with this rebalancing itself is and the law on the implementation of the state budget, it's usually, we don't spend too many words but here's the time that's left I'm going to spend on it, on the implementation of the budget, I think I actually said about last year, that we have a much better result than we expected, but who's interested, of course, and who has a greater interest, feel free to ask. The law on the implementation of the state budget that always goes traditionally with the budget itself or rebalancing, we originally wanted to change it once more this year before the rebalancing itself for one simple reason, has been implemented by the new budget law that you voted for, which has brought some new improvements and improvements to the system itself. Now, and because we have a new law and some new moments of the whole series of provisions, the law itself has been corrected, so it's not really any changes or additions, but a new law on the implementation of the state budget for this year, so, among other things, it's been further regulated to take on multi-annual commitments on the burden of the budget, it's exactly the respected agent Grbin, one of the things I said and the renewal proposal, and we've made it as much easier and simplified, or improved the efficiency and efficiency, the passing of the use of funds, as I repeat once again, the Fund for Reconstruction, and the Solidarity Fund and other sources. Also, additional arrangements are being made for advances, the foundation and our experiences so far, relations with a number of budget users in the Ministry of Finance, we have adapted certain provisions. The possibility of calling a public call, a very important item, the state guarantees may not be able to reach all of them now, but I will try through other replicas, yesterday she was on the parent committee discussing the issue, on the one hand, the HAMAG and HBOR get the powers to issue guarantees for the name and account of the Republic of Croatia which are well related to the use of the resources of the National Resistance and Recovery Programme. After an advance of 800m euros and some million euros, we will receive or receive in 6mm. among the first countries because we met 34 measures, an additional 700 million. We continue with this dynamic and can freely say that we expect another 700m euros in December at the end of the year. HBOR and HAMAG will be important levers for the use of these funds, however, as far as guarantees are concerned, an additional billion euros has been provided, in fact, all of a billion and 100 million euros to provide energy supplies for the next heating season. We work very hard on this and this model when we make up everything we will present, but in principle, our energy players above all, HEP in this way enables a healthy company to make it possible, with a state guarantee of liquid assets from credit institutions, to supply gas because in this season between the two heatings, this is done among other things to ensure adequate supply. The prices, unfortunately, are much higher, but we're also monitoring some kind of movement of these so-called. forward and future contracts apply in the last quarter and in the first quarter of next year. If certain losses are achieved, and we think they will, on the expenditure side of the budget there is an item, an amount of 75 million, whether or not it will be enough, in this moment it is less important, it is important that the item is there and will cover any losses. Opening an account, running a state budget, here's another 7 seconds, I can only thank you for your attention and, of course, I look forward to all of your replicas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109980	Here it is, we have 34 replicas, so you can explain the rebalancing for at least 34 minutes. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109981	Thank you, Mr. President. I have no doubt that, regardless of the vote, my colleague Maric will be able to do so because this is a very important debate and it is very important that you are here and that you are talking about these issues, but I am reluctant to do this, but I must correct you. According to this morning's published EUROSTAT monthly inflation in April in Croatia is the fourth highest in Europe. That's not an average. But let me because you are also the Deputy Prime Minister and this is also a political, not just a financial act to ask you to answer three very specific questions. Support for entrepreneurs due to the inflation and Ukrainian crisis, other countries have begun to give them. My question is when will Croatia come? New anti-inflation measures? Three months ago we went out with a package, he's already agreed we'd gone out of date because the prices went up. Other countries started with a new package. When are we going? And lastly, you expected when we'd finally do something concrete that this By galloping the growth of debt in health care, it stops. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109982	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109983	Thank you very much. So, as regards support for entrepreneurs unlike covid support, where I would say most of it was directed towards entrepreneurs to preserve jobs in these measures as regards mitigation of effects, I use it on purpose because we are all aware that it is impossible to neutralize inflationary expectations, i.e. inflator pressures, that we can only mitigate. There is a greater emphasis being placed and is on the socially most vulnerable groups of people because energy and food in their baskets are not rarely very often actually the only items we call them so unlike some others. However, what we will continue to do and how we will act depends, of course, on the further development of the situation. We're not going from month to month. These measures have come into force on 1.4. We follow, of course, what other countries are doing, and we follow that in some other countries some of these measures have also been closely linked to their election cycles. However, I will say again, as we have so far reacted, so we will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109984	Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109985	Your Honor...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109986	Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109987	Your Honor, Mr. President, I have a note regarding Article 238. The Honorable Vice President and the Minister did not answer certain things, but only one thing about support. It is the European Commission, not only the President of the Commission, but also Commissioner Gentilloni, who pointed out that they now have to send support to entrepreneurs, not only to preserve jobs, but also to preserve their entrepreneurial activities. And imagine what kind of situation our entrepreneurs will find themselves in, if other countries are to provide such support, and we are not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109988	Thank you. Comrade coat of arms, here's a warning. You said it yourself, but I'm calling on others not to do it now because we have 34 replicas and a lot of space to discuss, so don't even use this thing that isn't necessary yet. Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109989	Dear Minister, here are the figures regarding public finances that are not very good for us and for the external factors, but the fact is that we have slow GDP growth in projections. The fact is we're going to have a deficit greater by 1.4 billion and the fact is that we have a historically high rate of inflation for April of over 9.4%. On the other hand, we have internal factors, which is our health system, which is unfortunately a terminally severe patient. Do you still feel that it is wise to enter the euro zone in this situation, or that it will improve for euro area citizens, or that the next budget, or budget rebalance, will be very similar to this, only instead of the kuna, will write the euro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109990	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109991	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we discussed the Law on the Euro last week, so most of these, this second part of your replica, and I answered the questions about the benefits and potential shortcomings, i.e. defects. I'll briefly refer to that subject with the part you said when you said they weren't great. So I think that these figures actually speak best among other things and the European Commission's assessment, so with the fact that we were the second most, means the country with the second highest GDP growth rate last year we are among those countries that had the most, the strongest reduction in the share of public debt in GDP. And when you look at the budget for last year and you look at the budget for this year, I think it really puts us back at the top among the Member States. I'm sorry that Mr. and colleague Grbin came out, so I'm going to connect another comparison with European countries. All the measures we put into that first anti-inflation package, the mitigation is an assessment of their effect over one percentage point of GDP. The European Union average is 0.6 Even the European Commission has said they are very generous. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109992	Comrade Sablar-Dračevac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109993	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister before you means somewhere in the fall of 2020, I've asked you a parliamentary question. It took you almost a year to write me an answer. You wrote the answer on page five, but you didn't answer my question. So, I'm curious about the excise tax laws that you know very well that lex specialis should be transferred to health care. If that billion and a half, two, I think I'm answering now because I didn't get the answer. If I got an answer, I could tell you precisely whether it was directed immediately into health care, if you were aware of how much less complications we would have and how much less debts we would have, I mean, yes, debts are really representative but it would be drastically less if people could plan the funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109994	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109995	Thank you very much. Yeah, obviously it took us a long time to answer, it's not a simple subject and it's not a simple question. Now you're trying to fight me again with my colleague Beroshe, but it's not my relationship with my colleague. All Ministers of Finance and Minister of Health I think they have in the past, and I would say in the future the same relationship. That provision that stands is something that we truly deeply believe should never have existed inside, that only health care is bound by the tax law provision. In any other tax act, it does not relate to the tax regulation of any kind. Anyway, I'll remind you so last year we had a $9.1 billion transfer from the state budget to health care, much more than this number you're talking about. Was that all enough? It's not. That's why I'm always saying the solution to the health issue, it's the same respected representative of the coat of arms I haven't been able to answer, the Ministry of Finance's position has always been and will be that the solution is primarily on the cost side. The future side will contribute, but the cost side is critical.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109996	Comrade Lerotić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109997	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, as you said and saw, incomes are certainly growing, but expenditures are even more and again bearing bad news with a new deficit. However, I would ask a concrete income issue. In Pula, we have an area called Muzil, which makes up a fifth of the total area of the city of Pula. There are all spatial plans to potentially put this into a concession that, and a space that can question certainly over a billion kuna investments. So I'm curious why, when the state obviously can't solve the problem of expenditure doesn't do everything to valorize the valuable assets it has that will generate and the revenues from concessions and incomes from VAT and new employment and therefore resulting in income from the state budget because I'm sure it's your own personal land to look at how to use it, and when we talk about state land, it's unfortunately soldiers who keep it and watch how grass grows.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109998	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u109999	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I really can't disagree with your remark. I can talk about general nature, I'm not familiar with individual projects. I'm always about to put every kind of property, mostly of course and state into an adequate function. So, as far as your questions are concerned, or your observations, whether it's better to stand something up or something in some function, the answer is, I think of myself as such. And I'm going to forward your replica and your inquiry to the rest of the matter and to the Ministry of Resort. What kind of cooperation is and what kind of communication is at the level of the resolution ministry with local self-government, we'll check to see if it's in any way and what's actually as planned. However, what I'm saying is the general observation is precisely that one should be among other things where it can be placed in an adequate manner of property into operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110000	Comrade Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110001	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected ministers and vice presidents in the government, as you yourself have said despite all the challenges that have met us from the crown to the Covid crisis to the earthquakes that have done financial damage like 3 crowns, and you yourself have stated that, in spite of all the challenges that have cost us more than 42 billion kuna so far, we still have a record number of employees as many as 42,000 more compared to last year and 80,000 more employees compared to the same time proposed. This rebalancing provides additional funding for salary growth, which has already increased by 32% in the government's mandate, for the further growth of pensions that grew between 20% and 26% in the government's mandate. And also what I want to especially praise is KBC Rijeka, the clinical hospital center that is the biggest investment in I especially commend Croatian health care [[Intruder: Thank you.]] additional funds for that. [[Intruder: Comrade Buric thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110002	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110003	Thank you, well-respected MPs, here as I am, and in the introduction I will start from this last part somewhere 48 million kuna is all expensive additional funds for KBC Rijeka secured. As far as the labour market is concerned, here I would say one thing that I would very much like to do in the Croatian Parliament, and also in the public for a long time, of course not only because of the crisis, first of all, of the pandemic, but also these others, of all of these macroeconomic indicators that we normally read, I'm the one who talks about them most often, we actually come down to the ones that are actually the most important. And that's the employment rate, and that's the level and level of pay, or standard of living. And here, of course, whatever we do, we always need and we can strive for better and higher because in the end, that's the only way we can solve and solve the key challenge of the Republic of Croatia, these are demographic issues. And at the same time, demographic issues can't be solved without a strong economy that speaks among other things and says at least entrepreneurs that the labour market is something, that is, labour force which requires improvement and improvement. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110004	Thank you. Comrade Vukovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110005	I thank the chairman, respected ministers, so Croatia also has a problem with having only 3.9 million inhabitants, and we have 4.1 million insurance companies in the HZZO, only 1.6 million of them are paying additional insurance, not reforming the more serious pension system itself, Croatia is a problem and billions that disappear in various suspicious incentives and subsidies, therefore public procurements in which we cannot notice that they are included in the top private sector itself, along with assistance and politics. We are paying more and more support in agriculture, and we are increasingly producing, whether these are serious problems for you, for which we are expecting some changes soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110006	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110007	Thank you well-respected MPs, so surely what you've listed doesn't reach everything and answer in a minute, but wherever and if any way is recorded that the funds are not used in accordance with some legal provisions of course there are certain legal mechanisms. But beyond that, I'm always about to make certain items that are all the way they should be legally implemented to be questioned among other things. You are, as a representative, always in your argument, let's say you mention the segment of agriculture. I think that here we can agree that many of these support all these years paid and given in agriculture have received certain results, but I think we can agree that it can certainly go where and where better because it is ultimately the global level of figures confirming Croatia's comparison with the RU. Just yesterday, Minister Vukkovic and I had one meeting with representatives of the agricultural sector and there, among other things, the same on that trail of speech, as well as in what way to improve an existing system. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110008	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110009	Thank you very much. Ministers, you spoke of energy, I would only briefly say that the current government boasts in your government that you are the vice president that 10% has accumulated energy in this crisis that we are the best in the EU. However, you very cleverly put it through HEP to local self-government, i.e. to the water lines so that it accumulated electricity in the water lines so that we could pump to the pool, so that in the mountain-mounted mountains we could pump water and that households could get and the economies you had collected no less than 500% with the fact that you had questioned the water supply to our households at all, mainly mountain-mounted areas. So how do you describe it that now as a majority owner in Sinj, I tell your plumber to pay exactly as last year 170,000 kunas of war plus 10% of kuna, and that's how I'm going to do it. And you come and turn it off. The electricity, so let Split have no water, no water [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] A sonic, cetinal end because it's a lie and a deception you covered up lies. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110010	Here's your answer. Please, Comrade Bull, you've been gone for 10 seconds. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110011	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your rep. I mean, as far as energy and energy prices are concerned, I don't think in Croatia who hasn't raised the price, starting from us individuals through entrepreneurs who, unlike citizens, don't have the kind of regime we have, but have, as a rule, contractual relations with individual distributors, thus already mentioned by HEP or gasmen etc., etc. and, in line with the new circumstances, these adjustments have taken place among other things. So it's all going back into the sphere of total inflation pressures on the side of the energy that we've tried and with this package that's gone into effect to ease. But we were as aware then as we are now that they cannot be fully neutralized as such. And what is certainly important is that within those legal provisions that we have and constitutional principles, which is primarily competition, we all behave responsibly only this problem can be solved jointly, and those who think that they can benefit a little bit more from something, I think it should still be put a little on the side.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110012	Thank you. A fellow Bull's injure of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110013	Thank you very much, President. The minister has injured the officer. 238th disdaining MP. 500% raised power for the water supply, 500%. An example of 2 million and 200 last year is now at 10.5 million in this year, and while you're doing it at the same time you tried to use teleopers from eight kunas to reduce to 2.40, to give them 300, 400 million in your pocket, they barely robbed our infrastructure. with the help of... [[Bulj fellow President: Thank you very much.]] Mudrinic, governments.../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110014	Thank you very much for getting your warning, colleague Bulj. You are getting a warning. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110015	What are you yelling at, warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110016	You've been warned.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110017	Jesus got them so look at Boric... I'm telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110018	Come on, buddy Bull, calm down. Let's go... colleague Boric, please stop throwing each other away. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's move on, Comrade Mazhar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110019	Thank you very much, President. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister of Finance. On the revenue side of the budget, which is extremely important for Croatian citizens, we see a strong step in the rapid withdrawal of agreed eu funds, in particular more than 58 billion kuna is paid to the Republic of Croatia, which is more than 70% of all contracted funds. But what is very important over the past week, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said that, thanks to the implementation of the 34th reform of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a prerequisite was created for the first 700m-euro war by the end of June, and 34 reforms include reforms and public administrations and the fight against corruption and health and education and energy and waste management and energy efficiency a building that shows everything the government does. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110020	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110021	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A lot of things I sign daily, and here is the parliamentary question after a year and a few days and a number of negative opinions from the Ministry of Finance. This was one of the memos that I was very pleased to sign, and that is the fact here is the Secretary of State of the County who has been operating amongst other things along with the special adviser of the Prime Minister to make this NPOO, but what we said and then one is one challenge to make it, more importantly to start implementing measures and that is actually what should certainly mention 34 of the 34 measures by the end of last year that we sent to the evaluation, confirmed. Here you have quoted yourself, paraphrased the words of the President of the European Commission, and the 700 million will arrive at us at the 6th month. With that dynamic, of course, we'll keep going. Otherwise, a few days ago, we were communicating the same information when you look at our beginning of our membership, 49.1 billion kuna, more Croatia has been coming in than it has paid in the EU budget. Add NPOO 55.2 billion. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110022	Thank you very much. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110023	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister. The fall will be challenging, it's actually all now the indicators are going according to inflation in the fall, the question is specifically so you said yourself that we've somehow spent this VAT law where you wanted to wait for entry into the euro zone. Please, if you can share here today with us two information, what are some other measures that Croatian citizens might expect in the autumn? It's very concrete that these measures are still going to be autumn I think they'll be much more challenging and not just because of the price of two-digit energys, the price of food just to calm the citizens in the fall, we're always kind of afraid of that autumn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110024	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110025	Yes, thank you very much, Your Honor. You said all right, of course not only in terms of some seasonality within the year, but autumn brings with it after a little vacation who manages to rest, yet the full start of the school year, announcements and general expectations of winter and heating, etc. and then, of course, in this context, we need to consider and further measures. I think as we have so far so can be expected still. The focus of all today is tomorrow possible measures, because I can't do them right now, and I don't want to announce them, and we talk about them, and when it's ready when and if it is, we're going to present them, but focus will certainly be food and energy, so that's two key measures. So these measures that you quoted and mentioned the VAT Act here for a month and a half days have been amended, VAT rates have been reduced and we know very well that we are going to shops to buy what the effects of that are and whether only a good measure of something is giving up in terms of the state budget if it has no effect on the citizens. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110026	Comrade Puljak, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110027	Well, here's the Honorable Minister, I'm actually worried about your health, I see that you've snuck up, just wondering if that's the result of you yelling at meetings all the time, enough is enough, can't it, is it? I don't know. Let me give you that one shirt. That's enough. Well, you're going to meetings with that shirt or for another reason, and you're saying don't fight me with Minister Beroshe, so I think we should have a fight with Minister Beroshe, not just you, but the Prime Minister, because the man obviously doesn't do his job well. You said you were a 7-year-old minister, probably all those seven years you've been hearing the same suggestions, and from even the Committee on Fiscal Policy that says we always need reforms in health, so here I'm asking you actually where is the limit of your patience, when is enough? Last year, 6.4 billion additional unplanned funds have been poured out, this year, here's four, who knows how long it's gonna be till the end, who knows how long it's gonna be, so where's your patience limit? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110028	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110029	Thank you very much and thank you very much for your consideration, it's all good but the voice, it's all good, it's all good, so I'll quickly recover to the amendment vote, I think it'll all be normal, but in any case, I don't think you can hear me and you understand me well, so as far as health is concerned, always for the last few years is the biggest part of our debate and comes down to the health issue, I don't really have anything new or any more to say in relation to all of this and now I'm saying, and it's clear that we health care system preserve as such we have, the pandemic has opened up to all of us even more eyes how important the public health system is, but also, the financial sustainability of the same and the height of the demographic images of doctors, nurses, technicians, the quality of services to all of us as citizens and the whole system as well as such. So, of course, I'll pass on your messages to my colleague Beros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110030	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110031	Thank you. Dear Minister, we in one, we from Most, in one awkward position that what we're saying, to prove true for a few years, means with a delay of 2, 3 years, so we warned HDZ and SDP in electing constitutional judges, see now who they elected in the Constitutional Court. We warned you and the government about inflation, then Minister Coric claimed that we are on call catastrophes, we now see that the forecasts are much worse, even than what we were saying. They also spoke and warned the government that it should not go in the direction of lockdown, not only to the government but also to the left opposition, so with the closure we see, you are saying what the consequences of such policies are for the state budget. I ask you if you are aware of what kind of Croatian citizens currently live in who have paid 5, 6000 kuna, are you aware that they cannot connect the end with the end, that they cannot survive the month and what will the government do?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110032	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110033	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Of course, your position now that you are in opposition, when you are no longer part of the parliamentary majority has changed significantly, and then all your warnings here you can characterise them, that you said something good, right and the like. It's our responsibility to act and we do and we do, so I have nothing special to say to you. So, the inflation at which someone warned or said, so it was very clear and many days ago it was very clear that the growth of interest rates was determined in some way and unmistakable and long before the energy crisis of inflation itself because for many years we lived in a period of historically low interest rates, monetary layoffs and we simply knew all together and well, not only the professional and scientific economic public, but that period must come as such, however, I repeat again, unlike you who, you can allow yourself to warn, we must act and do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110034	A fellow Grmo, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110035	Yeah, he's hurt. 238, because it turns out the minister says that in opposition we speak one thing in government another. These constitutional judges, the godfather of Branko Bačić, Sheparovic, this Mlakar, who falsely presents himself in Austria, were elected while we were part of the government, elected together by HDZ and SDP, and we said as part of the government that this was not a good way. So we also speak as part of the government and as part of the opposition and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110036	And there's a warning. Let's move on, Comrade Begonja, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110037	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, this year is by far unpredictable, the war in Ukraine, the border, refugees from Ukraine, the presence of COVID, inflation, etc., the government of the Republic of Croatia has helped citizens, employees, entrepreneurs and here recently the increase of the foundations of state and public officials. It also helped pensioners to cope with the inflation of energy - related movements above all. I am interested in what effect this can have in this time ahead of us, on the stability of the state budget if we continue to help, if there is a need and what effect can it have on the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110038	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110039	Thank you very much. Your Honor, counsel. Well, here's a few times actually, when you promote it I've talked about it but when you promote and now the replicas that have been sent so far, you have on one side and of course through the replicas, the demands to increase the separation from the state budget, then at the same time, be careful whether public finances are sustainable, is the deficit increased, if we're going to be able to serve all of this. Now, that's all in place, I'd say and our responsibility as a government is to balance it all together. We spoke countless times, and this was confirmed, when the pandemic broke out, all of this sort of thing that I don't say, curtains and some of the dots that existed in public finances were removed, where public finances were constantly said to be their own purpose. They confirmed exactly the opposite, that is, what we kept saying, that we had been doing and doing in order that today-to-morrow when the crisis broke out, we could react and that happened, 42 billion kunas where no one could have expected such a thing to happen, and the state budget, or fiscal policy, stopped. As well as any subsequent crisis, of course, we would have to be aware of both the limitations and the frequency of these same crises. It's not easy, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110040	Thank you. Comrade Greek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110041	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you mentioned something in the introduction about wages and pensions, but the harmonisation of 4% wages in inflation conditions last month was over 9%, so it doesn't cover 50% of the loss to say, purchasing power pays. On the other hand, pension correction in the first term of 2.24% is practically one quarter of inflation. So 75% is a loss of pensioner's purchasing power. And I really appeal to you, I know about what you're going to answer because you said it in the introduction, but I'm appealing for a particular model to be found in particular for the pensioners, with regular alignment once again in the second half of the year helping these people because it's a really difficult situation for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110042	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110043	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So one of the measures in this package of inflation-relieving effects was actually the same focus on pensioners. I'll say it again as I did in the previous line, in line with the overall general possibilities. None happier than either of you or all of you who are present here so that we can narrow down our pensions more and change or fix those relationships that we very often talk about, what is the ratio of the average salary, the average pension, what is the ratio of the number of employees, the number of pensioners, what is the average retirement rate in the Republic of Croatia, etc., etc. So these are all certain things you need, I'd say, consider. When you say pay, I have to react the following way. You've been watching for a year now. Yeah, that's how we discussed it with the unions. Let's watch the periodicals. Since 2016, we do not think that time begins, but you yourself, too, were then in the government, did not correct prices at all, that is, the amount of wages to state and public officials. Compare how much gross, net wages, nominal and real wages have grown.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110044	Thank you. Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110045	Minister Maric, six months ago here in the assembly you assured us that you would achieve savings in the health system by 5.3 billion kuna, although it was quite clear that there is no standstill in this because it cannot result from any health reform that is not available and could not be expected at all that hospitals will reduce health debts. On the contrary, we now see that at the monthly level health debt increases by 400 million kuna. You are now proposing with this budget that this item for health care be increased by 3.5 billion kuna for debt recovery and the financing of increased costs, but you are still hiding the fact that nearly 3 billion kunas remain, which are still unsettled, and the outstanding debts, which are still not shown in the budget. My question to you is, as long as you maintain this collapse of the health system and how long will you send a message to the public that there is no money in the health care system for medicines, but there is no money for suspicious jobs from the Ministry of Health?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110046	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110047	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I really don't think I did it because I certainly wouldn't do it, convince you of something about health care, I'm not the health minister. I answer as a rule to your questions and replicas as well as to many media and for longer than any subject, most I deal with, among other things, health care, but I'm acting as Minister of Finance. So I have to look at the financial sustainability of that same system and as you said in previous replicas, and it's my job and my responsibility when we get to this situation to secure these funds. Am I glad? It's not. I've said that many times. Many times and the only solution we see and all the time we advocate is to make an adequate and quality reform that will reduce this pressure on the revenue side that you do not think Minister Maric or his team is paying for something. That's what we all pay together as taxpayers. Now, and that is why it is necessary on the cost, distribution side, for the 3rd time today, I will probably say, a few more times, my personal attitude, as well as how to achieve the long-term financial sustainability of the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110048	Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110049	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, Your Honor. I also have to refer to health care because, of course, this rebalance shows what problems we're in. A few years ago, I gave you a pack of C vitamins and C vitamins to help you, it'll be better for you, but I don't know what will help our health care, or what I'd like to know, you said a little over a year ago that if, when it comes to health care, if there's any dynamics like this, then you've referred to yourself, we're in the same place for a year, we haven't done anything. I'm afraid your words were not prophetic but true, but worse. What do you do? What do you do? How's that? Because only in half a year will you come, or you will go to the end of the year for the next rebalancing, we know that you and I, next year, or the end of the year will be the new budget, and we haven't done anything in healthcare. So I have a feeling, no matter how much money there is never enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110050	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110051	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm going to thank you once more for that box, she helped, but obviously it's not this next sentence right now, so I'm looking for the next box, but obviously I spent everything in the box, at least according to my voice, it's heard, there's no vitamin C or calcium, it's all gone. In any case, this, similar or simple or the same as in the previous replica and many others, and I can talk about the mandate of this government, on several occasions these resolutions were carried out, more or less on the income side, we had even one situation when for the first time, I think, in Croatian history, we spent a resolution without increasing the public debt and impacting the deficit because we found a whole series of other savings to give the health incentives. And then, like now, we stay more or less on the same and again the same solution and result and I see on the cost side.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110052	Comrade Cappelly, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110053	Your Honor, your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister. The revenues from tourism last year were about 9 billion foreign tourists, if we add up another 1 billion cca domestics we come somewhere to 10 billion and in 2019 they were somewhere with domestics about 12 billion. So it's probably how you calculated the revenues that could be generated this year by the base of fiscalized accounts, you can see this increase, and it's certain that there will be a serious reaction. I would say on this occasion that a very serious calculation, based on the opening, is Schengen space, to count somewhere between 5% and 7% will increase traffic, i.e. activities in tourism. Also, I'm curious a little bit about how they'll resist and the way, we know that the mechanism of reducing inflation is the increase in interest. Will that also reduce investment in tourism? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110054	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110055	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I went to check the fiscalization data right away. Okay. I mean, the tourist season, you know very well as a minister, a former tourism minister who thinks about it, not only in that position but in general. These first 5.5 months in the tourism total may not be so significant, but still, indicators where, when compared to last year, the index of 254 actually says that it is a very good achievement. However, we want and, of course, we will do everything in spite of all these challenges to reach this level of pre-crisis 2019 this year, we were fully aware of that when Covid broke out, that tourism, as well as some other service activities, will suffer the greatest damage and that it will take the longest time to recover as such. But this is a very good point that you said in the second part of your replica, and that's the question of interest rates. I think it's my job and my responsibility to both tourist actors and their investment cycles to send unequivocal messages. Optimism but with argument, which is that despite everything, and this announced increase We need to do everything we can to keep the investment cycles going. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110056	Comrade Kovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110057	I thank the Honorable President, Your Honor. The specific question, here, I've studied that budget a little bit. I'm curious, you know yourself that for a few years now we've been talking about the Center for Education and Education in Čakovec, it's reduced by almost 3 million in this rebalancing, I'm afraid at the end of the year when you're going to do another rebalancing or not being used. You yourself know that, specifically now, former Minister Mr. Horvat, you and I have agreed, two years ago it must have been a specific meaning for the opening of the work of that center. So far, it hasn't moved from the dead spot and anything else I'm interested in, when you were talking about following what other countries are bringing in as measures in the environment, especially as regards energy and food, food products, I'd draw your attention that here, look at neighbouring Hungary where today you have a situation for the residents of Međimurje to go tank and drive fuel cars that can be fueled save up to 400 kuna per tank, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Let's not talk about how much cheaper they are. [[Thank you very much.]] These live supplies. [[Intruder: Comrade Kovac, thank you very much. Here's your answer.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110058	Thank you, Your Honor, for the Center for Education and Education, I immediately think of it, and I see also a representative from Slavonski Brod, Milan Amruš School and similar examples of MPs, also, Pracina from Brod, me personally, therefore, a generic response. As far as we're concerned, we'll secure the funds, we think they're good projects. However, clear conditions need to be created for their fulfillment. I can't, I don't know all the details now, the permits, relations with local self-government, whether there are any objections, whatever, so as such, it's important, among other things, that this item in the budget as such stands, if the dynamics of realisation are accelerated, there will be financial resources, we're not talking about billions here, we're not talking about health care, we're not talking about some reason that we should go into rebalancing or not go into rebalancing, but rather just finishing these projects. Here's the already mentioned school of Milan Amrus is really think all over, I'd say, come to the point of simply saying we should do it, period.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110059	Comrade Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110060	Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, I have to admit, a little government in this world in four months admits to being incompetent. You did it, and now the question, if you admit what you wrote in the budget in 4 months, admit it's not feasible, and you've been warned, it's about health care, you've admitted that you're incapable of managing the system as you predicted. But I have another question, and what you do is try to explain to the citizens who make $4.5,000, who fill the budget that's worth 6.5 billion more than they say, solidarity, you gave 600 million to help with energy, what happened to the rest of the money, and what happened to those additional 4 billion deficits that are emerging, and it encourages the economy that should be the key to where They're getting people's salaries, not at all. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague Brumnic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110061	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110062	Thank you, Your Honor, this first part really has nothing to comment on and go back and forth and ask you when you were doing rebalancing and when you work, I don't know right here in the City of Zagreb or anything like that, but I'm not going to say about this second di. As for the measures to help the economy, I was just talking about it, unlike Covid, where the greatest emphasis was on entrepreneurs, here are on the socially most vulnerable groups of the population put an emphasis. However, also aware that by reducing the rate, say VAT, you don't have to fully hit the target you're targeting because it's not just up to you, cut the tax. Also for other measures. And what you're talking about, of course, is that, as such, it's not easy between the other and the measure that you've put into operation, its full effect as such to see and realize the results anyway, but I think that without these measures, the effects on inflation would unfortunately be even bigger and worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110063	Here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110064	... He's hurt his ankle. 238 insulting me personally because he is aware that the budget in the City of Zagreb, when it was passed, I have several times warned about the things that the City of Zagreb did, which you directly approved because you were the ones who approved of the City of Zagreb because you were the ones who approved.../incomprehensible/... indirect responsibilities of the City of Zagreb because you were the ones who approved the de facto concessions in the City of Zagreb that we see today as having passed, and I am personally you. [[Specially enabled.]] Warned. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much. A colleague, a colleague...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110065	Brumnic, you're getting a second warning. ... Because it's... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] First, let's do this, first a little bit, a little bit, calm down. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So first of all, you've replicated, Minister, the Vice-President of the Government has done nothing to offend you, I guess everyone here is present and everyone watching TV sees it and knows it. So you've now used the breach of the Rules of Procedure to replicate it, and that's why you've been warned, here. ... And my colleague Brumnic, come on, please, so anyone can be offended when someone makes a statement that doesn't suit him. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, come on, then don't be there if it bothers you so much. Let's move on. Comrade Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110066	Thank you, well-respected president of HS, Your Honor, here's the opposite, of course, of course he'll say the opposite side is expected. I think that the government has been faced with a number of difficulties indeed, and this budget has been particularly affected by an increase in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare as well as by the government's financial difficult measures to mitigate inflation and increased energy prices. 157 million were directed to improve the business of social care institutions. Compensation for the threatened electricity buyer 263 million, and what many others in particular, and what I particularly want to stress is that there are increased and secured funds for the implementation of individual activities activities from European funds. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110067	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110068	Thank you, well-respected MPs for that, both on the replica and on the fact that you just recognized what I was saying. That offered by facts and expectations that inflation pressures are about to affect everything, indeed all layers of society, but that in some relative sense it will have a stronger effect on the most socially endangered. And that is why we have tried to respond to them as much as possible, but still aware of the fact that we cannot fully protect or protect anyone, we see both the situation in other countries. All measures, I will repeat once again when you are looking at the entire package that the European Commission has finally verified and in some way characterised as among the more generous because our weight package is over 1 and, 1% of GDP, compared to the 0.6 average, is actually the most talked about. But aware of all the circumstances, the uncertainty, the challenges, of course we can't find out that's what we've done, and in all of this, we've done this right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110069	Hey, buddy Buck, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110070	Thank you. Dear Ministers are expecting us in this second half of this year to re-coordinate pensions. The current value of the pension will increase in 70 percentage points this time with price increases and this pension increase will likely be the largest in the last 10 years. Now, this rebalance envisions an increase in income from pension insurance contributions from 26 billion to 28 billion, but in that second part of the transfer from general incomes and receipts was foreseen in the original plan and has now remained the amount of approximately 19.3 and 19.1 billion kuna respectively. My question is very simple. Will that be enough? In the plan, already in the plan for last year and in the execution of that part, the transfer from the general incomes and receipts to the pension insurance office amounted to more than 20 billion kuna. It seems to me that exactly one billion kuna might be missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110071	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110072	Thank you, Your Honor, yes, as far as the pension system is concerned, I spoke on purpose and initially, among other things, with the intention of sending a message that if the funds are insufficient, it will be provided as such and that the pensioners will in no way come into any kind of concern as to what will happen in the second half of the year. The funds will be provided. It would be great to have this conclusion of yours, as well as mine, that in the second half of the year we expect a bigger increase in pensions and a bigger indexation. It would be great if, in the follow-up to that sentence, it was because of that growth in wages, not because of the growth in inflation. However, circumstances and reality are different. However, in accordance with the positive legal rules, we will carry out the indexation and, outside these positive regulations, we have implemented this one-time supplement payment as well as in Covid, both now and now for energy. And we know for ourselves that there's a very high base and I'll tell you again about the pension system no one happier than me that we can increase more.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110073	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110074	Thank you. I would like to know what the state will do if there is an increase in the interest rates of the European Central Bank and if they produce a recession, a decline in production, an increase in unemployment and a rise in public debt. Whether it will have the possibility to implement anticyclical food policies that would ensure complementary growth of public consumption or will continue to implement the policies of financial consolidation under the rules of the European Stability Pact, etc., taking into account that it is with the crown, and before that, meaning having in mind and some conukture then comes the corona and is put on hold means the pact of that European stability, etc., all the rules of the European Semester. Will we now, in view of inflation, still mean to return and raise the interest rate and return the limit of meaning in the respect in which I have stated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110075	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110076	Thank you, well-respected MPs, you've given everything well, I'd only make one small correction to your replica. He wouldn't even use the futur at all, but he'd already say what we're doing. When it happens, the announcement itself, let's see what the Fed's been doing, we can finally see what's going on in the financial markets. I talked about it in public a few days and weeks ago. We issued a bond at a big week just before Easter for 10 years a little less 3%. The same 12-year bond a year ago was 1.2%. And at that moment, we were the first member of the EU, not a member of the euro area who could at all betray and issue a bond as such. So, imminent and visible is this growth of interest. And we're on it I would say of course and count when I say and use the term ready, of course that means you have a solution. We can't have anyone to have solutions for all this, but it's very important, it's extremely important, with measures to fight inflation, to preserve economic growth, it's very important. Most importantly. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110077	Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110078	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, we heard some untruth that wanted to slip through the debate about our reduction of funds for reconstruction. It's a good thing we fixed it, that it doesn't burden us during the day anymore, but what I want to draw attention to is one piece of news that's been going through these two days, but it's pretty undetected. This is Croatia's progress on the economic freedom index scale. And when something happens in the six years that this government has managed almost 50 places to improve the position of the Republic of Croatia, only the last year 34 places clearly show what and how it is done. The biggest accent that is given in this review is exactly what you have spent as a minister, which is a few rounds of tax reform as one of the greatest values and effects of such tax reforms on status, means our population, workers, etc. So now I'm asking, really, do we really have any other opportunities to do something about it and what do you expect to do about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110079	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110080	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So this is exactly the report you quote as numerous other international, relevant and when you look at all countries horizontally who still have the best insight into the situation in certain countries but also in others, I would say they are important. And then when something is possible and they say critically, it should always be considered, because they certainly speak probably. But also when they say positive. You quoted a report, I said a little bit of Fitch's report a few days ago. These are all, however, reports that can actually confirm, that, of course, taking into account all the circumstances and challenges and uncertainty we have, not wanting pink coloring the situation in Croatia, but still showing that certain things are well done and done in an adequate way. However, the challenges we are currently facing are not specific to the Republic of Croatia, but we can say global challenges. And under these circumstances, these and such circumstances must always work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110081	Comrade Dreven Buddinski, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110082	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister. The revenue side of the budget is determined by further growth in economic activity and by efforts to mitigate inflation, i.e. pressure on citizens and the economy. Thus, the estimated revenue from value added tax known as our VAT is based on the projections of the growth of personal consumption, tourist services, consumption and investment. The government of the Republic of Croatia reduced VAT to certain products and temporarily reduced excise duties on electricity. In spite of the government's efforts, the price of products continues to rise, so I am interested in whether or not we can expect the effects of this reduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110083	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110084	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It's just a little bumping into your replica, don't mind me. The government did not reduce electricity excise duty, as it cannot even reduce it at a minimum level. We practically have de jure, but we don't actually have and we're incomeing some sort of symbolic amount of about 30 million kuna a year. We've cut to fuel. There is still little space, however, taking into account still the element of uncertainty where and how prices of crude oil will move on international markets that affect fuel again, there is as much space as we left behind, and we will see, if necessary, still react. But you've well apostrophe of this VAT where we all need each other together I'd say in an affirmative way what's important, and that's actually to contribute because we're a market economy, there's no price regulation, there's no element of coercion. But that through competition is actually stimulated that this tax reduction is being overrun where the goal is, in this particular case to the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110085	Thank you. Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110086	Dear Minister, five months ago we warned here about health problems. We have clearly warned that those resources planned for healthcare are not enough and we do not understand how this is possible, that regardless of the medicines, we must pay this debt if we want to provide our services to our citizens. However, there are other basic duties from our hospitals. For example, special hospitals are also obliged to HZZO because they were unable to fulfil their obligations because of the covid of the crisis, because of the conditions of course established by the Government and the Staff. How is it possible that the health minister didn't predict it and that in five months he missed the budget by 4 billion, and we know that's not enough. It'll take us another 3.4 billion by the end of the year to cover all the costs. That's the first question. And the second question, what about the development agreement north? So last year, 27.12. The agreement was signed. So far, no ministry has responded to a conversation, an agreement, to a meeting that could be met.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110087	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110088	Thank you very much. For the development agreement, I'm going to ask my colleague Fuchs, I don't have information right now, and I don't have any excessive answers that can tell you where, at what stage. As far as health care itself is concerned, you mentioned the problem of a special hospital, general hospital, KBCs. I'm looking at it. It's all the same to me. I'm looking at total figures on whether someone is the founder and owner of local self-government and state. When the payment bill comes, secure the funds. How and how it's going to be transferred, I'd say the same thing among other things more about my personal impression. So for years we've been lost in a variety of less important things. A few years ago, here you can also testify among your colleagues the main topic was the exclusion of HZZO from the Treasury and that will solve all our problems. Did we get rid of them? The answer is self-inflicted. So also now that someone asks me if someone should be and change the ownership structure it is less important, it is important to achieve financial sustainability.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110089	Comrade Antoliæ Vupra, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110090	The respected ministers did not pass seven fat cows, not seven good years passed but began to come and thin, but the covid crisis was huge, there was an energy crisis, we were in inflation. We can agree that one of the most endangered groups that feel the burden of crisis are retired. So, after you've paid off the covid supplement, after you've paid off the energy supplement, will you support the SDP's proposal to pay off the inflation supplement in the fall that will be a very questionable quality of life for the pensioners right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110091	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110092	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Of course, it's absolutely legitimate for you to look for certain things and for the good part we'd say how and how we're considering this problem exactly the measures you mentioned yourself. And again I'll say for the third time today no one happier than me and us in the government that we can do more and as far as coordinating and increasing pensions and some single and similar supplements etc. all to improve the standard of living of our pensioners as such. But of course we have certain limitations. So, politically speaking, when you put up with something like this and that someone is possibly against you, you will, of course, conclude that we are against the pensioners. I think it's clear, not that we're not against the pensioners, but we're strong for them, and that's why I've been sending unequivocal messages all the time because I know how and how this theme can be reflected in some way, and I don't know how to expect a bigger indexation in the next half of the year. Will there be enough resources? It will. the funds will be provided... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110093	My colleagues, Grba Bujević, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110094	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Ministers. Health care will get 4.3 billion and a further 3.8 billion with this rebalancing. In addition to disbursement of debts in health care, this money is also intended for the payment of funds that one other government, not this government, has caused with regard to healthcare professionals and is also intended for Ukrainian people from Ukraine for Ukrainian refugees. Let me just remind you that there are 18,000 Ukrainian refugees in the Republic of Ukraine that we care about, and the same way that the healthcare system has provided 8,733 health services, a good part of which is related to hospital health institutions. This cost no one could predict, last year there was no war in Ukraine, and I welcome it because it will allow health institutions to have the same means to cover those services. There you go. Of course, we thank you for all that money. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110095	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110096	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs, and thank you very much for that replica because we are glad to extend the topic of health through the problem and only the supplier and the wholesaler. I don't think they deserve the overall health and health reform issues to be all about drugs either. We all know very well who are doing your entire career and many others here doctors and others, and I can say, too, based on past experiences as Minister of Finance, but by following this problem, I think we can conclude that the problem is where and where more comprehensive than the drugs themselves. Covid has shown how important and valuable he is and what he has done and made a health system, and that is why I think it is in everyone's best interest to put him on financially sustainable feet so that he can handle all the challenges and in some beautiful times, especially when times of crisis come again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110097	My colleagues, Pocrnic-Radosevic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110098	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister. Given the proposal to amend and supplement the state budget for 2022. In the part of the active labour market policy, in the Ministry of Labour and HZZ, an increase of 482 million kuna was reported to be a new plan defined at 2 billion and 96 million kuna, which is an increase of 29.9%. Also, an increase of 26.7% was recorded in the active employment policy item and the total amount was 135 million kuna. The follow-up is expected to continue and implement active employment policy measures in the future, whether our employers and unemployed persons can also count on governmental incentives for employment and maintenance despite upcoming inflation and potential external factors which can affect the situation in the economy. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110099	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110100	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You have well analyzed the budget of the Ministry of Labour in total about two and three billion, respectively, when we look at all the sources. Active employment policies such as measures so far... slowly issuing... are always in focus, so on that side sure that will continue to encourage active employment. We know and we have ourselves still in force some of those measures, so let's call them covid measures to preserve jobs where and where in a narrow sense, but this is among other things here and until recently my colleague, now former Minister Aladrovic has said very nicely once. So we went from that conservation phase to the creation phase, that's the phase we are in, and I think, despite these crisis situations and moments, that's the key variable that we need to grow. I'm going to paraphrase the entrepreneurs again, what they need is the most important workforce.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110101	Thank you. Minister, six more replicas... Six more minutes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There's a fellow byste.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110102	Dear Minister. They say inflation is a friend of the state budget and an enemy of the standard of living of citizens and the economy. I must stress that we are in the same situation as a number of European countries. After the Ukrainian crisis, the prime ministers announced sets of measures that are related to the two... living standards and, of course, the preservation of the economy. I will stress that in these 11 billion surpluses or increases in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, there are not those two things, however, you pointed out that we are only implementing those measures that we had for the covid crisis and fasting in this case... before the Ukrainian crisis. I wonder why such great resources don't go to the citizens? Why aren't they heading towards the economy? I'm also going to say that that answer [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] I expect not only from you but probably from the Prime Minister, is it usually the Prime Ministers.../The speakers speak at the same time./... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110103	Thank you, fellow Bice. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110104	Thank you very much, Your Honor. What you're saying is I'm not sure that any finance minister has ever said that is a friend inflation friend of the budget only if you're looking at a separate revenue side of the budget. If that were the case if I turned down all these claims and the cost hikes I would now be in my office watching you discuss here a third point, and that extra income finely enlisted, recorded the surplus and said that, however, circumstances are where and where different. You know the cost side itself that is really under the great effect and effect of this same inflation and all this that we are talking about here and the health system and the pension system and the salaries and care of refugees and the anti-inflation package measures etc., etc. As regards comparisons with other countries, I will say again, don't ignore that fact and the European Commission itself says, our package is among the more betrayed, significantly above the average, and you know that many countries have had election cycles, etc. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110105	Comrade Peric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110106	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. It's easy for some colleagues here to find that the rebalancing is now incompetence, and it's forgotten how much effort has been made in 2021 when you've also reduced income tax and profit tax, when these effects have been quite evident. In addition, when looking at how much damage the pandemic had done and what seemed to have been done, there was already a mention of the VAT that was already mentioned at the beginning of the year immediately, the intervention was to reduce and that in this way the effects of the inflation that was expected, which already in 2021 had its indications, therefore very active, very engaged precisely in this direction tried to work and seemed to be inflation and all these negative effects were stabilised.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110107	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110108	Thank you very much. Well, as with a number of other things in life timing is of crucial importance for those measures and covids, and so now it's not only appropriate to respond, but also timely and taking into account everything, let's just say I'm being offered your replica, as we just heard about the warnings, because who was warning you. So take both the projections and the estimates of the European Central Bank, a few months ago expectations were the first half of the year, in the second half of the year the appearance of the blowout, expectations have changed, are we going to say that someone in the European Central Bank doesn't know something, they are certainly among the best experts in monetary policy and monitoring the general movement of inflation and it is certainly for them to believe, but the circumstances have, in the meantime, agreed on additional challenges and unfortunately this has deepened all together. In these circumstances, of course, it is important to act, but to seek and find the best moment when and the effect of your actions will be so seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110109	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110110	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, when you were more than six years ago. becoming Minister of Croatia was in the process of excessive budget deficits and in the procedure of excessive macroeconomic imbalances, since then, Croatia has emerged from both procedures. In the meantime, both Croatia and Europe and the world were first affected by a health, health crisis that has become overrun by the economy and now the security situation conditioned by Russia's aggression to Ukraine. I am now interested in today, where Croatia is today, what does the European Commission say and where, compared with other older ones, the EU Member States are setting us up financially, is Croatia today a stable state when it comes to public finances and how are we compared to the EU average?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110111	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110112	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Referring to this start of the mandate not only to me but to the governments in 2016, I will remind everyone not only that we were in the category of countries with excessive macroeconomic imbalances at the time, it even threatened us to fall another step lower than I remember any country had ever been before. We have managed to stop it, and then in the years to come, to improve our status, and I expect a lot of reports from the European Commission these days, and the convergence report from the European Central Bank and the European Commission, and so on, that's what you're talking about. Our efforts all these years have been so far, and I am sure we will continue to recognize today's picture of Croatia in these very circumstances that you say we are a country with an investment rating, which we have not recently been, a country without excessive fiscal and budgetary imbalances, which we have recently been, and we are also not a country with imbalances economically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110113	Thank you. Now it's time for my colleague, Juričev-Martinchev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110114	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, and yesterday in Sibenik, it could be heard that President Milanovic criticises the withdrawal of European funds and says that only 5 billion kunas are in a positive compared to the EU budget or later in a second statement, so I think it is good that our citizens know that more than 125% of the available funds have been agreed, that more than 70% has been paid and that we are in plus almost 50 billion, and when we add the NPOO funds to more than 55 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110115	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110116	Thank you very much, I didn't listen to the president's statement yesterday, but you yourself said he explained it further, and these are the figures that you said at the end, so I'm going to do it again, and I was just saying the same thing, 49.1 billion when we've been looking at it since the beginning of our formal membership as much as we've withdrawn from how much we've paid, when the NPOO 55.2 billion kuna is added to it in favour of the Republic, so plus that relationship, and I think that balance is actually going to be further improved because with the multi-year financial framework that is now ending and will be valid for the next 7 years. Croatia continues to have significant and substantial NPOO funds. In any case, despite what I'd say to be in that plus, it's very important to continue this dynamic, to continue this dynamic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110117	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Bartula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110118	Thank you, dear Minister, we're almost there, I hope the vote will last a little while longer. In these discussions that we have had so far, you certainly know my position that the share of the total state is too high, too high in Croatia, public spending is also worrying for me. In addition to all these extraordinary situations, it seems to me that the government has not done much that only she can. So I agree that it's limited what you can do about inflation and other things right now, but around structural reforms, you're the only one who can do it, so my question again applies to these sectors where it actually burns, health care. You were in a session with a colleague, Beros, when I asked him about health care, he admitted that nothing was reformed and we still have a socialist approach. Do you agree that we cannot expect to rationalise expenditure without introducing market mechanisms into that system including the source those who pay not only to be HZO [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bartulica.]] It's about the competition. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110119	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110120	Thank you very much, Your Honor, and also at this session, as well as in this very much commentary in which direction you should take further steps and just before I was responding to the problem of medicines I said. It really needs to be looked at comprehensively. Not just one segment to isolate and manage this problem but a complete system to watch. Do not send any messages that immediately deter any step and any reform. Let's just say I don't know it's nationalization of the health system or privatization, is that this or that, these are very flat-rate assessments. This should be accessed comprehensively and watch all segments and according to our and constitutional principles and principles, but of course and everything we seek, implement something that will ultimately ensure the financial sustainability of this important system and others. You mentioned total structural reforms and I'm always naturally affirmative of such species.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110121	Thank you. And the last replica, Comrade Bilek, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110122	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Government, and here's the inflation that we've heard a lot about here today is not just a matter of Republic and some management in one way or another, unfortunately it's a global matter in case and security threats, everything we've had with the health system, but following this and what you've been talking about, and a few countries in the environment as I've noticed some of them are already in inflation as far as the two-digit figures are concerned. So I would only like to ask where we are in this work because indeed and how much I have heard from colleagues from the EU and from the Czech Republic who will soon chair our package is really betrayed in this direction and is aimed directly at the economy, but also at households and all people and citizens of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110123	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110124	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, in April, let's say that we achieved inflation that is something in that upper half of the countries, but as far as I'm saying again, the average of the last 12 months are really here, and all this time we wouldn't even be worried about comparisons with other countries if we just compared ourselves to the average. And you said exactly the Baltic lands, the many countries of the so-called. The old members of both the EU and the European Monetary Union, such as the Netherlands and the like, have stepped long ago into the two-digit inflation rate zone. And they're simple facts. These are facts and in all this, of course, all these measures that we are talking about here and our actions both at national level and at European level, I think they should be focused. It is very important, of course, that monetary authorities, the European Central Bank, will work, and I still hope that there is room at national level and so will our CNB. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110125	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, has endured all these replicas, now let's get some repurchaser, and we'll move on. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP, two representatives of counterparts Grbin and counterpart Lalovac will speak. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110126	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm a little hurried, Mr. Vice-President. I'm sorry that this is a voice situation for you. You can always have very specific and correct discussions, and it's a recognition that needs to be given to you. But it wasn't easy for you today, it wasn't easy for you to defend this rebalancing. And this rebalancing and this early rebalancing is actually the consequence of two circumstances. One is external, and that's inflation, that's war in Ukraine, the Russian aggression that's happening. However, apart from external reasons for rebalancing, we and our Croatian internals, which is bad planning at the end of last year. Bad planning in certain corridors or I'll let myself say that maybe even a false display of numbers, numbers, for example in health care. So respected colleagues and colleagues if we are out of opposition based on what happened last year, on the basis of external indicators, we have seen that the amount envisaged for health care is not enough then you, especially you from the Ministry of Finance, especially the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, must also see it. And you didn't predict enough resources and what, you had to admit a few weeks ago that health debts grew at a rate of 400 to 500 million kuna a month. And at that rate, if we look at what's supposed to be rebalancing, it won't be enough to cover these debts by the end of the year, which means that this rebalancing is also suffering from problems like the budget. But let's go back to inflation for a moment. We had to rebalance what was the government's measure of February this year. It's a commitment. When you have measures that weigh 5 billion kunas, then you have to show them in rebalancing. However, after the measures we went out with in February, we do not have new ones, and other EU Member States, not to go wider, are constantly adopting such measures. And what's going to happen? On the one hand, their citizens will be better protected from Croatians, and on the other hand their entrepreneurs who will receive from their countries of support will be more competitive and will endanger the position of our entrepreneurs and also on our Croatian market. Two months ago, the EU gave a framework to Member States. That's what we talked about here in the Croatian Parliament. However, Croatia is not benefiting from the framework. What we are proposing is very concrete measures. First, fairer pension coordination to ensure their growth and maintain value in the age of inflation. Secondly, the new supplement you called energy, and I would call it an inflationary supplement for pensioners because it is now quite clear that this inflation does not stop it will be even bigger by the end of the year. In April 4 countries at the monthly rate of inflation in the EU, 4. Thus, we are speeding up and need new measures to help those who are the most vulnerable. Of course, in this regard, we must also consider whether a round of vouchers should be expanded and their amount increased. Further, measures towards entrepreneurs. You'll say it's not the same situation as it was during Covid. No, but it has many features that make it comparable. We cannot allow our entrepreneurs who have already lost the market of Ukraine and Russia not to be able to look for new markets, we simply cannot, especially in a situation where the EU Member States are acting, we cannot allow our entrepreneurs to be put in a worse position than in the one where they already are. Of course, other than the vouchers, in addition to the addition of pensioners to both better and fairer pension coordination, tax policy should also be changed according to energy, primarily towards fuel, in order to ensure that this growth is contained, but also the issue of income tax or non-taxable part. I mentioned health care, the debt of growth, the reform is gone, the consequences of citizens do not have a quality health system and I will not just talk about recent examples that we have talked about very much in the previous days, but this is a systemic problem, our health in these circumstances is not able to meet their obligations, the citizens did not deserve it, the citizens pay it and have the right to get something in return. And finally rebuilding, you said 300 million kunas more, I hold you by the word, but the fact is that the Fund for Reconstruction is being reduced, that's a fact, and at the same time it's a fact that we can read in the media that people who have been promised that their houses will be built by June and that in early June they will be able to enter them, testify that the works are standing, that the construction workers don't have 10 to 15 days and that there's no theoretical chance that the deadline we set ourselves will be fulfilled. These are all the problems that indicate how this government doesn't work, and then, as a result, as much as this rebalance doesn't really reflect the real situation, it's necessary, but it's not enough. He does not provide answers to either the inflation crisis, nor the health crisis, nor the recovery crisis, he does not provide funds to combat inflation and preserve citizens' standards, and therefore we cannot support him in the SDP, and now I leave the word to my colleague, Lalovec, who will speak more specifically about certain things that do not work in this budget, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110127	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. How interesting it is during a certain period of time when the state is in crisis here today to hear whether we are successful or not, so I listen here to my colleague Bačić imply that the SDP government was in macroeconomic imbalances in 2014, '15, '16, then the HDZ government showed up and it's all great, wonderful, fantastic, and for example. We don't remember when he was Minister in 2008. If we were in bananas, if we were in bananas, that's what the prime minister said at the time, is HDZ, is we in bananas, then the finance minister was the Secretary of State, we had an investment rating, could he be in charge, do you think he could be in charge, what were the macroeconomic environment for Croatia at the time? I don't think Minister Schuker was a bad minister, because then there were such macroeconomic circumstances for Croatia they were like that, and the prime minister said we were in bananas, then she came in 2014 and '15. when Croatia was in recession. Remember what happened in Greece? Shutting down an ATM, rioting on the roads. What happened in Spain? It's a riot, isn't it? What happened in Ireland, what happened in Italy, what happened in Croatia? We were... There were no riots as they were in those lands. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I see today that's what this is about, it was a bad government of SDP, so then she did it, what's changing today, right? The macroeconomic environment is changing, it is changing, it is changing that we are now not only a full member of the EU but we are joining the euro area, they are watching us differently, it is a political decision and it is good for Croatia. We have always said what is good for Croatia that it is good and we will never do it, and when some things are good by the government we will praise, but we can't just do it here now just so we're going to hit it here from 2016 is all great, we've got all these instruments, and we'll see it very quickly so I'm not telling you this for bad purposes, because we've had opportunities for a number of reforms that have been expected from us, don't forget what the European Commission has asked of many member states in 2014, '14. And in '15. Yeah, what were those measures about... etc., what happened in the EU then? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] A number of riots were in southern Europe, yes, a very large dissatisfaction was about it. Europe has changed its structure today, no more talking about having to cut, that we have to tighten the belt, etc. You know what happened, what was Germany's policy? Now we've all said with the covid crisis you spend, is that what the President of the Commission said, spend, spend, spend, return the economy. What happened? Well, we've printed so much money, we've spent so much on inflation with this disorder, the disturbance on the market, so the circumstances of the European Commission for the countries have changed in 2014 and '15. When we have been unbalanced and changed today is, as they have changed, we will see how the European Central Bank is going to go towards it, and instead of talking here today, and we know that these measures that need to matter, but let's not forget that 30% of them, every honor you've increased your salary in the public sector 30%, whether you've increased public sector productivity by 30%, whether we've increased public sector productivity ask the entrepreneurs if, if we're public sector, all right, all of them are looking for public sector, looking for these, looking for them, whether we've increased, if we're better, we can, for foreign investment in Croatia, be more productive that our country is closer to investment and to start the economy, look for what's going on, so the projections of what's happened here. Private investment will stop, you know why, is it so uncertain in the long term about inflation, as far as interest rates are concerned, as far as the raw materials of private investment are concerned, not at zero, that they will come but they have all stopped and are waiting for the next year to do so. Who's the only investor? Well, the only investor is the state, the only investor through reconstruction, through funds, and that's one part of the money that goes into guidance and restoration. Let's not forget, and just here in projections it says that personal consumption is going to slow down, and of course it will slow down when inflation and when it is, when prices are what they are. So let's not fool ourselves that there will be money from Europe forever. Someone also needs to rebuild Ukraine and they expect about 500 billion dollars. How much Europe will give, how much America will give. Circumstances change, they change quickly, they'll be replaced in six months, today what we're saying here doesn't necessarily mean that in six months it'll be worth it. But that's why it's up to us here, if we can agree that some things are from public administration reform, reform and local administrations that we've just gone through again. I'm the only one who's sad, is that it's only here that the government has given up any kind of reform. I'm telling you the truth. Not just in health care. At least for a time there's been talk about it is, let's just let this part of what you're talking about there write for this NGO whether we're going to create it because we feel on the expense side whether entrepreneurs are satisfied, whether the citizens in that part of the reform, that in that part, that alone now that we have the opportunity, when we have the money in that part, that we're in that system that we can withstand this kind of pressure, that we can endure this kind of pressure, right? We, now, agree we now have an intervention filling, intervening the land of this natural gas. We're all doing some intervention measures, aren't we? We're all doing an intervention measure for each area. We're shutting down health care now, we're shutting down the gas, now we're shutting down whatever it is. Now the question is in these two years, not the minister's problem, he's doing his job best from his colleagues. The problem is that today we're saying there's no one in health, we're talking about the euro, there's no governor, they've raised their hands, right? They've raised their hands, only the CNB thinks they're going to get a position in the European Central Bank. That's all. Have you heard one piece of information? The government is trying as hard as to give certain incentives for the economy, each day pressures are on the government. Have you ever... I don't know what the governor is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He said I won't work anymore until the end of the year, he's watching there who's going to get a certain position, now what's in kunas, he'll have in euros and he said he already said I'm working towards the ECB, I'm not doing anything right. So we don't have monetary policy anymore, do we? We don't have monetary policy. And all the time he's going to do it again, and he's going to be able to comment on how to do the reform, it's very good, how to do the reform on the expenditure side, right? And here, I'm only sorry that we just gave in to all the teams, we say we need to raise the wages, we need, we need everything, right, we need to find anyone today who needs everything, okay? It's just a question of whether when the recession comes, that's what we're all afraid of, that's what Europe is afraid of, is, and that's why the minister here said we're giving everything to grow economically. This is the most important thing in this part, and this is the turning point that Europe does not know whether or not it will be able to achieve this growth. In six months, it doesn't have to mean that we're going to have this kind of policy, we don't have the slightest idea what it's going to look like when you have four times the inflation difference between Lithuania and France, four times, and France is on the stagnation line. We don't know if, and because what we say let's get ready now, there's no connection is going to be a budget, it's going to be measures, but let's at least put someone who wants to make some reforms in these two years, it won't be popular measures, the people will understand that if and when they come, and unfortunately they're good times, now they're unstable, every little bit more unstable, and all we have here is the Minister of Finance who defends all of this. This isn't his rebalancing at all. This is the rebalancing of his colleagues who aren't here today, who aren't here today. And he has to actually look for answers for all of them, it's a bad policy. It's a bad policy and that's why I say there's no governor, there's no other ministers, there's no one here today, and we're all talking here today, the finance minister is going to try to actually do some kind of acrobatics about getting gas, so he's going to work around health care, about anything, about rebuilding, etc. Yeah. And are we satisfied that structurally it doesn't work because it's big, bulky systems, it's not easy to run. It's not easy for a new economy minister either, he doesn't even know what he's gotten into what level of megaministry he's entered. So that's what we're trying to talk about today, not criticizing you, not criticizing you. rather than simply point to those things that unfortunately are ahead of us. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110129	You, too. Now it's Mr. Marin Lerotić from the IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110130	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers with co-workers and I agree with my colleague, I said so and we did, when the 2022 budget was presented, that it would really be good if nothing other resolute ministers were sitting here and listening to Minister Maric defend them, but also to hear everything we have from the opposition, but also from the ruling ministers we have to tell them. But they are gone, and clearly there will be none. And today we have a budget a lot earlier than we could have expected, so half a year ago. And it definitely doesn't need to be ignored because it says something about the current state of affairs. And unfortunately, we have an inflation rate in April which is over 9.6% and we have to be aware that in the coming months we will also have a further rise in prices and food, as well as household supplies. The state budget or, in this case, the budget rebalancing, with the financial document indisputable and the political document from which the government's policy is visible and the direction of the country's development is being implemented. And the direction of this government is as we have the opportunity to see a new rebalance and a new increase in debt. Like any time in the assembly, the state budget or budget rebalance is unfortunately always the same. Health money leaks like water from Zagreb pipelines. The budget rebalance shows an increase in the deficit by 4.3 billion, which at this point leads us to a final score of minus 13.6 billion kuna, and if we don't lie, it will be even more in the next one. This brings the health ministry's budget to 20 billion kuna, which is still not nearly the final state it was for 2021 when we pumped 38 billion kuna into health care. And that wouldn't be a problem if we solved the health problem, but we didn't, and the next month it's going to be 500 million kuna, that month after a billion kuna and so on from a circle to a circle. And no one from the Department of Health here is here to explain it to us and to explain why it doesn't offer reform, we heard something that they want to centralize the health system, and when we know that 80% of the debt is produced by state-owned hospitals better not even come here. So it's more than crystal clear to everyone that things in health care don't work out, and it's even more funny to repeat because our health situation is so bad that it looks picturesquely like the Titanic in the scene before the complete sinking, and what's worse is that the solutions obviously aren't there and it's no exaggeration but it really is. And instead of ruling something they do or at least trying to do the bullying press and that way we won't move forward. The ruling must understand that the opposition does not talk without reason about the unsustainable health system, that we do not advocate without reason the reform of the health system and not from yesterday but years ago, but because the water has come to the throat and if something urgent is not done, our citizens will feel all of this on their backs. And already as parrots, we repeat ourselves every time it comes to the health system, and we really don't know what else to say or make things change for the better. The ruling ones often say we got money from the EU for reforms, and there is no reform. Before I'm wrong, I've been talking about this phone booth for two weeks, and I'm going to do it again and again now, and that's that money from the EU won't fall from the sky, but it needs to be done very well and a lot of quality work, because if we want it to include good operationality and coordinated action. However, the situation is currently completely unsatisfactory and we can conclude that there is a trend in uncoordinated work and poor system functioning and ignoring the opportunities offered by EU funds. Because when we talk about the economy ministry, the new minister obviously has different priorities, so the reduced item for financing investment, industry, exports, innovation for more than 22 million kunas because what I've listed really shouldn't be a priority. It also reduces the item to encourage innovation development research, the reason or reduction of the full amount is set out in the item of the European Regional Development Fund. No European competition has been opened since operational plans have yet to be adopted. Like I said, the situation is getting better and better. Also operational programme Effective human potential was downloaded 77 million out of 100 as planned when this budget was adopted. And as I said before and here we see that we are terribly late in withdrawing European funds and that we are all going to find ourselves in big trouble together, and there are no responsible ones and, of course, there will be none. Everything's going according to plan. There are no signs of serious forms, and that's something that's really worrying. We think that we should still relieve entrepreneurs, reduce red tape, work on having a more efficient system within the judiciary and digitise the system of state administration to help entrepreneurs, but also to give greater transport to the production industry, to export industries, to make the Croatian economy stronger and better quality. As I said in the replica, state property should be put into operation, I said in the Muzil area which makes up a fifth of the entire area of the city of Pula where there is the possibility of investing more than a billion kuna, profiting from the concession, new employment, I also repeat putting state property into operation and all of this remains a state tomorrow together. It is in Croatia's interest and it is the only way that we can make progress as a country, be more competitive and stable. In short, these are some of our observations, but I think, or at least we hope to see in this budget, already, that some things are moving forward and that in the coming period we will be creating a more quality social economy because we believe that the crisis is exactly an opportunity, and in the situation when we have had GDP growth we have produced nothing, we have not made any reforms and no shifts have been visible, so we really hope that this crisis will force us to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110131	Thank you. Now it's the National Minority Club and Mr. Vladimir Bilek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110132	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Vice-President of the HS, the respected representative of the Ministry of Finance, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here's as real as we've seen through these replicas, but we also see every day around us that the economic financial situation in both the Republic of Croatia and the global agenda is a daily topic for all of us, but also for the government, for the representatives of the opposition, but also for the citizens because it changes daily and affects the quality of life for all of us. In fact, life is becoming more expensive, but the functioning of the state under these conditions is becoming more complex and, as we have witnessed, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been forced to take a number of measures. The measures taken to mitigate price growth, primarily energy, but also certain food products, through a reduction in value added tax, have also received some positive effects on citizens' lives, particularly those socially at risk. The development of global developments also assumes a further continuation of this trend, as well as an increase in the difficulties in the functioning of the economy, primarily through the prices of raw materials and prices, but also the available amounts of energy that are doing the situation around us and the security risks can be limited at some point. The consequences of Russia's aggression in Ukraine, a war whose end is not under surveillance at this time, will continue to have a negative impact on supply flows, flows of available goods and their price. The state will most likely have to take additional measures when it comes to gas supplies, to take charge of gas storage, as well as refurbishment of supply reserves. Here I would just like to say, today is the Minister of Economy in Grubišni Polje, where research at new underground gas storage facilities which should also ensure stability as regards the supply itself. In this package, of course, the costs are not negligible nor the cost of accepting and providing Ukrainian refugees who may not be present as in Poland or neighbouring Ukraine, but also come to us and care for them, and we care for them. Unfortunately, there have been no announced changes in the organisation and functioning of the health system, which have led to generation and accumulation of costs and debts according to major drugs that need to be resuscitated in a hasty manner in order to preserve the system, in order to enable citizens to receive adequate health care and, although the Croatian economy has quickly and strongly recovered from the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, epidemics and measures taken and supplies in the health care sector are still terriblely and heavily burdened by the state budget in the past year. In a good employer's manner, the government successfully completed negotiations with state and civil servants' unions in April on the basis of which 4% of the pay base has been increased since 1 May. Additional costs for the state budget are the indexation of pensions due to the growth of wages of the consumer price index, but there is, of course, concern for our pensioners, care for our citizens of the Republic of Croatia. All these indicators should also be taken into account the lack of labour. Croatia will be forced to introduce more foreign workers than we have ever had in order to maintain the necessary economic activity, primarily in tourism that represents each year. With the price of raw materials, the prices of work are growing dizzyly, both in our country and in the world. With labour shortages and labour imports, unfortunately, precisely because of the labour price, we are still recording and still in a small amount, the outflows of our people, primarily those who go after higher wages somewhere in the EU or globally in the world. In this light, we note the rise in inflationary pressures, in 2022, the acceleration of consumer price inflation to 7.8%, which will also contribute to food and oil prices. Here we have seen and heard a lot of things about inflation, but also many developed countries and those countries that can be said by the old EU countries, that have a much larger number than the larger two-digit number as regards the inflation index. Given all this that the budget could not bear, this rebalance increases budget revenues by 6.6 billion kuna and costs 10.9 billion kuna. The general government's budget is expected to record a deficit of 2.8% of GDP and the share of public debt in GDP will decrease by 3.6% compared to the year before and will be 76.% of GDP. The stability of this rebalancing with domestic sources will certainly contribute to the revenue expected from the accelerated withdrawal of the agreed EU funds. Reports of the annual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 but above all for the new financial period 2021-2027 as EU instruments of the new generation. Significant funds from the EU Solidarity Fund to finance the recovery of public infrastructure damaged by the earthquake in Zagreb and Banovina, which we lead to and through rebalancing are increasing these funds. We still have to leave the funds there and there are funds for implementing operational programmes, for building infrastructure from kindergartens, schools, dormitories, cultural and educational centres, but also all that generates in some way not only the quality and quality of the knowledge of our citizens but also the employment of our companies, and thus, generates certain growth and prevents a fall in greater return. So this is a necessary and reasonable rebalancing, it's justified and the National Minority Representatives' Club will support this rebalancing with strong support from the government to continue to monitor the use of budget money and the mitigation of the crisis that is being shed from the global framework to our country as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110133	You, too. Ms. Vesna Vucilović, Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereignists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110134	Thank you very much, dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Since we've combined these three points of the agenda, let me start from the last one. So first I'll say what's good. Because it's time to say a few words about this report last year that marked economic recovery, and it's mostly due to the good tourist season, but also, that year has marked a rise in the costs of the health system which, if judged by this rebalancing, have no intention of returning to those levels before the COVID epidemic 19. Now, since 2020 was marked by closing, banning activities, restrictions on all possible species, then it is logical to take the year 2019 for comparison and this 2020 as soon as possible, mostly the part of the struggle with the epidemic that was modelled in China, when we were among the countries that had the most restrictive measures. What I will point out as positive and is related to macroeconomic indicators is the growth of exports, construction works and industrial production, and these should be fundamental definitions and future ones if we want to reduce the dependence on tourism as an economic branch which has proved to be extremely sensitive to the crisis. What was growing all the time was the state consumption which, of course, is not good, and already last year, there was a rise in food prices and not only these products, but also raw materials and construction materials, which continued this year with greater intensity, and it is best seen at inflation rates. So for April of this year it was a record 9.4%, it continued to accelerate, and if we look at it most, it was influenced by the prices of transport and food. If we compare this with some other EU countries, then we are still standing well because there are over 20% inflation in Austria, Estonia over 30, but it is very worrying and with the announced growth of interest rates, it raises a number of questions, and it is related to the financing of this deficit that is growing in this rebalancing process. Now, if we're going to talk about who's ahead of us today, I have to start with a sentence that's just inevitable, and it says so. We told you. Thus, a number of representatives said when presenting the 2022 budget that the expenditure on the spending side was simply underestimated. You planned to cut them by 4 billion kuna this year, and now in this rebalancing, it's a health system that's no longer a recovery, although it's now become a regular phenomenon, so for hospitals and HZZO over 4 billion and 4.3 billion kuna, respectively. If we know how Minister Maric informed us that these costs are now no longer increasing 200, 300 million per month, but now suddenly they are growing 400, 500 million kuna per month, then we really need to ask ourselves what will happen by the end of this year, or maybe it is better not to ask. Let's pretend like nothing's happening, but it's happening and it's not good. Last year, six billion kunas were additionally spent more than planned. It's going to be hard this year. So last year we calculated that health care generates 200, 300 million kunas of that deficit every month this year is now 400, 500. So these 4.3 billion won't be enough if last year there was a six this year there can only be more. And in principle, it's not really a recovery anymore. It's a systematic cost increase that's increased in the pandemic, and there's obviously no going back now. And that's usually the main pain of public systems. Once costs, when expenditures rise to a higher level, very rarely it goes in that reverse direction, very rarely it goes back. So a certain level of cost has been achieved and the system wants to keep it. And regardless of the causes of this initial increase, which in this case was an epidemic of Covida-19 and after the cause disappeared, the virus did not disappear but here there is no plexiglas, we do not wear masks, we live more or less the same as before the epidemic, or we can say that the reduced cost impact remains at that higher level. So it was illusory to expect that health costs would decrease 4 billion kunas this year and we told you that. Less or less all the opposition MPs told you that when you adopted the budget. And that's one of the reasons why we didn't support that budget because it was unrealistic, and even now what you've brought is not real either. What we expected at the adoption of the budget was two rebalances this year. What we expected was an increase in revenues due to inflation that was already evident last year. Now, what we didn't expect was the rise in expenditures of nearly 11 billion kunas 9% compared to last year, 6% compared to the plan. And as a consequence of all that, a deficit of $13.7 billion and 2.8%, respectively. Now, taught by all this experience, we only have one question to ask ourselves. Is that a real number, is that a final number? What else is missing here? And there's not much to ask. The first thing that attracts attention is the amount envisaged to finance gas supply. We all know that the gas warehouse is empty and it is expected at the end of the heating season, but before leaving the government Minister Coric decided that if private PPD, INA, HEP, EON will not charge at these high gas prices underground warehouse around then the state will do so. That's what he left for us. Nice of him means there will be gas for next season's heating season, but to restore gas supplies, it takes 300m euros, which is more than 2 billion kuna, and this rebalance provides for only 75m kuna and 10m euros, respectively, amount not to be insignificant but definitely insufficient. Now, as these costs will be divided, probably between HEP and the state register remains to be seen, but if that cost was shown in this rebalancing process then the deficit would not be 2.8 but would be over 3% E now that we expect to enter the euro area, because we expect the European Commission's report at the end of 6 and at the beginning of 7 months was very convenient to ignore all this together, not to show the total amount because then Croatia would not meet two criteria for the introduction of the euro and that would already be a problem, and then what we will leave for the end, for that other rebalancing technically, and then we will show that because it will have to be shown somewhere, we will see whether it is just creative accounting that we are already used to meet the conditions for the introduction of the euro or not, we will find out in the fall, but we could already say that there is a little creative accounting. What we can claim with complete certainty right now is that the spending party is completely out of control, completely. A journalist just before asked me what could have been done as this has grown, so put it under control finally once. In the past term, reforms have not been implemented although there have been excellent conditions, macroeconomicly never better, now in the middle of the mandate in such complex circumstances expect this government seeking stability to make any reform illusory, even the greatest optimists I do not think expect absolutely any reform from this government now in the middle of the mandate. And the spending side is growing by nearly 11 billion, but it's interesting that in the media it's not talking about it, two hills are fighting, the president and the prime minister are having a little bit of public fun every day, but these 11 billion are obviously not interesting to anyone, it goes under the radar, so why don't the expenditures rise by 20, 30 or already how many billions if these 11 are completely irrelevant to the public and it's downgraded to a mere number. The only thing we can expect next time is even bigger figures on the spending side or maybe a few more exposés of Minister Maric with elevated tones when his throat is slightly recovered because he cannot discipline the users of the budget when it comes to spending. What is crucial, and this is how this increase in expenditure will affect the economy, the competitiveness of our companies, the responsibility, the standard of living and purchasing power, obviously the public is not too interested. In addition, we see that some world-wide topics are being imposed which, in such a unstable and crisis situation, the question is, in general, who is it appropriate to step up the division in society and what do the inhabitants of Croatia have in the first place, whether they will live better, whether they will have greater purchasing power, is absolutely certain that they will not. What, here's to not being all bad that's good at this rebalancing is this macroeconomic framework that's, let's say, made for real. Last time we overestimated GDP growth, and inflation was underestimated, so what we now have in our assessment is three times more than just a few months ago when the budget was adopted and compared to the World Bank, compared to the European Commission that came out here with its estimates you did this cautiously, here I have to say, I have to commend you, you went a little more carefully than this one was taught by experience, it's nice to learn this way in walking because here the European Commission estimated inflation to be 6.1%, the government has entered from 7.8, and the GDP growth is estimated at 3%, and the European Commission at 3.4. What these final figures will depend on, unfortunately again on tourism and again on the tourist season. We have not learned in the coronary crisis how fragile it is, how sensitive the economic branch is, and in such unstable geopolitical circumstances, absolutely all scenarios are possible, including those with negative effects. What I'm going to point out, and I'm not getting there, so I'm going to leave it for an individual debate, so the payer's attention is drawn to the profit tax item and the income is growing 10%, which in the nominal amount is 851 million kuna, and it's good for companies to do positive business and pay the profit tax, that's always good, but in times of crisis, in times of inflation we should take care of the socially most sensitive groups. People are complaining about the rising price of gas, the rise and price of wood, 500 kuna wood, so the Croatian forests are private or state-owned companies, why this must follow the price of gas and why Croatian forests must make extra profits in this situation. A little more social sensitivity not only at government level but also at the level of state and public enterprises in this situation is very important, they should not use the situation to increase their extra profits but also to help those most socially vulnerable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110135	You, too. Now it's the Club of Representatives of the Bridge, Mr. Troscott's first, and then he'll be succeeded by Mr. Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110136	Dear Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, and all those who follow us through the screen. What's the main message here is that the budget as such has been increased again by almost all items other than education, but the main question that is being raised for all of our citizens is whether, on the basis of the increase in the budget itself, will you really live better than that? So we have a situation that the war is spreading between Ukraine and Russia, we don't know what will happen to the pandemic in the autumn because certain pharmaceutical companies have announced that even last year's budget, which can't be achieved by selling even pulsed, cardiological, oncological medicines, which means that only the vaccines remain, we have that China is a semi-closed system now where several hundred ships are waiting in front of Shanghai, where demand for Chinese products is increasing, and then, accordingly, it means that we are going to increase all prices or more globally to the energy crisis and entry of Finland and Sweden, which, regardless of how someone thinks in this direction, geopolitically, geostrategicly, it means that we have certainly entered into a decade of unrest, disagreement with Russia, which will certainly affect energy or the same price, and within a short period, we can't replace energy and even energy development in an independent manner. As far as inflation itself is concerned, it would be good today if only the Ministry had done a calculation of what this inflation is and what is waiting for us and how we should finance it because we are waiting for it in the future. What the Mosta Club did was, we came up with some calculations, some 20 billion, depending on what inflation would be at the end of the year, and in what way? We take GDP, we take household spending is about 60% within that GDP, and then it's multiplied by the rate.../incomprehensible/... the expected rate of inflation and we get about 20 billion kuna that we'll have total damage to all households throughout Croatia. Now, the Mosta Club also has a potential solution, as Switzerland has done to finance Covid's debt. It is a similar situation, where Switzerland estimated that Covid would owe them some 30 billion Swiss francs, there are prices, only Swiss francs and Croatian kunas, and they said well, we have 11 to 13 years to pay off the debt that came from Covid in Switzerland. And how are we going to do that? Number one, we're going to get a profit from the Swiss National Bank and over the years we're going to pay that debt plus all those surpluses that we get from the budget, those reserves, we're going to be paying off, and in 11 to 13 years, one Switzerland is going to pay off the debt that came from Covid. Now, how we're going to pay it off when we don't even know how much it's worth or how much it's worth, that's what one big secret is about getting medical equipment that didn't even go through public procurement, let's remember what it looked like. And today we are just here because of the rebalancing of that same health care, where the minister is involved in a minimum of two affairs, about the purchase of medical equipment that is twice as expensive when taking a comparative offer from German producer Zeiss for the Sister of Mercy Hospital until the money has been paid to his friend, the paparazzi friend who followed him during the campaign, and we are here today to discuss the budget rebalancing due to corruption, at the end of the day, where we have corruption that some 70 billion kuna costs us yearly this corruption, where here's money to a girl as it was told here on the spending side. No one mentions, for example, only energy, HEP, the estimates are that 10% of HEP's income at the annual level is going to corruption or ignorance or infrastructure projects like the Water Centre on the Good in Lest where there are still dangers for our people to lose their lives or, say, a shameful example of Kosinj where the Kosinj field is going to sink, billions are involved, billions will disappear through it or, for example, those constant guesses to gas ends, the queens of renewable energy, kings who sell electricity from BiH, and the thermo power plant that burns to lignite, so the environment itself is further polluting, and on the other hand, it makes it impossible for people to move to energy transition themselves, to green economy and electricity production in an environmentally acceptable way, for example, the HEP as such brakes themselves to put solar panels on their own, and to 20 years in the next year. Why? For once again it is necessary to please the kings of gas, the kings of men who import oil from Arab countries, etc. So there's no protection for our little people, there's a problem. We're here to discuss again today some kind of health rebalancing that we've been waiting 30 years for some kind of reform. But the same, waiting lists are still growing, so health care doesn't have the right adequate service, and we're still increasing these costs today without having any efficiency in that matter. As far as the goods basket itself is concerned, there is the biggest problem because on our salary that does not grow, food grow, drink and tobacco that are quite used in Croatia. And now that this compares to greater spending because our budgets spend much more of these basic supplies than the EU actually uses, we are having problems, we are experiencing a particularly serious situation in the fall that people may actually be left without food. We didn't solve the problem energyically, the question of where it's going to come from because we replaced one gas addiction with another. HEP as such prevents people from becoming energy independent. There is a directive from the EU that requires that we say someone who puts solar panels have the right to a zero VAT rate. I don't see that it's the Ministry of Finance as such and it's really going, that it can help people, and with the social transfers that we sent, we did help some people with 200 kuna in the short term, but the people of several thousand kunas have increased their costs. So just remember the governor of the CNB who said that 8300 kuna is not much. Well, it's not for you who's got a master's kitchen, where you're better off eating than the Habsburg monarchy. But there are people who survive with several hundred kunas, and they've now increased costs that can't be controlled. We really got into a serious situation. And even now, it is all about political will to enter the euro area where we are in the fourth position ahead of us are only the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Slovakia and the Baltic countries ahead. And we're pushing for entry into the euro zone on totally insecure ground entering the euro zone and no one knows how it's going to end. That's where I'd stop now, so here's Miro for you, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110137	Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110138	Thank you. I'm sorry that he's not a minister here, because so much sleekness and perversion in government decisions mostly when they say here's the energy that 10% has collected to citizens only that's not a lie. She insults every man, Croatian citizen, peasants. I'll tell you a few examples. I'm from local politics, I'm here and I'm here all the time with these people, with that poor girl. Here's an example, you're the best in Europe for the least amount of energy in this crisis after the covid of terror, after the covid dictatorship, you've created chaos, you've accepted the game. Okay. Is it normal for you to collect 500 percent of the currents in mountainous and mountainous areas for local water pipelines? 500 percent. For example, the Cetina region water line, and so all the water lines, only the mayors can't say that because they're probably tied up by a party, 500 percent. What does that mean? That the current that pumps water to certain heights that you can get households, that means with 2 and a half million kuna, an example of the water line of the Cetina region last year, this year is HEP, Croatia's HEP is 10 and a half million kuna. Well, we'll just figure it out. In order for my colleague Troscott to tell me about the poor, I, as a responsible person, will order the water manager, although I am not the majority owner of 47% to pay you exactly as much as last year was electricity. It was 170,000 kuna, and this month, 900,000 kuna came in. For what? Because the government of Andrej Plenkovic is not like collected water, he did not collect electricity, so he will gather the local leaders. No, I won't! I won't! But you come in here and cut the water, and we'll pay for it last year, turn off the electricity, so some parts of Split don't have water, and only the water goes downhill will come. And it's even more embarrassing that HEP boasting about sponsorship, which is doing harmful projects. Our HEP must guard it, which has the most severance-sponsored severance di does not arrive, mainly its party members from HDZ. This same HEP is making chaos among these people, among the people, and now we mayors would trim to collect electricity 500%, five times to our citizens in rural areas. Mountain-mounted areas require more electricity for the pumps to raise water. Here I am giving the other mayors of HDZ a simple solution. Pay the wars like last year, instead of 100,000 kunas this year demand a million, you pay 100 as last year every war. And come you turn off Andrej Plenkovic, bring him to Sinjska Alka, I'll say di is true, I'll take him red wallpaper off the water, electricity. HEP Croatian HEP. For example, in the Cetina region 40% of Cetina gives hydropower to the Republic of Croatia. What did you bring back to Dalmatino Zagora? What did you bring back to face? Slavonia? What are you bringing back to that people? Except you're hitting the calf operators at the Misetic family. I see now some reported from the Homeland Movement, never mentioned, and I'm glad they accept. The Misetic family leads, here leads the meaning of Andrej Plenkovic because the president was in HDZ, well now he can, now it's acceptable. And I agree, it's written, so I agree, and that's good. From 8 kuna to 2 kuna and 40, from 8 kuna to 2 and 40 in favour of tele-op operator to damage unit local self-government. And I'm glad my colleagues are joining me. I've given this law three times. No one's ever raised a hand for him, at least no one, no one. So three years ago, there was a Law on the Right of Service and now it's in the process and I expect the President, mostly, to put that item under discussion. And also from the chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government, that after three years to push it here so that we have 3 euros per metre in Slovenia, the T-Com that Mudrinic handed over to the hand he handed over, i.e. HDZ started, SDP finished. So what do we have now? Should we forgive them for that money too? So how much did you reduce your income if you gave them 3 euros per metre, instead of proposing 2 kunas and 40. Or you're not the only ones who are all glad that they are now HAKOM brothers and sisters, the brother of this minister, that they are now that regulation that HaKOM has brought forward that the problem has been solved. No, they're telling you, the law is in the process where the telephony operators will be reduced, reduce the cost of the right path to harm local self-government, to the harm of local self-government. Teleopers are the biggest winners in the Republic of Croatia 42%. In the EU, a maximum of 20%. I first mentioned teleoperators when I entered the assembly here, for the first time, you know what was the cover of all teleoperators, all of whom we have in Croatia and this monopolist Tcom who is not Croatian because HT, the title was Bulja not to return us to the stone house, age. No, we're not asking him to bring us back to the Stone Age. God forbid, let them behave like they do where the states come from. Not to terrorize the Croatian people, and you allowed them to. Why? Because Misetic Dynasty affects Plenkovic so much And on you, especially HDZ, that you must not [[Intruder: Time.]] You're welcome to give me a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110139	Mr. Damir Bakic will represent the views of the green-left bloc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110140	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished representative of the ministry, good afternoon. First of all, two principled remarks on the positive side first, it is indeed a significantly greater availability of all data and review when looking for information and in this respect the ministry deserves praise. On the other hand, and this time we have missed, and we have also asked for this when the budget for 2022 was adopted, there has been a lack of review of all the projects and activities financed from the Solidarity Fund. So from the source 5761 5762. This is especially necessary now that the deadline for using these funds is extended which we did not know at the time of the adoption of the budget. The truth of such an obligation does not exist and technically speaking is not about the failure, but the situation is extraordinary and such a review would be useful otherwise, especially because there are confusing positions in post-traumatic renewal jobs which I will say a little more about later. In any case, such a complete review would help to look at the overall, overall picture of the intensity and dynamics of the renovations both in Banija and Zagreb. Compared to the original plan, total revenues increased by 6.5 billion, total expenditure by 10.9 billion. And now the deficit under this rebalance proposal is 13 billion and 700 million kuna. Compared to the original plan, the deficit thus increased by 4.4 billion. About as much for as much as the receipts have been increased. In other words, the increased deficit is covered by increased borrowing. On the other hand, these 13.7 billion deficits account for 2.9% of the projected GDP, with a deficit of only 2.1% of the projected GDP in the original budget. So we have almost 40% increase in the deficit expressed in the share of GDP, and this is probably the most spectacular and worrying data compared to this rebalance with the adopted budget. It is, of course, fair to say, part of the reason lies in our own decisions that are not related to global financial and geopolitical crises, which are reducing the VAT rate to some goods and services and that is, of course, a recent increase in the pay base for state and public officials. In the program section, as usual, the most controversial in health care. And now only half a year later, and that's already said enough in replicas, but I can't say again, after only half a year we have a new radical turn in fact step back. The funds for the rehabilitation of health institutions are increasing by 2 billion HZZO transfers by a billion and a half, de facto annihilated step taken in the adoption of the budget. And then it was very strongly highlighted and highlighted in the very reason that these funds were then reduced by 4 billion kuna. This is also reflected in the overall budget of the Ministry of Health because it is in '21. is both in the plan and in the execution of 22 and a half billion. Then we're in the original budget for 2022 planned at just 16.1 billion, now we're raising it to almost 20 and a half again. Now, whether it's a rectified delusion or a disenfranchisement in the state of health, we don't have the answers yet, but we will remind everyone, but absolutely all of the opposition were skeptical of the sustainability of such a strongly reduced budget of the Ministry of Health. Of course, the essence of the problem is already said today and the key solution is not in the Ministry of Finance but in the Ministry of Health. The renovation, as already said, is missing a full overview of all plans and projects or planned costs, and of course the change is expected. In the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction, State Property in Public Purpose Reconstruction Activities, the amount was raised from 5 to 9.5 billion, the funds from the Solidarity Fund, and in the same ministry, the damage caused by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and the surrounding area was reduced from 1.2 billion to only 1 billion, down from more than 11%. Similarly to the Ministry of Health, the capital project to restore the health institutions damaged in the earthquake was originally zeroed in order to now be raised to 140 million parts from the NPO, part of the Solidarity Fund. Then this in the Ministry of Science and Education capital project reconstruction and infrastructures and equipment in the area of earthquake-damaged education increased from 572 to 605 million, then the capital project almost the same name grew from zero to 107 million just being about other sources, once it was the Fund of Solidarity of the earthquakes March, second time it was the Fund of Solidarity of the earthquake December, at the same time the same ministry. The capital project again almost with the same name just as it is about higher education institutions has fallen from a million, a billion and 184 million to just 735, which is only 40% of the plan, the source here is also the Solidarity Fund, so there is definitely a need for explanations and a full review. And finally a few more separate things. The first thing we said was, I asked the minister in the replica to his presentation, and I expressed concern that the funds intended for the transfer, the transfer from the state budget to HZMO for the amount of 19.1 billion kuna will not be enough to pay the pensions because pensions in the second part of the year will increase significantly, with the next significant increase in the cost of life. This may be the moment to remind me of something else, often mentioned, for example recently mentioned by the newly appointed minister and today it was mentioned, often mentioning the efforts made by HDZ ministers and the HDZ government to increase pensions. I would, however, like to say that an increase in pensions is something which is therefore regulated by law and is extremely strict and extremely precise. The law provides for a half-yearly pension adjustment at a rate that is the weight average of the wage growth rate and the cost of life growth rate in the previous half-year, there is no good will of the HDZ, it is simply something the law requires. Speaking of pensions, I'd like to point out something else. We have this ongoing project called improving the pension system through an increase in the adequateness of pensions, that sounds nice, the project is funded by a 14 million kuna NPOO. What's that? Here's a quote: it's about making professional studies on the viability of investment of compulsory pension funds in state-owned companies where privatisation is launched or planned by independent experts, and for the sake of greater inclusion of pension funds in investment projects. I have to express no multiple but multiple skepticism about it. I don't see any real basis for such a thing, I don't believe in the reality of this proclaimed goal, and I especially don't believe in the 14 million kuna cost for these studies, in the 14 million kuna cost this year and the planned 14 million kuna cost in budget projections for 2023. Two, and that's not news, but I want to point that out one more time. In the Ministry of Defence we have on activities called Administrative Support to the University of Defence and Security amounting to 24 million kuna and something more. For '23. As many as 74 million kunas have been planned in this position, for administrative support to the University of Defence and Security. In the law establishing this unnecessary university, it said that no additional funding is necessary for the implementation of this law in the state budget. That's exactly what Minister Banozic said repeatedly here in the assembly, defending the law, so I remind you this year 24 million, next year 74. Thirdly, it is unusually important in the Ministry of Science and Education we have an activity called Assistants in continuing for children with developmental difficulties raised from 26 million to 29, however, it is neither close enough nor close enough since at the end of this school year they stop touching funds for this purpose from the European Social Fund. The minister answered our questions and verbally and in writing promised a solution to this problem, promised to take care of the funding of the assistants in the follow-up for the next school year, we do not see it in this budget or in this rebalancing. Fourthly, let's go again to praise something, in section 0.20 The government of the Republic of Croatia welcomes the increase in activity, the amount of support to combating hate crimes, we welcome the increase in the amount of national protection and the promotion of human rights and the suppression of discrimination from 113 to 345 thousand, let alone thousands if they are not already millions, but we are glad to see and welcome the increase of these funds. Lastly, in the Ministry of Finance to the activities of A818068 called Contribution of the Republic of Croatia to the EU budget on the basis of unrecycled plastic packaging waste, we have an increase of as much as 150 million kuna, and now it is even, it is now as much as 20% more than we had in that position in 2021. This should not be so and this is about serious failure or the least said about inaction because it is a lot of money we could use on many sides for useful purposes, so we plan to pay it in this budget rebalancing as a penalty in the EU budget for not taking care of plastic waste. And finally lastly, this is not up to the budget, as has been said many times today, in reality here are representatives of the Ministry of Finance, and actually, in fact, this budget rebalancing is very much a matter of more importance to some other resolutions and it would be much more important that there are some other ministers here who should explain the increase or non-increase of many positions in their portfolios. I'll do something about the Ministry of Science and Education, or his inaction. So once again, this is not up to the budget itself, but to the extreme concern, I would say even to the ignoring of which the Ministry of Science and Education towards accurate education. In the National Development Strategy and in the NPOO, we planned, or declared, the highly set goals for raising the general mathematical and natural literacy of our students, but we did absolutely nothing to ensure the key element for achieving these goals, which is to address the difficult and rapidly growing lack of qualified mathematics and natural science teachers. It was also discussed at a thematic session of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture here in the Assembly almost a year ago. Conclusions have also been reached with proposals for concrete measures. The Ministry of Science and Education does literally nothing to reaffirm these professions and support the education of new generations of mathematics and science teachers, which is deeply devastating, not only because the money from the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism is available but also because we should do it for ourselves. There is no excuse for inaction in that sense, and even if we had already attached it yesterday, we would have seen or felt the first results in 5 or 10 years. Maybe later. And until then, even if we had started something, and at that time, as long as there was such trouble and much longer, we would have been, and like this we would be sentenced to a free fall.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110141	Thank you. Thank you. Now the Centre and Voice Representatives Club will represent Mrs. GLAS first. You're dark and you're Tarritating and then Mrs. It's a pulac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110142	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. In 2006, the difference between health system expenditure and income from contributions was just one billion kuna. At that time, in the pension system, the difference between income and paid pensions was already 12 billion kuna. To date, the pension system in the government budget deficit is always somewhere at around 4% of GDP. The health system is unfortunately going the best way to get close. And now, we can't do that anymore. So in the year of Covid, when there were fewer medical procedures, we grew significantly the cost of drugs, including very expensive, and the main issue is where money comes from for wholesalers. So the next step has to be reform, something the Ministry of Health will suggest, if this kind of dynamic remains, we're in the same place for a year and we haven't done anything. This is not my word. These are the words of the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Marić, at the meeting of the Assembly Committee on Health a little over a year ago, 16 April 2021. And say what? He was absolutely right, which is why I decided to quote him. The problem is that unfortunately it's good and he predicted that things would go further, so in the meantime, really, it's been a year and indeed, health care is on the same page and nothing's been done. Nothing. My colleagues and colleagues, nothing. Not that there was no reform, no reform idea presented itself to the public. Nothing. This health care system of ours is in a tragic state, money in unreasonable quantities leaks everywhere, and it's already obvious to everyone. The service citizens are getting is getting worse, and less and less we have public health, and more and more we are being referred to very expensive private. The organization at Ministry and Government level is nothing. So let's not forget, in the end, that we're still a country with very few vaccinations, and very many dead from the crown, and hundreds of thousands of doses of vaccines we've donated or destroyed, about the calls of conscience that I'm not talking at all. About the fact that the state doesn't know at all or doesn't want to know how many summons there are in hospitals. It is only now that Minister Beros has called the hospitals to provide him with information on how many doctors, gynecologists, anesthesiologists, nurses are in the call of conscience. Not because he's called to his senses and not because he's now said, my people, so there's a problem in health, things don't work, but because he's got a parliamentary inquiry, so I've asked, Minister, let's see what's going on. That's why he called to his senses, not because he thought something had to be done. That or why even now mention the protests that have been these days, but to mention thousands and thousands of people who are stuck with this failing system. Because they don't have a private clinic because they don't have a relationship, they don't have the telephone number of Minister Beros, or they haven't been lucky enough to run into a doctor or a nurse who, despite everything, is still professionally and committed to doing their job. And then we're exactly where we are. No reform. No procedures, no ideas. Rebalancing again and seeing miracles, he's leaving for health care again. The same story you've been telling for years. But, dear ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ, you boast that you have the longest-ever prime minister and the longest-ever government in Croatia's history. Well, then it's a shame that at the time you didn't, or at least not a single reform, you spent a team bigger for you. I'm not surprised that in our health care system, money leaks everywhere. We've seen how the minister behaves. The employees of his friend’s company work 112 hours a day, or 112 hours a day, paid the citizens as well as millions for a covid app they stole from the Internet and never worked. And it's this latest story with an intra-operial radiation device for the KBC Sisters of Mercy. Two devices were paid, one came. Where's the other respected Mr. Minister? Of course if we do everything according to model pay two, you get one health care run into bankruptcy. Otherwise, I have given 4 amendments to the budget for this year, which amounted to just 20 million kuna and covered the purchase of these intra-operative radiotherapy devices for 4 KBCs that do not yet have Zagreb, Osijek, Split and Rijeka. 20 million for four devices, of course you refused the amendments. And look at the wonders of my colleague Beros gets one for 11 million, good success. And now I'm asking you all together if that's how we can work and how our country can function? To be fair, one part of the rebalancing is the direct consequence of a combination of instability caused by the pandemic of covid and Putin's aggression in Ukraine. Unfortunately, we don't have much choice here. We must try to maintain things as much as possible in normal, especially because inflation is not in favour of our ambition to join the euro zone. A particular problem is energy and their price. The gas warehouse around for security-technical reasons takes 3 months to fill up, which means that for the winter season it should start filling very soon. I'd say in a month, two at most. I think at the end of the day the country will be forced to intervene as much as we do not appreciate it. In this respect, I am underprivileged funds to secure a 10m-euro gas supply as provided for in this rebalance. But there's something that's quite certain, which is that in a few months we'll see the rebalancing debate again and because of international circumstances that we can't influence. But there's something we can influence, these are our domestic unresolved problems. And the basic unresolved problem is Croatian health care. And that's why I'm asking Prime Minister Plenkovic and Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Beros for how long? How long without reform? Until when from rebalance to rebalance due to health problems because no matter how much you open a large niche with health care, no matter how much money you secure never enough. Of course we at the CENTR and GLAS club have this rebalancing as we have not supported the budget absolutely cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110143	Thank you very much. Mrs. Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110144	Here's a thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as one analyst said the other day, says even 11 billion kuna is not what it used to be. So the government is proposing a budget rebalance for 2022, which is nearly $11 billion for 10.9 billion, so it's almost $11 billion bigger than the original budget expenditure plan, and I'd say no one should blink. So in public, you don't have any big discussions about it, no debate. I don't think even a single Open, the Open didn't even organize on the subject of rebalancing as if no one was excited about these numbers. So here we have on one side an increase in expected revenue by 6.6 billion kuna. In some ways it may not be a surprise, however, the surprise is the increase in planned expenditures by 10.9 billion and 9%, respectively, compared to 2021 and 6% compared to the plan. Now that we're looking at the biggest expenditure increase where it's been, it's already been heard several times from this pay phone, so according to public functions, it's about 3 and a half billion dollars for health care, 1.8 billion for pensions, 1 and a half billion for the indirect consequences of the war in Ukraine, an increase in the defense ministry's budget, better filling up the stock reserves, taking care of exiles. 550 million kunas increase the cost of employees and the rest of those billions to some of the ten smaller items. When you read this, so there's a table in this one that's on top, there's actually no more. We can, and we're already here, and a lot of our colleagues have been talking, so we're just gonna talk about an increase in health expenditure. Once again, we have growth in health expenditures that some call recovery, but it's not any recovery, it's simply donations of new billions into a bottomless hole. Last year, 6.4 billion kuna was added to health care. These were therefore additional unplanned funds allocated in 2021 for the settlement of part of the debt of hospital health institutions for medicinal products, as well as auxiliary and sanitary material. Let us remember the already famous session of the Health Committee he participated in and Minister Maric, not knowing that the session is being recorded, transmitted and yelled at the health minister that this can't happen anymore. But apparently he can. I'm asking here's a respected minister who's not here, I asked him here in the replica how long can he do that? When they're going to say finally enough is enough. Here's what I offered him, and I donate that one T-shirt so that he can come to the government's meetings, to meetings with ministers, because apparently no one listens to him. What's the special problem here, though? So, it's not just a problem that we're going to shut up the new billion in health care, but the problem is that after this many donations actually prevails here's how the law of inert or the law of video games says again when you get to one level of a new level, a new plateau when you reach that level with those heights is no longer back. Once we've dried up it's now bezlain and that's now the basis from which we pour the money away. I will call again, and I often mention when budgets and budget rebalancing are the Commission for Fiscal Policy, which has been repeating one and the same remark for many years, and these are uncontrollable increases in health expenditure, primarily debts and obligations of hospitals and pharmacies towards suppliers. It is particularly worrying that the health sector generates a new debt between 400 and 500 million kuna per month. In addition, the coronary pandemic of the virus has not yet been completed and the potential for a new wave of one of the coronal strains carries the risk of an additional increase in health costs. Furthermore, I quote this all, so I quote, the commission proposes to the government to evaluate previous and current activities in the health sector in order to determine their affairs fiscal effects on the development of the economy. The Commission considers it necessary and necessary to assess the future risks of budgetary expenditure, in particular given the growing debt of the health system, as well as the public sector wage system and the significant potential liabilities related to the business of local public companies. So here we have a Commission on fiscal policy, which neatly here gives its recommendations, neatly, again year after year, stressing the need to undertake reforms that would limit the growth of expenditure on health, pensions and compensation for employees. So, one ear came in, the other came out. We need reforms on all fronts, so I agree with colleagues who said earlier that money from the EU will not come forever. So, this little bank of pigs, to put it that way, we won't be able to use that refund money forever. The economic stagnation of Croatia will continue after this crisis, pandemics and wars if they do not start to solve how we like to call them structural problems. So the public sector is not shrinking, it is not reforming, it has remained among the worst in the EU. Political personneling in state-owned companies is also continuing. The reforms of the judiciary are gone, no longer mentioned. Reduce parafiscal burdens on entrepreneurs so they can breathe, create new values if there is no such thing. Bringing order into state property. Reforming local and regional self-government, reducing the number of cities and municipalities, the county is just a dream that we occasionally mention from this pay phone. And I'm going to have a few details here as much as time allows. One detail, the protection of the coastal area, to see how many years we use to protect the coastal area in view of the great problems with maritime good. 245,000 kuna. And one particular question, and I'll leave it here to Mr. Secretary, when the minister is gone, the question and the answer of the Minister of Economy to my representative's question about the particular problem of resuscitating the slag in the factory, the former factory of Dalmatia Dugi Rat. So, in the amendment to the budget, I asked that 15 million kuna be reserved for the recovery, Minister Coric of 10.3.'22. He promised the ministry would start the recovery, but we don't see any sign of it here in the rebalancing process. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110145	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Damir Bajs' turn, in front of the counsel club, thank you, Representative Focus and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110146	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, allow me to refer on behalf of Club Focus and independent representatives to the proposal for amendments and addition of the state budget for 2022. I will stress that it is the result of the economic situation that is happening in Europe and also in the world, meaning that the economy is falling and inflation is growing. And speaking of inflation, then I'm going to point out that that's what I said to the minister, part of the economists think that inflation is a friend to the state budget, to the local budgets, to the parafiscal burdens, and to the enemy to the living standard of today's population and of course to the economy. What am I saying that for? Because by wanting to, not wanting to prove it, this budget, that proves the explanation that he's writing here. In fact, it grows by 11 billion kuna, which is logical if we know that inflation increased by 5.7% in January to already 9.1%) in April. This means that the same volume of goods simply increases the revenues of all the budgets. But of course we need to watch what we do with these funds, where these 11 billion kunas go? At the moment, most EU prime ministers have come out with a proposal for new measures precisely for the situation. They are aimed at the population and the preservation of living standards, and on the other hand, of course, the economy. In these 11 billion kunas in expenditure, we don't see it anywhere. In fact, it is quite evident that the only funds that are intended for the population at all are the payment of that package that was before the Ukrainian war before this situation happened to us. And according to the economy, no measures are foreseen. Let's just say the minister, but everyone else was quite clear about it. We'll just see what we can do if there's a situation like this. But let's do a little math now. If inflation is about 10 per cent, and this 9.1 in April there is an indication and the growth, for example, of pensions is 2%. And if this becomes as planned for the next two years, as the European Union and the Commission have finally indicated, this means that, in this case, the euro or a thousand euros will be worth seven hundred euros in purchasing power. And the citizens will get a raise that goes a long way for what inflation really is. Whether it's going to be 2% times three, six percent, whether it's going to be 4% for civil servants this year, so we're going to put 12 percent. Mostly when we narrow it down to basic mathematical operations, 30% will be a lower value of money, and wages will be 12% higher. In one quarter, purchasing power will almost be reduced in three years. That's something we have to work on. By this we also mean the Croatian Parliament, but especially the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Are there measures for this other than those indicated? Apparently there are. They are presented in a number of countries both the EU and the world, but should be implemented. These changes and budget additions turn out that the Republic of Croatia is not planning anything for the time being. Will they plan to see that? It will be too late and it will be too late to change the trends ahead. And when we talk about the fact that they're talking about supporting the economy. And why is that? We're with last year's I have to say very good, even excellent nearly 10% increased from gross national income. In this year, there was a 2.3% plan. But looking at what is now happening there is a huge slowdown in private investment and private initiatives. There's a danger of us getting into a situation where GDP starts falling. And I think at a time when a good part of the economy has special problems that it needs to be taken care of. Namely, as with the citizens where the price is actually not important oil started from 10 to 17 kuna or, for example, anything else when you enter not only the food part, but the non-food part where you buy anything. This is also true for the economy, so the prices of repromation in agriculture are almost doubled. This will also be seen at prices when they sell, but part of the economy when I talk about agriculture, for example, livestock is in a difficult situation and are planning a reduction. It's quite clear, the farms are being closed, the production is closing, so from chickens to chickens to livestock in full. There's just no financial results. And that's what we have to pay attention to. Our autocarers in these fuel prices, not solving their rights, are also in trouble. Of course, what is yet to come should not be ignored. That's what the minister indicated and I think he was right, and that's an increase in interest that will be interest on citizens' loans but also on businessmen. But not those interest rates that you get when you put money on the bill if you have them. You know that this is exactly what will lead to lower demand after that in one good sector and construction, but also investment in the economy. We do not see any measures on this issue, and we do not just touch the situation that a part of our companies is even the Russian market, and even Ukrainianly, it was not our dominant and most important, but it was not insignificant that they were dealing with the Russian market where the state in other EU member states has already jumped in and helped them. There's no indication of any activity at this point, so for me, it's not just the part about income that matters. It is clear that this inflation has led to higher revenues despite lower VAT rates. This means that it is paid at higher prices and that it is ultimately spent and more. But we don't see that we're getting ready for what's just coming, which is a further increase in inflation, a reduction in living standards and, of course, perhaps the most important economies. Because everyone would be worried if the economic growth projection fell from seven and a half to two and a half, and it still decreased. Of course, we can expect miracles. I know that tourism will do everything in its power to help Croatia. Almost a fifth of GDP goes through tourism, but we should not rely on it, because it is not a sign that tourism is strong but is only proof that the rest of the Croatian economy is weak. And that's actually a fact. Will those funds that come in help? It might, but in September when we get here and there's going to be a budget rebalance again, we're going to see if we're going to have a situation like this that we're actually seeing from afar. As a clear Ministry of Finance, I'm sure the Minister knows that, but I'm sure our fellow citizens do, too, but I have to tell the businessmen. And when I talk about the expenditure part that is in the budget, I won't repeat myself too much, but it's clear that healthcare will still be in trouble, that the reform is gone and that even without a crown, health spending a lot more than was predicted. I must, of course, suggest that we certainly need to address the issue of defence and therefore obtaining appropriate systems for anti-aircraft activities that we obviously didn't have. We need to help our friends from Ukraine who are now in Croatia, but this cannot be a taste of the totality of this budget while other countries have completely different and clearer goals regarding what is yet to come. So when we talk about this, of course, we can't support this kind of change and the addition of the budget. I will also point out that I have given the amendment once again to this case and our local story and policy, which means that the equipment of the General Hospital of Bjelovar for the second time will be accepted, I believe it may be, but it is also much more likely that it will not be in this, at this moment and in the budget there are therefore support for KBCs, according to the KBOs, according to a series of general hospitals and of course it should be helped and perhaps the hospital in Mostar, but it should not forget the support for hospitals owned by the county in the area of Croatia. The last time the secretary of state responded to my proposal said that that's how, we gave money to Mostar, we gave money to someone else, but unfortunately we can't help you now, we might get another answer this time. Accordingly, here it is, I will finish my presentation and what I pointed out at the outset we expect not only from the Ministry of Finance, the ministry is carrying out activities, but from the government headed by the prime minister to, as well as other states, come out clearly with a plan according to what is now happening, according to inflation growth, falling standards, falling economies, and that measures that are not measures before the Ukrainian crisis, but measures that are currently being applied, that is what everyone in the EU is doing, we expect to do so in the Republic as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110147	You, too. Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic will represent the Social Democrats Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. If I had to describe this budget with a single folk saying then I would say late Queen Marko to Kosovo Field arrives, and the road to Kosovo Field pays for whoever, the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia, you, me, Grandma Zdenko of whom I bought strawberries in Dolca this morning. Unfortunately, that's the way it is, why? And the time and money of taxpayers would have saved us that, if the government had listened to us seven months ago when we discussed this budget because it wasn't about expenditures that weren't predictable, it wasn't about adapting the budget to the new situation in the world, and we can talk about war and supply chains that weren't who they were anymore, no, it's about pure stubbornness, unideabilities and not having visions of a government that wasn't able to predict certain things that were highly predictable and that we were already warned about. So, as has been said so far that I am not repeating myself, but in one part I have to repeat myself, most of this budget is related to health care and this health system that was not burdened with covid or still is, but this rebalancing is not because of the covid, but because of the fact that the reforms are missing. Our health system hasn't improved, it hasn't reformed, there's nothing that would guarantee some savings or at least make the system more efficient, but we're over-supplying again, I'd say from hollow to empty, we're filling the hole that we know, that we're going to swallow everything again, and that we're going to have to recharge it again, and that's again as I said because of my lack of vision, and because of the fact that the ruling didn't want to respect some of the things that the opposition suggested, or which we could very easily have predicted. Because at the end of the day it seems that the Ministry of Health appears to be mud, setting up a tender for photographers and florists, and the health care is falling apart like Putin's gold, disappearing, taking off, and underneath, it's only what's what health care and what it really is, and that's one big and ultimately inefficient system that doesn't guarantee patients that they'll get the care they deserve, when and how much they deserve it, and they pay it expensive and we pay it expensive and we're doing rebalans for it. Unfortunately, this rebalancing has not offered any of what we would expect from rebalancing, and that would be amortizing the emerging geopolitical situation, that would be amortizing the accumulation, that would be amortizing the disturbances in supply chains, that would actually be a relief to our citizens of the emerging energy-gathering situation, which then brings general inflation behind them, it's missing, it's not, it's just that in this rebalancing, there's just as I said patching holes that won't serve anyone at the end of the day. And what we were actually expecting from the government was a much more determined position in the fight against attacks against the standard of Croatian citizens who have fallen behind again. We cut taxes, did it get results, as many times as it has not, not only this government let's be honest with each other there were governments who did this before, but again we warned from this speaker that it would not give the results we expect because it happened that either traders increased their margins or they remained the same, but for the final consumers, nothing changed. And what really worries is the idealessness of this government when it comes to amortizing these strikes because another blow is waiting for us, which I fear is constantly ignoring and minorizing, which is the introduction of a euro that is definitely going to generate additional inflation, has done so in all the economies that have introduced it before in all the countries, has led to some addition of the smaller or larger now we can talk about it in ways that it has been implemented, but the fact is that the collection will come. And if we add war to that in Ukraine, if we add covid to the crisis, and now the introduction of the euro, that means a repeated additional and continuous blow to the standard of citizens, and I'm afraid that the income side of our citizens is changing very little because I'm sure that when we recalculate kunas into euros, or wages, it's certainly not. If you're watching and how much energy our entrepreneurs pay, but then the households, you'll see that we certainly don't have some happy times, at least while this is the situation. And it is commendable that in some way this blow tries to amortize at least craftsmen, small craftsmen who can finally pay energy as a household because I'm sure that a hairdresser who works alone or one carpenter who works alone has really no reason to pay for energy like industry or entrepreneurship because as much as he or she can spend, it's really not some load on the network. But that's what I'm saying, at the end of the day, it's not enough. Our already-started economy, which is under the grip of various pressures, and thank God, there are them, and now through this war, simply this kind of budget rebalance, these kind of government measures, this lack, the long-term view of vision will do nothing good. And that's why I'm already light and tired of being a bad prophet here. And why is that? I'll tell you the same thing. Often by ruling, we are accused, so I don't know, maybe my colleague, Peovic, who is after me, will accuse us of only being able to criticise us, and we don't know anything constructively, that the opposition can't be heard, that what needs to be heard, or what it should be, but not and what it does. But what's tragedy, colleagues and colleagues, and it's actually part of one of our political unculture is when the opposition suggests something, that it's not respected because it's proposed by the opposition. And it's not a problem, so let it be a proposal and rulings in the end, but I'm afraid it often doesn't reach that level. For example, for example, my colleague Romana Nikolic and I criticised this very vocally here, the law on preschool institutions, i.e. preschool education, and we tried to transfer it to a local level, i.e. we tried to indicate what shortcomings were at local level. And here, just for your information, as well as information from the Croatian public, the town of Osijek is the only one of four major cities that does not co-finance the accommodation of children in private kindergartens and protection crafts. Not because we want to encourage private kindergartens, but because there is no place in city kindergartens. 5,000 children a year stay out of preschool, not because they won't, but because there isn't room. And then one of the four largest cities doesn't do it, or it doesn't help parents to price them, if they already have to give a child to a private kindergarten or a storage craft is about the same as those who can do it in city institutions. We're talking demographics. We had an example of a mother who came to Osijek with her husband and child, so they moved to Osijek, they didn't have a grandmother's service at the hall, they had no choice, they didn't have anyone to leave the child, the child couldn't get a kindergarten because at the time the mother didn't work, when she got the job, it was too late, the enrolments were over. Is that how we encourage demographics? The more your mother has to do now, the more she has to do for kindergarten. So their budget, the mother got the job not enriched, but everything she makes goes to kindergarten. If we're going to talk about demographic politics in these frameworks, then, colleagues and colleagues, we can turn off the light right now. And this budget rebalance, not the budget, and God gives me no indication now that this government seriously wants to tackle these problems. And then they'll tell you, no, no, no, the National Recovery and Resistance plan predicts the expansion of kindergarten capacity, but colleagues and colleagues, the competitions are already running late. Let's assume they're scheduled today, all of them. To report to local self-government units that are also kindergarten owners, I'm only giving you an example. To go without a fault means that they get the funds, to write out tenders for the performers, to get the performers to report, to have no complaints about the tenders, means that everything goes as fast as possible, the first kindergarten capacities we see, are new only in 2026 or '27. depending on the mode of realization, i.e. how fast the performer can do it. So we're talking about 4, 5, 6 years we have to wait. In the meantime, there are no compensatory measures. And now you're going to tell me that this government is demographically sensitive, to worry, let's say, about demographically threatened environments in Croatia, such as Osijek, no. I don't see it in this budget. And the budget, at the end of the day, colleagues and colleagues, is the personal identification of each government, political. Because it's not what we're propagating or want or what we're world-famous, it's in the budget what we want to do. And what are we doing in this budget? We're just patching up the holes. We're just going from hollow to empty, and we're hoping to keep it as long as possible. In the long run, this is a disaster. In the long run, this is a failure, in the long run, this isn't going to do anybody any good. And I'm sorry that on the side of the ruling people we'll often hear that accusation that we're not suggesting anything, that we don't have any concrete proposals, that we're just going to be foaming about what's supposed to be. But, colleagues and colleagues, it's important to look yourself in the eye now and tell the truth, and all those suggestions that hold water and all those suggestions that have heads and tails and all those suggestions that could contribute to the improvement are ignored by the ruling ones because they come from the opposition. I don't think it's a shame to say that someone saw a mistake or someone suggested something good, although for every proposal I'm assessing good I'm going to vote or from the opposition it doesn't matter, but at the end of the day I think we're too little to lose in some political debates about what anyone did or couldn't or could have wanted or did anyway. We need to be forward-oriented, we need to watch what we can do now and with the resources we have. And I'm afraid that this rebalancing is far from showing us all the government's senselessness, all the lack of the government's vision, and in the end, we're going to have to have at least one more budget rebalancing precisely because our rulings wouldn't listen to us in some of the crucial elements of the budget. And that's why the Social Democrats Club won't be able to support this rebalas. Because of what I've said, it's a personal political ID of every government we consider to be very bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110149	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Grozdana Peric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110150	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State and Treasury, here we have before us, dear colleagues and colleagues, with a rebalancing or alteration of the Republic of Croatia's 2022 budget with projections for '23. And '24. The Law on the implementation of the State budget together with the users, as well as the implementation of the budget for 2021. The revenues of the state budget as you have seen are based in 2022 on the expected trend in economic activity, taking into account the fiscal effects of tax changes under the value added tax and excise legislation system and the aim of easing inflationary pressure on the population and the economy. In fact, this Law on Amendments and Supplements is based on the Law on Value Added Tax, which entered into force on 1 April 2022 and despite colleagues saying that the amending budget, and that is also when the budget was passed, that it was unethical, that it was inadequate, that they had much better and smarter proposals, we did not see that these proposals were so much smarter and more significant that they could boast that they would significantly improve or create any document that would be sustainable. In fact, as I said in the Replica Minister, it is very quickly forgotten that it is in the previous and '20s. and '21. Thus, the pandemic years were maintained and tax reforms were being carried out, and very quickly it was forgotten that both the economy and the population were being displaced, and in this way it was actually possible for all those influences that were in order to lead to an increase in how personal incomes and also to stimulate both investment and the economy as a whole. So according to this, the economy has shown really great resilience, and yet thanks to the measures that were taken in the previous period, where these entrepreneurs were then also stimulated and supported by the measures the government was doing, and then when we talk about what the pandemic did, we mention more times how much the hole produced from the missing revenues and from those stimulants over 42 billion. So these changes and additions of the budget were now made in a way that at the same time this value added tax was significantly reduced by a large part of the goods and services as well as the energy products which had a strong impact on that and should have helped to precisely inflatoric pressures that were already present at the time that and prices were actually not actually so much, so significantly increasing. However, the new plan also shows in the realisation of the budget itself for the first 3 months that there has been an increase in revenue, and these changes increase revenues by 6.6 billion kuna, of which 1.9 billion kuna is precisely from VAT revenues because the normal base is higher. And also 1.9 billion out of contributions, and 1.8 from VAT. The rest actually comes from European funds. In terms of expenditure and expenditure, the total expenditure increases by 10.9 billion kuna to 184.7 billion kuna from 173.8 to 184.7 billion kuna. What's the most important thing? It has been mentioned here several times that the most significant item is for health expenditure. And when we look at what is financed from general incomes, which is 9.2 billion kuna. Then we see that from these general incomes is a recovery in health institutions, in health care is about 2 billion kuna. For pensions 1.8. For the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance a billion and a half. Filling in stock supplies for nearly 800 million kunas, including housing care for refugees. We also see that with the agreement reached with the trade unions, there is also respect for increasing expenditure for 4% employees, which is more than 550 million kuna in primary and secondary schools. In state administration authorities, the increase in energy prices requires new funds of nearly 245 million kuna, and also support in the agricultural sector is about 200 million kuna. The funds have also been increased for the Republic of Croatia's contribution to the budget of the European Union of 169 million kuna, as well as support for the preservation of jobs, investment for health infrastructure, guarantee reserve, implementation of operational programme projects, effective human potentials. Then for sport and real estate management, as well as to provide gas and national minority programmes. All this suggests that indeed the biggest users and consumers are just health care, and then social protection, because we need to note that around 3.8 billion kuna has been allocated for pensions and projects under the Operational Programme, effective human potential precisely as is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy and General Public Services, Economic Affairs, etc. So when we look at who is the biggest consumer such as health care is true, it is true that we also need to make a thorough analysis. But we must also be aware that certain actions and certain reforms could not be implemented at the time of the pandemic. And I wonder if anyone would dare do that at a time when we've had too many deaths anyway. When we look at the changes and the budget additions themselves, so the budget deficit is going to be, it's planned at $13.7 billion, which is 4.3 billion higher than the previous plan. This overall deficit will be significantly greater. However, it will continue to be within what is given, so below 3% and will be 2.9% of GDP, which is below 0.9% and percentage points more than it was in 2022 with a baseline plan. When we talk about the law itself on the implementation of the state budget here, I would also mention that the Committee on Fiscal Policy has also given its opinion, two opinions on the same and the proposal for an annual report for 2021, and also on the rebalancing where, as the report says, they also mention reforms in the health and pension systems, and also warn of certain risks that I have risked and the changes themselves have already been installed in much of what I am rebalancing and shows. I would like to point out that, as the Minister pointed out, it is completely changing, in line with the Budget Law adopted, as well as the entry into force at the beginning of this year, and in this way, the Law itself allows for a much faster and more efficient application of certain provisions, simplifies some procedures, the possibility that users can manage over a period of several years, so at least three years of funding that they may have available from European funds, etc. Therefore, all that the Budget Law has now provided for by the Implementation Act is indeed and enables it to be applied to rebalancing itself. What I would still point out for the execution of 2021, so, in 2021, even though it seems to us that it has long ended in 2021 and has been achieved at 154.1 billion kuna or 0.3% more than the plan compared to the previous year, so these revenues have been increased even by 17.1%)%, expenditures have been made at the level of 169 billion kuna and that is 97.5 percent of planned expenditure. What should be noted, therefore, in 2021 was also a very demanding and difficult year, however, what is important to say that exactly the most significant expenditures in 2021 were made within the pension programme and pension income of $43.5 billion, while for staff expenditures, including in primary and secondary schools, 33.5 billion kuna was allocated. At the health ministry's positions, more than 17,5 billion kuna were allocated, of which more than 6.4 were additional funds to settle part of the debt of hospital health institutions to which the founder of the Republic of Croatia was. So, in that year, what I have previously mentioned has also led to some changes, both in tax, therefore in fiscal policy, where there have been significant changes and in the burden or discharge of entrepreneurs and citizens. All of this has to be noted that in 2021, increased expenditures were also for the purchase of aircraft, and also that a billion and a half were compensatory measures for local self-government units, which we must never forget. Here, according to that, as simple as anyone thinks it is, this is The HDZ will accept this proposal to amend and supplement. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110151	Now, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Dragana Jeckov, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110152	... Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished representative of the Ministry of Finance. [[Specially enabled.]] As we all know, the state budget is a dynamic area and must monitor the blood count of society and economy, so in this sense today we are also discussing this first year's rebalancing. State budget for 2022 that we've brought in 8.12.21. It envisioned revenue of HRK 164.5 billion and expenditures of nearly 173,8 billion and a budget deficit of 9 or 2.6% of GDP. That deficit was planned to be financed by the difference between the total receipts from financial assets and borrowings and the total expenditure on financial assets and the repayment of loans. With the rebalancing we are currently discussing, budget revenues are increasing by 6.6 billion kuna or 4%, and expenditures by 10.9 billion kuna so that the projected budget deficit will be increased from planned 2.6 to 2.8. Rebalance is simplified, can be reduced to three main reasons. Energy crisis, agreement with growth unions, basic pay and health expenditure. In any event, it should be noted that expenditure marking the resolution of the security situation in Europe as a result of the war in Ukraine, the appropriate reception and disposal of Ukrainian refugees, gas supply insurance, supply of supplies, an increase in the base for the calculation of salaries in state and public services by 4% of 1.5th, and the provision of funds for the measure to mitigate energy prices, including the subsidisation of gas prices and the compensation for the threatened buyer of energy. A good part of the amount covered by this rebalancing, namely 3.12 billion kuna, refers to the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, Family and Social Policy, so that the new minister will have considerable funds we hope to use in the right way. I point out that the funding of the transitional period, or project Zaželi, has been positively accepted. I spoke about the importance of this project several times after this speaker and also, I mentioned in the debate on the State Budget for 2022, so they are very pleased that the voice on the ground, especially the rural areas I have carried here, has been understood and accepted. Not to mention now that 748 projects have been agreed through the previous two phases. More than 9,800 women employed who cared for 79,000 elderly and powerless people throughout our country. These commendable projects were generally implemented, as I said in harder accessible and rural areas, in areas where the unemployment rate and the rate of long-term unemployment are higher than the Croatian average. The programme is multiplely useful, both from the perspective of women employed, from the perspective of users or older people and persons in a more unfavourable position and often employed women and users used to say that this is a concrete and extremely tangible project to be continued. For this reason, it is important after the short transition phase to get to a safer place, that will be dominated by EU funds and, as I said, which will be longer. The compensation for the threatened buyer of energy has also been changed and has increased from initial 120 million to slightly more than 380. The status of the threatened buyer or the right to co-finance energy costs may be achieved by the beneficiary of the guaranteed minimum fee and by the user of the personal disability up to a maximum of 400 kuna per month. Of course, we are all aware that this measure is not a solution to the problem but possibly its mitigation, but certainly something to point out. As members and representatives of the Serb national minority, they cannot praise the increase in funds in the Human Rights and Rights Office, especially those concerning the national minority programme. However, it continues to worry that a little less than 170 thousand kuna is intended to support the fight against hate crimes, which is certainly a significant step towards the initial 40,000 kuna. Reports of absolutely all the competent authorities of the Ombudsman, the above mentioned Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, and some bodies of international character such as the Advisory Committee for the Implementation of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, say that the situation in the hate crime sphere is getting worse every day, and therefore perhaps the opinions themselves should have been allocated to more significant resources in this item. And according to the statistics available by the MUP during 2021, they were treated for 101 crimes motivated by hate, crimes with elements of hate crime and the criminal act of public inciting violence and hatred, while 87 of these were recorded in 2020. So here I'm talking about the criminal sphere, so I hope we agree that the $170,000 mentioned to support the fight against crime is not enough. Unfortunately, the state of war can get out of people the worst, that some live on the torture of others, moral perversions get a special place, bad people in these situations don't survive from anything, so in the media, we can read about situations that talk about increasing human trafficking. Merchants mix with the population, offer transportation and, of course, grow fears that those who were happy enough to avoid death in Ukraine could be victims of human traffickers. It must be a long-term threat to both women and children in this area. The threat was strengthened by the conflict and the UN's International Organisation for Migration has already warned refugees fleeing the country to guard such traders who want to use a chaotic exodus. In this regard, it is unclear for me that we have a reduction in the resources foreseen for the implementation of the National Plan to combat human trafficking to 255,000 kuna. Although the budget of the Ministry of Science and Education has increased by 15 million kuna for some reasons, there was no room to increase the amount intended for the education of members of national minorities, regardless of what individuals think of minority education I think it would be good to increase the funds for preschool education for children members of national minorities because the funds continue to be allocated according to the formulas under sublegal acts at the end of the 1990s. After a significant recovery from the pandemic of the Coronal Virus in 2021, new challenges such as geopolitical tensions emerged, continued supply chain disturbances, financial market instability, and all of this occurred in the context of rising inflationary pressures. This, of course, results in strong challenges in creating economic policy, as well as fiscal policy, which needs to respond in due time to current and projected socio-economic changes in the domestic and foreign environment. The SDSS advocates' club will support the draft amendments and additions to the state budget law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110153	The Honorable Representative Daniel Spajic will speak on behalf of the House Movement Representative's Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110154	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In December 2021, I also spoke about the budget of the Republic of Croatia, pointing out two things, where I ironically praised the government of Andrej Plenkovic and his budgetary tractorists. These two commendations were like this: the first recovery program of 2 million kuna. So, for being negatively selective and corrupt, you expelled more than 10% of the population of the Republic of Croatia later, you went to some ridiculous amounts of people trying to come back. Of course, that didn't work. Unfortunately, we still have negative trends as far as that goes. The second commendation referred to an increase in the budget to fight corruption. You've singled out 18% for this item. When you say 18% that sounds a lot if it's about, for example, 10 million kuna, but if it's about 14000 kuna where the increase is from two and a half to 16 and a half thousand kuna, for a country that's third to corruption in the EU, then we know we didn't do anything. If Croatian citizens know that the average pension rate in the average salary in the last six years has dropped from 43 to 38%, it is one of the smallest in the EU. More and more of our pensioners are living below the poverty line, although as many as 17 and a half billion kunas of tax revenues are being transferred to cover pensions. If Croatian citizens know that the dueiosis in the health system is untransparently spreading and things are spreading, the ministers are hiding like a snake's feet. It is certain that some 22 billion kuna will be collected through contributions, and another five billion through participations, additional, health donations from the bill. It was certain that some 8 billion kuna would be missing in the following year, which would eventually have to be managed from the Republic of Croatia's budget. That's one of the reasons why we should be doing the rebalancing we're doing right now. The government also boasted that the share of public debt in GDP will fall in the coming years to levels that are among the smallest in the European Union. It's true, but the truth that hides real problems. After Milanovic's government, which owed the state between 70 billion and 80 billion kuna, we thought it couldn't go up there. In this, however, we were denied by Andrej Plenkovic with his trade coalition, which has been in charge of over 100 billion kuna since 2016. So where's the money? What makes Croatia a better country after spending all that wealth? 100 billion kunas we could have had our money under the quality management of state property, but we didn't. That's where we get the embarrassing 2.4 billion kuna. It is clear from the budget that we will allocate 7.3 billion kuna to interest on these debts, which is enough for every underage child in the Republic of Croatia to receive a children's allowance of 850 kuna per month, and this would be the right measure and the right of every child, not the social category and what we are giving which doesn't encourage our people to stay in Croatia. This would be one of the good measures. The budget also mentions the amount of 790 million kuna to take care of the returnees, refugees, and that amount goes up to over a billion next year, and over 3 years we will reach some 3 billion kuna. Then we didn't know what kind of exiles, refugees. I asked questions more than once, no one knew how to answer. But after the terrible war in Ukraine and the arrival of certain refugees in the Republic of Croatia are welcome and they need help, the only question is whether the Government knew what the situation in Ukraine knew before informing Croatian citizens, so it put it in the budget item? That's the question. At the same time, the help of returning Croats to Bosnia and Herzegovina will be a ridiculous 5 million kuna. So did we invest that we have Komsic on HRT "Sunday at 2" while the Croats breathe on the gills in Bosnia and Herzegovina, did we invest in it? You've invested 100 million kunas to promote a real or functional merger of local units. There were 80 splits to 500. So what do we want to do now? Does that mean they weren't functional before? Well, they're not. So they need to be abolished if they're not functional, not investing an extra 100 million kuna. What are we paying for? Thousands of pages of various documents and different nebuloses that smell seriously of corruption, instead of using a historical opportunity to launch in the EU funds Croatia and put on the pathways of sustainable development and demographic recovery, from budgets and rebalances, it is certain that we will lose an additional 4.5 years and even deeper into structural problems. When it comes to the rebalancing we're talking about today, budget expenditures rise by 6.6 billion kuna. Just as much as it takes for the budget deficit to be slightly below 3% to avoid jeopardising the European Union's decisions to approve the euro, well planned. It's a shame only for Minister Beros and his team that the government unfortunately has to respect this limit, he'd get more money for his black holes in health care. The main sources of funding for this rebalancing are increased tax revenues and further charity from the European Union. We have already repeatedly warned that budget revenues are already seriously dependent on EU aid. How are we going to worry about the budget when that 20% of the income disappears one day? Those of us who don't have plans to be in the Brussels offices and embassies then are very interested in how our public systems are going to work. And the opinion of Brussels and the view from there is the most important guideline for the management of the Croatian Minister, which is unfortunately what you showed yesterday when you said what inflation is speeding up and it will be two-digit. But it did not concern you because it does not go beyond the European Union average. So I don't care with all due respect what it's like in Bulgaria. We fight for ourselves. The fact that professors and pensioners will get raises that are significantly less than inflation doesn't worry anyone. The government boasts this morning that the pensioners will be given nearly half a billion kunas for energy subsidies, and the difference between inflation and pensions is several times higher. We raised pensions by 2.5%, invested 900 million kuna when our inflation was over 10%. Well, it's no help, we have to be realistic. The pensioners, like the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, breathe on gills. The largest source of additional revenue for financing this rebalancing is taxes, including a higher profit tax of over 800 million kuna. So again, extra pressure on the economy. I don't know if Croatian citizens know that our emigrants are 3 times more paid in Croatia than all foreign investors. Almost 6% of GDP makes payments from our emigrants in Croatia that are being paid in Croatia. They were even about 7% of GDP before this crown crisis. So we don't have a good climate in the Republic of Croatia, we don't have foreign investors, not because we have kuna because kuna is a stable currency, but because we have a corrupt country. But here, let's set aside 16 and a half thousand kuna to fight corruption. It's a shame to read this. What else could I possibly do? Well, the biggest beneficiary of this rebalance should be noted that it's healthcare again. When the budget was adopted, we pointed out that he was unrealistic in the health care area, that the health hole would amount to billions of kunas, which has now been confirmed by the fact that only part of that black hole was being covered. The rest is left for future periods, and Beroš and his florists and release consultants and suppliers continue as they were. What about health reform? Well, this Berosch is gonna wrap the whole country black with all the manifesto. The transparency of our budget which is a cabbage of several hundred pages best tells the fact that the largest individual item of increase has a name to watch this transfer between budget users of the same budget point. Whoever figures out what it is to let the public know, I'd like to know the same thing. I think in the tenth month, they're coming from Beroš's new covid certificate, because the people will slowly understand the state's situation. He'll want to go to the protests, but then he'll step on the main guy to stop the protests, all the traps on our dear Minister Willy who'll probably introduce a mandatory covid certificate, keep the people on a tight leash so they can't accidentally rebel against it so they don't get out on the streets. I think it's gonna happen sometime in 10 months, but here's what I said. You were alive and seen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110155	The next club of representatives will be the one for a just Croatia, and the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110156	Honorable chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. I can't help but start my presentation today with a sentence that most people won't like. Our citizens are killed by inflation, while the state is collecting more and more taxes and wasting them in a frenzy. It's my vision of today's rebalancing. The total revenues of the State budget are increasing by 4% and 6.6 billion kuna, respectively. The government's income, therefore, from the value added tax that the state raises by $1.8 billion and totals €62.6 billion, and the revenues from the state's contributions are increasing by $1.9 billion and totaling €28 billion. Since the state has already collected more money, it's time to spend it more. However, more will be spent than has been collected, so 9.2 billion total increases in our country's expenditure. The fact that inflation in Croatia reached 9.4% in April was no reason because it was obvious that the monthly rise in consumer prices would not be easy to stop. The trend in price growth has so far reflected the purchases that began to cause global congestion and supply chains, and now data integrate the consequences of the geopolitical crisis caused by war aggression in Ukraine. Although the majority of domestic economists in their analyses are trying to stick conservatively, they remain on the forecast of moderate price growth now becomes clear that we still need to expect the transition of inflation even to a two-digit number which will obviously not be recognised by the Ministry of Finance today or by the Croatian National Bank. But citizens see what's going on. Citizens have long been in fear and sound logic tells them that we are not ready to face this crisis. And why didn't we? For many years, our citizens have been waiting for their promised changes, they expect health reform, they expect reform of the justice system, reform of agricultural policy, reform of the administration. What have we got all these years? The crumbs from the table. About the health system a little later, considering he's one of the reasons for the rebalancing. But first I want to talk about our country's food addiction, because it worries me the most. For example, German Minister of Economic Co-operation and Development Sven Schulze has warned very realisticly these days in the Bild talks that the world is at risk of an acute crisis due to dizzy food prices. The situation is very dramatic because of the pandemic of the coronary virus, extreme droughts and war in Ukraine, world food prices have increased by a third and are now at a record level. The World Food Programme currently estimates that more than 300 million people suffer from acute hunger and constantly has to correct the figures by increasing its estimates. It's a bitter message that we've been threatened by the greatest crisis since World War II. Millions of people will die said Schulze. She equally commented on whether it's okay, for example, to turn German grain into green fuel when people all over the world are starving. No one wants to be responsible for increasing the number of hungry people in the world, we have to stop putting food in the car tanks whether it's wheat, palm oil, rape or corn. The share of 4.4% of fuel is food for humans and animals. This should be reduced to zero, not only in Germany, but as much as possible at international level. In Germany, 2.5 billion gallons of vegetable oil fuel is poured into car tanks each year. That's almost half a harvest of sunflower oil in Ukraine she added. Putin uses hunger to wage war. It takes advantage of the fact that many countries around the world depend on Russian and Ukrainian agricultural products. He stole grain from Ukraine and will export it to countries that are undoubtedly pro-Russian-friendly. At the UN General Assembly, 40 countries in which half the world's population lives did not condemn Putin's aggression. This is a concrete result of food blackmail vulnerability, she also said. What about Croatia? Is the mega crisis coming to us, too, and what will this rebalancing bring about positively? Inflation in Croatia feels the most citizens on their skin, prices rise, consumer baskets are increasingly expensive, and the end is not seen for now in these geopolitical relations. The crises have different sources, so the crisis in 2008 and 2009, respectively, had a spring in the decline of the US's bad credit markets, and this has spread to the EU as well as to Croatia. Since the 2009 crisis, where gross domestic product has fallen more than 13%, Croatia has recovered for about six years. Now we have this price hike shock above all the energy. Energy accounts for about 65% of total price growth and the energy shock we are experiencing now can lead to a reduction in economic activity which will also have its consequences. Russia's aggression in Ukraine has burdened the market further, so there are now a number of different manipulationists who think they can make a profit on oil and buy it at high prices to resell it at even higher prices. Europe and Croatia were dependent on rather cheap Russian gas, and now it is difficult to change this habit of consumption of Russian gas and to turn to some other energy products, especially if you are a country like Croatia that has limited its citizens to energize themselves, and in parallel, rather similar to some other occasions, you have enjoyed certain individuals. Our citizens are interested in the answer to the question whether we are at the top of the price collection of food and energy, or whether the peak is still waiting for us? If food production were our local thing in which we wisely and systematically invested, we certainly wouldn't have come into today's price-dependence situation and the quantities dictated by other countries. Equally, we did not benefit from large systems at the expense of small family economies, surely we would not be worried about the lack of basic lifespans such as milk, meat. It's simply unacceptable to transport food thousands of miles away. Those who do not have enough food production today have serious problems. On the Croatian market, frozen chicken came from Brazil, beef from Argentina, which is all very expensive nonsens. Croatia has great potential for food production, and the ruling ones are obliged to organise local food production. Public procurement in Croatia has so far preferred low prices, so public institutions when they were getting food bought chicken from Brazil because it was the cheapest. But is it good for the domestic market, for people who consume it, for the Croatian economy? No one's even thought about it. That's why things are changing tectonically now, and in the coming years we'll see how this monetary policy and the reduction of money in circulation and the impact on inflationary movements and in general on the market. And now for a little bit about health care. I simply must say a few words about the device intended for the KBC of the Missile Sisters commendably, of course, because it is about the purchase of medical equipment for the Wine City Hospital, but that same device has been overpaid by 111%. Let us also mention the fact that USKOK has launched reconnaissances in the event of disputed payments by the Ministry of Health, Kuspis, owned by ministers of friends Vinko Kujundzic, who received contracts for the upgrade of information programmes. Kuspis only charged $1.75 million for 12 days, with their money being paid back in 2020. According to the State Audit report from the payment documents on the basis of which you account for services and paid an account, it is not clear how many persons there are and at what extent, but at what time period these services were performed, so they issued a warrant to the Ministry to verify the truthfulness of the invoices before they were settled. It is not burning in the context of this story to remind that Minister Beros and Kujudzic also co-operated on the "Break Up" platform, which still experienced its fiasco. Meanwhile, the Croatian public finds out that Kujundzic is a close friend of Minister Beros, and that they are still flying together in the same place. Otherwise, Kuspis grew up from London Kuspis, whose co-owners were Vinko and Maja Kujundzic, and its business flourished in 2018 when Beros became assistant to former health minister Milan Kujundzic. The health minister has not solved debt problems according to large-scale drugs that exceed 5 billion kunas, nor is the end of the waiting lists problem seen. If he's going to, he's going to, but this rebalancing is going to help us too, so let's all see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110157	Thank you very much. Now, before we continue, it is my great pleasure that after two years of not having visitors at the gallery we can welcome the students of the Croatian Faculty of Communications Studies in the course of business communication colleges, so I suggest we welcome them with applause. And now we will continue to work, and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, the respected representative Katarina Peovic will speak. [[Applause]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110158	Good afternoon. Hello to the students of communicology. And so I asked what the Minister will do this morning or what the State will do if there is an increase in the ECB's interest rates and if they produce a recession means an additional rise in interest rates and if they produce a recession, a drop in production, an increase in unemployment and a rise in public debt, whether we will be able to implement anticyclical policies that would ensure the compensatory growth of public spending or continue to implement policies of financial consolidation and correct the European Stability Pact semester, etc. So we know that the crown is that these rules are suspended. The minister said it's already happening. So that's true. So, the question was how much interest rates would be raised, especially after the euro was introduced. What we must note and what many here have said is that indeed of those 5 criteria for the convergence of price stability, interest rates, deficit, public debt, the stability of exchange rates prescribed by the Maastricht Treaty in 1992 for the accession of new members to the European Monetary Union or for the entry into the Eurozone of Croatia for years meets the criteria of public debt below 60% of GDP in recent years or by the corona of the crisis does not satisfy the general government deficit criterion below 3% of GDP, and since this year it does not satisfy a significant third criterion for the macroeconomic implications of the most important price stability criterion, which says that the inflation rate must not be higher than 1.5% of the average member rate with the lowest inflation rate in the previous year and according to current trends, it is likely that from the entry of that criterion will be even more pronounced by the end of the year. But it seems that the people of the government, and especially the people of the CNB, don't put it in place. I will warn that in itself, the very definition of the purpose of the function of the target and any sense of the CNB stands as the first and primary objective, means control of inflation. They obviously don't deal with it. It's obviously not their question at all, nor do they think it's their goal. They generally act as if everything was imported, we do not have any mechanisms to deal with it, and by entering the euro area the CNB will actually further resolve any responsibility and transfer all responsibility to the euro area and integration, further integration means in the European and financial framework, and I think that the CNB function itself is becoming questionable at all. And we from the Workers' Front are actually calling for the CNB to be renamed because it is really and essentially not the Croatian National Bank. The people have nothing to do with their existence. But what neither the government nor the CNB is going to address is that of these meanings of the convergence criteria we really need to notice are not respecting any of them. And what's the same thing to say is a cynical argument is when you say that we don't meet the convergence criteria, that it answers you that it's about all the happiness that we're going into the Eurozone because I don't think normal conditions are even going to be able to get into the euro area because we don't meet the convergence criteria as if by some principle I mean neoliberal policies we shouldn't meet those criteria because of someone else, but I guess because of ourselves, because then we can't talk about any integration into financial flows, nor can we talk about any convergence if we go into the euro zone, and we're not ready for it. Well, that means people from the government or the CNB don't get too set up. They push us into the eurozone at all costs, regardless of the criteria and consequences of introducing the euro for the working majority. In any case, we can only conclude that they are counting that their standard will not be questioned, in particular, by the people of the CNB who set their own salaries and these salaries are far more than any pay in the public sector anywhere. The minister said that the share of public debt in GDP is reduced each year, except for 2020 when the crisis was corona. Of course it's shrinking, but it's not below 40% as prescribed by the Mastricht, and in recent years, the crown has increased as well as the deficit. But now inflation is really a key problem. Both the criteria and the conditions that we are not meeting right now, and towards the end of the year and approaching entry into the euro, it is only likely that the situation will get worse and worse. Unless, of course, interest rates are further raised and recessions are produced which will reduce inflation, but public debt and budget deficits will grow. The thing is, therefore, and I mentioned this this morning that we in the EU as well as other countries are now allowed not to adhere to the criteria of the Stability Pact, the European Semester because of the crown, because of all the extraordinary conditions. But when inflation is actually happening, when this inflation is wild, it is quite likely that it will start to insist on it again, and actually I think, from the point of view of the conditions that this budget has put to itself as a framework, we cannot say that the budget is shocking or that it is expected in the frameworks that he has set for himself, but does not take into account what will come. So we haven't fallen as far down as we can and how much we're going to fall, especially when we enter the euro area. And then again, as in 2010 to 2015, we will have an extended recession, because the state will no longer be able to use anticyclical micro and macro-economic levers, i.e. it will not be able to stimulate aggregate demand through public consumption, investment. So we're known to have stayed the longest in that crisis in 2008, the ninth year. We can expect this to happen again. So this neoliberal Stability Pact that restricts the ability of the state to borrow, i.e. deficiently finance investment spending, is indeed only temporarily put out of force. Between 2015 and 2019, I also think that often it is not mentioned at all in these discussions and actually serves as a cheap balling between the SDP and the HDZ, but it means between 2015 and 2019 we also had a conjuncture as well as other countries, so that's why the deficit, public debt was reduced, and then Corona came. The European Union has allowed countries to freely borrow, spend, in order to compensate for the fall. Now there is no crown, or it is not in that symbolic sense that it is imposed as a major issue and has inflation and is announced to raise interest rates. With this in the package comes the return of restrictions on state spending, but we're not exactly going to hear the meaning of HDZ, that's not exactly what you're going to say, although in some way Minister Maric said that in response to my question because it's actually real. But if I look at myself from a narrow perspective and repeat what I can do, which I can't think of, we can't talk about rebalancing in some negative way. What could be noted is a criticism of some broader policy being conducted here by non-progressive policies, and above all there is thought of tax reforms initiated by Minister Maric. Five tax reforms, five waves of income tax reform, which are all in turn, were indeed what one of our late economists said in the fifth bourgeoisie reform, the reform for the petty bourgeoisia, those over 25 thousand kunas got the most. So people with salaries over 25 thousand kuna got the most of these tax reforms, 1500 kuna more on the salary, while those with salaries of about 10 thousand kuna got only a few hundred kunas, and those with less than a hundred kunas. So it's really about those who already have high salaries going hand in hand not taking into account that, I think, in Croatia where we have some of the lowest salaries and minimum and average salaries, it's really important to raise the salaries of most, working majority, so the working majority of them, almost 90% have salaries below 15 thousand kuna. So who did we hit here? Certainly not to that majority, is it? Not only is it good for them some aspect of social justice, but it's really good from the aspect of the economy because it's about people who spend on basic food, hygiene needs, meaning not on luxury. Consumption is indeed what would stimulate our economic growth, and when we talk about it, we really are, and that's one of the indicators of how poor we are, the very large percentage of wages are spent precisely on these basic food and hygiene supplies, in richer countries, that percentage is much smaller. In our case, people are really spending on what is most necessary. Such tax reform would also encourage economic growth, not to mention that we could speak and plan smart social and economic policies that would go towards encouraging our pharmaceuticals, and therefore we will certainly support our amendment by supporting larger investments, a larger amount for the Immunological Institute, which again, I think, in this budget, i.e. the budget rebalancing of the budget, without some significant figures, even though it is said to be renewed, that it will build, I don't think it's realistic either by this budget or by budget rebalancing. Or, for example, it could be invested in the food industry, food self-sufficiency would be increasingly important, and it was quite likely how important it was and how much work should be done at the time of the crown and I remember a statement by Minister Marić, which I might frame and put here, as a relic, I don't know what kind of moment because I really welcomed her, at the beginning of the Corona Minister Maric said, we just know and understand how important it is to develop our food industry and pharmaceuticals, and we will focus in this direction. I mean, it was that one sentence, and unfortunately after that, it wasn't exactly a revolutionary progress in that direction, but I would say, I would certainly welcome the policy. But well, that would be some progressive policy, I say, within this budget rebalance we don't have some, I mean, criticism or any comments because it's more or less, and I mean, within the limits, as it says, possible. In any case, by rebalance of the State budget for 2022, the biggest increase in expenditure financed from general incomes and receipts was planned, meaning for health recovery, 3.5 billion kuna, here we can only say that the opposition really warned that the budget was not realistic about health, there they were, would all in the opposition agree more or less and warn that there would come a rebalancing which is coming, but it certainly is expected. For pensions, so what has increased in the rebalancing, that is, that is, pension expenditures, 1.8 billion, expenditures related to the consequences of the war in Ukraine 1 billion and expenditures for employees of 550 million kuna. All negative aspects of dissatisfaction with these convergence conditions, in particular the inflations I mentioned, should not be broken on the back of the weakest. The tightening of the belts, meaning the classic, fiscal contractions, the break of those criteria to the most endangered, but it means now according to this budget rebalancing and at this point, we're afraid we're not seeing the worst yet, is that, that the worst is actually just going to come. That would be in principle, so as far as the amendments are concerned, we will stick to some of our standard places that no one will warn, which is how much money is spent on the Church, how much is spent on dangerous historical auditism, how much is spent on the military, means even though we've warned more times, I think that the absurd fact that by joining NATO, the alliance has been said that we are going to spend a lot less money, that we are safer, so the instructions that we should stand out about 3% of GDP, now we stand out more than 2%, which was NATO's recommendation, but we've accepted it bothly as soon as it's arrived, and we are going to single out even more because this budget rebalance is being imposed on something like that, or something like that. In any case, we give more to assistants in the special-needs class, which every time we warn that it's not enough, that continuing assistants really need to be leveled with employees' rights indefinitely, they can no longer be temporary, it's not even a seasonal workforce that gets a contract only over the year, and then over the summer they leave without a contract and then come back, so in September. Also, for various social transfers, we think that we should really give more, we think that we should give more for the housing of victims of domestic violence, which is increased in the budget itself, means but it is still insufficient, as well as for science that is as always denied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110159	Thank you very much. We're going to take a short break now because the information needs it, so here we are, we can see you in 15 and 55 minutes. 55. Meeting in 15.47 hours. CONTINUED AFTER THE STAND IN 15.47 Dear colleagues and colleagues continue to work with individual debates and will first speak the respected representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110161	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. So it is always good when changes and additions to the State budget for the current year are discussed at the same session when talking and discussing the implementation of the budget for the previous year, then I think we can have an accurate insight into what the amount of revenue per item or expenditure was. It should not be forgotten that this 2022 year has seen a strong economic downturn at the level of the entire European Union caused primarily by the pandemic of the coronary virus, but we also have new challenges of geopolitical tensions, supply chains, financial market instability, we have growing inflation, and therefore in the Republic of Croatia we expect to see consumer price inflation as much as 7.8%. We could see that total revenues are planning an increase of 6.6 billion kuna, while expenditures are increasing by 10.9 billion kuna so that they will total 184.7 billion kuna. I'd like to talk a little bit more about this spending side, because when we talk about incomes, we'd all like to have as much income as we can, and that's where we're trying. However, the expenditure will certainly be discussed whether some expenditure and some expenditure items should be reduced. I was glad to hear before even my colleague Peovic said that there are no major objections to this rebalancing. Now that we're talking about the expense side, what we can see is that the most resources go to settle the obligations of health care institutions. So the Ministry of Health gets as much as 3 billion 889 million kunas more. The appropriate reception and care of Ukrainian refugees also require increases, so that only for private accommodation financing is guaranteed 285 million kuna, while 37 million kuna is provided for the health protection of foreigners. Why am I saying this? Because I think if someone calls for an increase in extremely high expenditures it would be good to say here I am against being even more isolated for health care or I don't want that much resources to be allocated to the care of Ukrainian refugees. Or, for example, In order to support job conservation, the item receives as much as 367 million kuna. Of course, we know that the funds are also provided for measures to mitigate energy prices. The total expenditure on subsidies is €9.3 billion, which is an increase of €1 billion primarily due to an increase in the allocation to support the agriculture sector, due to the resolution of the security situation in Europe due to the aggression in Ukraine. The total aid also increases by 4.8 billion primarily for recovery, as said by the health care institution, but also for increasing the expenditure on primary and secondary school employees due to changes in the wage base growth. We know that negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Union have been successfully concluded and that this basis has been increased for the calculation of salaries in state and public services by 4% and, of course, the expenditure side should therefore have been increased. Citizens' and households' fees also increase by 2.3 billion kuna because additional funding from pensions had to be provided to ease the price of gas. 65.9 million kuna is provided for co-financing of European projects. It is assumed that there are smaller municipalities and cities that can't even make the most of 15% if 85% of the EU's grants are provided on their own, so 65.9 million kuna is provided for that purpose as well. The most joyous that we have employment growth, in this original budget was projected by 1.7% and by these changes as much as 2.8%. If we look at a few figures, we see that in 2019 there were millions and 555 thousand employees, and then 20 fell by 1.3%, and then it increased again 21st, and now already in March this year means before the tourist season we have an increase of 1.3% higher and over a million and 550 thousand employees. Here's to the expense, the revenue side, I didn't make it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110162	We've got more replicas. The first is a respected representative of Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110163	Dear colleagues, there may be something about the subject, but I'd like them to pay a little attention to both the colleagues and the ministry, so maybe later they'll answer me or take my word. So the state stopped the rise in the price of electricity for the public, for the household which is fine. But it's not for the economy, and now we have one problem. This is what my colleague Bulj pointed out today, but you couldn't quite understand him for subjective reasons. In Šibenik specifically after the calculation because the current went 3 times higher, 300% is about the electricity offer will have to be priced approximately for water raised by... %. [[You don't understand.]] This is not only a case in Sibenik, but it means most of the water lines in Croatia. Can you make a model? I don't actually know what to offer to get through water in some way or to get the electricity sold to the plumbing also subsidized or to stop its rise?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110164	Dear representative Juričev-Martinchev [[Intruder: My colleagues, this has been directed to you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110165	Thank you very much, colleague Zekanovic. We know that cities and municipalities have a growing problem, given the increase in electricity prices, it is not only public lighting but also heating in institutions, especially kindergartens and the like. Even here, I referred a replica when we had recent changes and additions to the Law on Preschool Education, and it is certain that this is a subject to sit and discuss, however, and I personally talked to the president of HEP, they believe that this was also too much of a burden, that only by the rebalance of the budget, if significant funds are to be allocated and co-financed, then it is possible, and otherwise it will not be feasible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110166	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110167	Thank you, well-respected chairman, dear colleague. Given that the united points today are ahead of us and the annual report on the implementation of the State budget for 2021, which primarily shows a strong economic recovery and strong economic activity in 2021, resulting above all in an increase in real GDP by 10.2% at the end of the year, which is the only EU country with two-digit growth other than Ireland. We also had a small increase in trade by 12%, but also very crucial and important, and an increase in exports by 28.5%, while imports amounted to 23%, thus covering imports with exports for record now, 67%. But also, we had a successful tourist season. Since you come from that part of the Republic of Croatia, So we see progress in all activities. [[Thank you. Dear...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110168	...representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110169	Thank you very much, Comrade Mazhar. Just like I said, I didn't get much on the revenue side. And I'm happy to see that 3% increase in economic growth, and then we can see that profit tax revenues are planned for these changes and additions, even a 10% increase. When we talk about projected VAT revenues, then we can say that given inflation, there will be an increase in the price, and then they can be higher incomes, but surely they will, and thanks to the increase in personal consumption, and all of these measures, from active employment measures, support for jobs, as well as tourist services and investment, all of this will contribute to the growth of income that will, we can say, only 6.6 billion because it would certainly be in our interest to be as minimal as the expenditures are increasing. But in any case, a 3% growth in the economy is a joyous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110170	Dear representative Pocrnic-Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110171	Thank you, dear colleague. The state budget has a significant impact on the standard of our citizens and on the availability of services that must be guaranteed to everyone in the same way within the same range. I come from Ličko-Senj County, the largest populated county with the lowest population that is constantly decreasing and thus we come into the situation that many of my fellow citizens are reducing the availability of certain services. I'm going to look at education, for example, where there's an example. a small number of students led to a reduction in the number of class departments prescribed by the Ministry. This also reduces the number of programmes and choices for students who are forced to go to other parts of Croatia, and there is little chance that they will return after schooling and return. We MPs must send messages to the Government and the Ministry to take care of the even regional development and specificities of individual areas so that all citizens in the Republic of Croatia have the same opportunities in the same range to use budget funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110172	Thank you. Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110173	Thank you very much, colleague Porniæ. Well, balanced regional development is also the goal of the Republic of Croatia, but also of the EU, which means that not only our funds but also our European funds are given priority to projects that have an impact on making development as balanced as possible. When we look at this budget rebalancing, we have an additional 21 million in the Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, however, the Ministry of Agriculture through which numerous projects are also carried out in terms of administratively balanced development or financing of those projects in settlements below 5 thousand inhabitants, etc., gets an additional 219 million kuna. I expect these additional funds to go in that direction and to that end.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110174	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110175	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. In your replica, you referred to a statement yesterday at a convenient meeting of Sibenik-Knin County by President Milanovic, which criticises almost no increase in EU funds. However, only in the budget item, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy shows that this rebalancing has increased funds for the implementation of EU funds projects, e.g. so popular and eagerly expected extension of the program Zaželi, 405 million, personal assistants 56 million, expansion of the service network 16 million. Also, a very demanding and significant program... Almost 10 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How, then, can you compare his claim and the data that you made in the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110176	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110177	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Murganic. I will repeat because obviously President Milanovic keeps repeating, I would say, mantra how we got and we're only 5 billion in plus. Then, I don't know, when she repeats it a couple of times, then she's so shyly saying that we're in a plus. Once again, 125, over 125% we have contracted funds, 70% paid, the difference between paid and paid funds when it comes to the EU budget is more than 49 billion kuna, and with the funds obtained from the National Plan and the Recovery, together is 55 billion points 22 kuna, which means that we are 55 billion in plus, and not as he has been saying for the past few years that we are 5 billion in all plus. That's a negligible amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110178	Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110179	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, as I have already pointed out, and in my opening speech, despite all the challenges, we note the continued growth of employees, salaries, pensions and this rebalancing provides additional funds for their further growth, so you also mentioned 4% of the growth in government and public employees' salaries. They also provided rebalancing funds for the further growth of pensions and energy supplements that started paying off last Friday, and you mentioned concrete measures directly affecting the number of jobs or job creations, which are active employment measures, so it might be good to explain a little more the most popular measure, which is a self-employment measure, but also to point out once again the importance of women's employment measures through the project Wish.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110180	Thank you. Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110181	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Buric, for the active employment policy we have reserved 107 million, we have now additionally singled out 29 more so that a total of 135 million kuna will be available on the subject of the active employment policy measures. To support the preservation of jobs we had 50 million kunas, and now an additional 367, which is 417 million kuna, now that's enough to say that it means 7 times more funds we've allocated than we originally predicted when we put the budget together before the end of 2021. And of course, with all these measures, we have come to say with pride that in the 3rd month of this year we have more employees than we had in 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110182	The following will be spoken by the esteemed representative Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110183	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's something I want to tell you about maybe the rebalancing and the implementation of last year's budget in my own way because we witnessed on Friday that the progressive opposition was ultimately requiring the disbanding of HS, today the government is doing something better, it's good and I think all these discussions are going in that direction, there are no big objections to this budget rebalance, so things are actually getting a little clearer, we see who's doing politics, who's doing serious work, that all of what we do in some way over the year we spend and bring it right this end of the year, and then there's six little years of these two governments of Andrej Plenkovic, and when I think of some time ago, we've been through and then the crisis periods, we remember in 2009, in '10, '11, and so until '15. those financial crises, the global crisis we're almost 7 years from now. We should come to a certain right direction or a proper path, so when we see what hit us all in these six years, I think it's clearly drawn out and see that this government still has a lot of professional people, people who know and can fight for the improvement of their citizens in every way and in every way and I think that if we look at those 6. Practically, except for 2019. which was the only one without some major crises or some crisis situations we haven't had a single year in which you could plan and bring a budget, and then implement it without a lot of rebalancing or a lot of repairs. Let us remember 2017. Agrokora, then 2018 shipbuilding with all its problems, fires, floods, national security, then 2019 well, pa 2020, 25.2. first case of pandemic i.e. Virus in the Republic of Croatia, then 2. And those 45 billion that some are just so easy to see here as a cost that should have been settled to preserve jobs, to preserve our employers' business, that the state can still pay higher pensions, bigger salaries, and that we can sort of end this story, so we hoped that this year we would end this story, 24.2. the new problem appeared to us, but near us, Russia's aggression to Ukraine and automatically as a chain in some way completely broke everything. When I remember our debate when we were bringing this budget, we brought it in last year 8.12 with 77 votes in favour and 49 against we really had great expectations since 2022. and no one in my head thought I had a situation that would happen only two months after that, or in my mind, unfortunately what happened happened and we see a reaction from the government that was both timely and good to me. First of all, when we talk about energy, we really did everything through this 5 billion package that is now being implemented in this rebalancing to help everyone to sort out and that part is the least painful of what might happen to us, and then again, there are new costs, we have refugees in the space of the Republic, we have all the other problems that need to be solved, and they're still being transmitted, I say we haven't finished the story with the pandemic, we still have some expenditure that will probably take us a while, but when we look at the numbers, I think we can say that they are positive, indeed, from year to year from 2016. Every year that growth was higher, last year in a year we managed to return from -8.1 from 2020 to +10.2 in the last year and simply from time to time you see a government that is really trying to solve what is worrying us all, and these are fears that have arisen, so I will say at sea with us without tourism, etc. And they still haven't stopped and we don't know what's going on for the next month and what's going to happen tomorrow and after here's the entry of Sweden and Finland into NATO or some other situation, no one can know or predict it, but we're here to do or plan what we think will happen. I think what happened to the increase in income, but also the expenditure that will be based on the implementation of the budget at the end of the year, and I expect it to be at least at the level of 2021 when we have actually achieved better results in revenue, less results in those expenditures and that it will be And this year, and I think we're all gonna get better. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110184	We have more replicas, she is the real respected representative Pocrnic-Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110185	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Boric. You said that some people understand the government's efforts and that our opposition really criticises the government, and that's their job, and it also criticises when it helps citizens and when it responds to difficult emergency situations, when it reduces VAT, when it subsidises energy prices, when it raises pensions and minimal beaches, when it helps entrepreneurs. Hypothetically, if it hadn't been for all these government measures aimed at maintaining the standards of citizens and the economy, what would the situation in the country have then? Would citizens be in a difficult position or do you think it would be different? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110186	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110187	Thank you very much. So I think if I were to mention this 45 billion if it had been rerouted to anything other than the costs caused by the pandemic, we'd probably all have a slightly higher salary, probably even bigger pensions, but we'd probably have some other situations, but we'd certainly have some space that was created in 2016-2020 and where the budgets ended at the end and in surpluses, but what happened and what happened to these things just as a global one we can't affect ourselves except that we can take care of them. And I think we're doing it well, that we've done everything we can to raise wages through tax reform, but especially in the public sector. I'm going to mention 18.3% in the past time plus 4% agreed on this year that's 22% increase just when we're talking about basics plus what happened through tax reforms, we can certainly conclude that these salaries that some are talking about this kind of underestimation have increased between 25 and 40% depending on the situation, but I think we did what the state can do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110188	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A fellow Boris here at the beginning of your individual debate you mentioned last Friday and an attempt to resist the disbanding of HS, so I would say that the football jargon team entered a pre-lost match, scored a few auto goals, but even in the end it didn't have enough players for the game and the Croatian public saw it. However, equally important if not most importantly what experts and institutions are seeing are dealing with such things if today we are talking about public finances and the macro-political Republic of Croatia that the Republic of Croatia currently has the highest credit rating in its history with positive prospects, that the European Commission praises the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the 34 reforms it has made in the past few years, that we are therefore receiving millions and billions of euros from the EU to recognise the stability of public finances and to recognise both the stability of both the Croatian Government and the HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110190	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110191	Thank you very much. I think that the time of entry into the EU here is what I think some good course has experienced in these last few years where we see all the benefits of it, as much as we suspected of this project of what we need or are looking for, I think we see what's happening now. And when we compare the budgets, the last budgets of 2015 and today's budgets are talking about although the methodologies are slightly different almost 50 billion kunas more in revenue, of course and expenditures are growing, but some possibilities are more and I think these two governments are getting along a little bit, especially this finance minister they were also trying to replace, but I think that ultimately the figures show everything and that the citizens see what's going on. Of course there are dissatisfied, but the state does what it can even though it's expected to be more than a mother or more than a mother, but it just doesn't work sometimes. I think there's a responsibility on us, and I'm all here to make these results better than we've got right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110192	Thank you. Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110193	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. You mentioned how some MPs demean, in fact, everything the government has done this time. They mention that this VAT that's down and it's not something, so you see what inflation is, etc. and what is disastrous about everything is said, and they do not say that what happened with the VAT reduction has actually mitigated the impact of inflation, or that inflation would be much larger and two-digit as it is in the more developed EU countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110194	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110195	Thank you very much, colleague. So I think we've all voted for changes and additions to the VAT Act so that they didn't say whether prices should have been lower, everyone would have liked to have lower prices, especially I don't know some things that really needed to be reduced, they are what they are today. And it's hard with those who sell the i.e. For traders to come to convince him that he should now give up some of his intentions and that we order him to do something in this system or state where we live. I don't think it's up to us to think we should always do the maximum, but in the state it's that that's what you can do. So we went with a five-billion-dollar package to help those who are the weakest to help them out as much as possible, of course you can't pay each bill in full, but... some certain differences yes. Now, it's up to us to keep working on salaries, on pensions, that people really get what they need so they can carry the burden of what happened, and it wasn't just up to us, absolutely. At... a moment nothing about us. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110196	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110197	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'll fight my friend. And despite all of these five years back when we say catastrophic years, everything the government had to do to enable some kind of normal functioning, I can only say that the investments didn't stop and that the real government and all the resolution ministries made an effort to invest in all the municipalities and cities, the counties sort of run normally, they built kindergartens, schools, business zones opened up. So imagine if it wasn't for those crises, everything would have been. Obviously this has to be repeated because the real picture as our colleagues in the opposition say, the situation is really not quite as chaotic as they represent it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110198	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110199	Thank you very much. My fellow Members, I think that we have well absorbed this part of the special local leaders in all order, and I think that today's competitions are going neatly that EU funds that are primarily going to that part and segment of the infrastructure of transport, municipal, social, are really doing well. I think it's worth mentioning what we've last come up with. The last public call that goes with exactly a billion and 200 million kunas towards the rebuilding of the necessary facilities in kindergartens, waiting for us another 800 million kuna. I think everyone can find at least part of their needs in some way, of course they'll have to provide for themselves, but it's important that they want and the possibility that the state gives you. I think the state always creates this space and we understand everyone who criticises us that hospitals don't pay debts, here's two billion to make up for that moment. The medications are over, according to HZZO, it's going over a billion and a half extra. I think it'll do what it can, but it's got a magic wand and it solves everything so everyone's most pleased we won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110200	Thank you. The Honorable Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110201	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague. So surely the state budget can be compared in some way to our family budget, within the family we often have times to look for these or those levels, but whoever is most responsible knows what is possible at that time, which is more important, and I would say that exactly in these times when we are here, as I would never say in the last year and a half threatened by these many threats, that I don't mention them now, but we all know exactly what this is about. However, there is still one social sensitivity, while keeping in mind that the budget, with the best wishes, and I do not often doubt the good intentions and the opposition colleagues themselves, but simply blow up the budget, we will bring ourselves into a situation so that we can eventually make our credit rating less quality than it is right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110202	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110203	Thank you very much. I think that through salary policy or tax policy we have clearly shown what we want, here I will give the data meaning today average salary 2008-2012 plus 495 kuna, 2012-2015 minus 83 I am talking about net average salary, 2016-2022. plus 1.824 kuna, I think this data clearly indicates what we are looking for and what we want. I see that in Zagreb this salary is safe and much higher when we talk about the average salary, not to talk further about what seemed to be a minimum wage. Let's remember 2016. 2,496 kuna, now it's 3,750 after six years it'll probably be bigger in the next year, hopefully we'll find a way to make it happen. And what I want to say first is to thank these people who work at the Ministry of Finance, I think they're doing a good job, they show it's a number of polls, they show it's also the charts on which we climb especially the grades of those who judge us independently about... politics we ourselves or in a different way. That's the way to go. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110204	Now she will speak to a respected representative, Mirela Ahmetovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110205	Dear Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. First of all, I regret that Minister Maric is not present here, although I am even more sorry that there are no other ministers and resolution ministers who are actually doing this rebalancing. Last year when we were making a budget for 2022. I argued that the budget was not realistic, but at that time it was more than 10.8 billion kuna in revenues compared to the last rebalancing in 2021. The expenditures were set at almost the same level at which in 2021 they were shown only half a billion more. And then I claimed and claimed today that such a budget was actually the one that was set because the figures had to be adjusted to meet the Mastric criteria and Croatia's entry into the euro zone. Today we admit that we were right all of us who claimed that the budget was planned for 2022. Unreal. Here we are now raising it in revenue for an additional 6.6 billion kuna, so a total of 16.8 billion kunas more revenue than in 2021. and expenditure of 9.2 billion kuna and 9.7 billion more than in 2021. Tax revenue growth in the first plan for the year '22. compared to '21. of 5.7 billion was justified by GDP growth of 4.4%. Now GDP growth is adjusted to 3% lower, so as much as 1.4 percent lower, and tax revenues continue to rise by an additional 3.18 billion kuna, i.e. now by 8.9 billion kuna compared to '21, and there is no justification for GDP growth, as was our justification when we planned that first budget, so GDP is falling. Let's be honest, the reason for the growth in tax revenues is the inflation that we all know the state's profits. Here Minister Maric and many speakers from the ruling majority explained Russia's inflation of aggression in Ukraine, and we forgot that we were already in September 2021. Warned about a leap in inflation. So we had 2.8 inflation back in December of '21. Inflation reached 5.5% compared to the same month 2020. At the time, Minister Coric laughed at my current question about what the government would do about jumping into actual inflation rates. The Russian invasion of Ukraine began at the end of February, but inflation had already reached 5.7% in January compared to the same month before, at an average annual base of 3.1%. So, Russia's aggression on Ukraine has only pushed the inflationary pressure they warned about and who saw everyone except the government of the Republic of Macedonia, and I remind them once again it was funny, they thought it was funny. As far as expenditure is concerned, when the minister wrote a budget for 2022, the biggest savings were written in health care for about 5 to 6 billion kuna compared to '21. That's when I said he didn't believe in a budget that he had to defend. And I know that the minister may have left now because he's embarrassed because he knows and he knew and then I was and I'm right. The worst part is that Minister Beros and other prime ministers of the government of the Republic of Croatia, so these other resolution ministers actually did it to make Minister Maric uncomfortable. Since the promised reform, especially in health and health care, health debts towards wholesales and pharmacies are growing 400 to 500 million kuna per month, and if the reason for this were more accessible, more accessible, a better quality service then I would somehow understand that incurring with a few billion. But no, we saw what Berosh thinks of the availability of health services on this tragic case of Mrs. Chawide. But you know what's missing? I miss that show that Maric likes to realize and tell Beros, but this time I'm still digging holes, and you can't do any more reform. Here's the last five months, so there's no anger, even Maric admits okay now, let's not get mad because there's nothing left to represent as some kind of anger but I'm going to patch that hole up because I have to. And the energy not to forget. Gas security is planned with a symbolic 75 million kuna, of course they only opened an item because it will all go through HEP. I remind and warn the minister that he has already provided guarantees to HEP of 2.5 billion kuna for the provision of liquidity because HEP paid Russian gas to a private company in advance of the contract. Will Minister Maric defend himself for not knowing?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110206	The Republic has a respected representative named Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110207	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, so you were actually talking about a real, real picture of the health budget, so it seems to me that yesterday on the Finance Committee is up to one sentence when he did it. Tica, an external member of the Committee on Finance, asked the minister about, precisely around this part of the health costs, if the minister had actually said one moment of truth again, you would have put it in other words, it proved through this replica that he expected reform from counterpart Berosa if he had expected reform from counterpart Beros. What my colleague Beros announced was that this reform is already at the prime minister's table, standing there in the Prime Minister's drawer, and today he is not here to answer us, to tell us clearly what's going on. Are we not asking anyone... Instead of telling us what's going on and why it's 500 million dollars in debt today if there's no Covid, and during Covid, there was 200 million in debt at the monthly level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just to get some answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110208	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110209	Dear MP, and would not even believe that Minister Maric expected Minister Berosa's reform, he simply had to save somewhere when planning a 2022 budget to meet those figures that require conditions of entry into the eurozone. And the only place in health care was to show that the debts would be lower and that it would be justified by the expected reform. However, what is today is that already now, there are already 3 billion kunas missing for healthcare that are not shown in this budget, and Minister Maric knows very well that during the next one, the first one of the next budget rebalances must be installed by the additional 3 billion kunas. So, what bothers me, of course Minister Maric will simply figure out the figures as the resolution ministers tell him, and now they're hiding, so there's not one in sight because they're not doing anything. In fact, they are looking at where they will go to another position as Minister Ćoric went, or that Minister Ćoric will go, but what bothers me so let's not lie to the Croatian public. So there's still 3 billion kuna in health care, so write 3 billion kunas in health care, and write 3 billion kunas. write that deficit. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110210	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110211	Thank you very much. This rebalance goes into one category already seen. The Commission for Fiscal Policy more or less every time that the same recommendations, health reform, reform of the pension system, none of this is happening. How realistic it is to expect, in these last two years, that any of this will be, in my opinion, a very optimistic version. But what's a little bit of a concern is that the level of public debt, but in the nominal amount that is growing rapidly and which this year needs to rise by 16 billion, last year has increased by 13 billion and has been accelerating since 2019. So that's something that everyone should be wondering where that border is, how long it's gonna go like that because it's the duties that someone's gonna have to pay back, our kids, our grandkids. Do we even have the right to leave them so much debt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110212	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110213	Yes, thank you very much, so here we have heard countless times in the debates that it is good for our incomes to grow. I'm still surprised that someone is so easily relying on tourism revenues and constantly on personal consumption revenues even though we're doing well for now. But what's sad is that compared to the growth of income, it grows rapidly and costs. And it is not those expenditures that allow for a better quality, better quality and better life for our citizens but the expenditures that serve to patch up budget gaps that are due to the lack of reforms. And you've made a good conclusion, so what's actually sad is that nobody's looking back on the fact that these reforms don't exist. No one looks back to the fact that nothing has changed in health care. So, that debt to large drugstores and pharmacies, the actual debt is the same as it was a year before we talked about budget rebalancing for 2021. So nothing moves, public debt grows, how much longer will it grow It's only a matter of time until it cracks. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110214	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110215	Dear MPs, therefore, the energy intensive industry certainly needs new subsidies. So we know that gas subsidies have been given, but for electricity that has increased three times and subsidies have lagged. Do you think with new electricity subsidies, we can encourage that industry to stay alive?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110216	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110217	Thank you very much. That is, while some of the HDZ deputies here have debated in the direction that we have criticised the measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I must remind them that we have not criticised them because these measures are in large part equal to those proposed by the SDP, even the amount of measures has coincided with around 5 billion kuna. What is missing is, in fact, the incentive to help entrepreneurs, or the economy in particular, with regard to these energy problems. What is interesting to me in the budget or budget rebalancing is that I foresee a reduction of deficits in local self-government units that are as much as the economy and households under pressure from energy growth, energy cost growth, under the pressure of labour costs, so projects that are realised and I don't understand who it is and based on which I calculated that units of local self-government will reduce their deficits.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110218	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110219	Thank you very much. You spoke to counterpart Ahmetovic about the meaning of the Ministry of Finance setting up certain situations and not showing the costs and actually giving false budgets because then the budget rebalancing, etc. Here you are, as head of local self-government in Omislje in 2020, having two rebalancings in 2021, is this evidence that you are also setting certain results so that at the amount of 35 million kuna and here at 170 we compare? I don't think anybody does, so we've really been through two years that have been burdened with pandemics and suspenses like this one right now. I don't know what's waiting for us in the tourist season, do you know? I think there are good announcements. What's gonna happen, I don't know, what's gonna happen in a month. I think saying so is not right about people who really care that this system works and that it is transparent and that you see everything that needs to be seen in it regardless of what we are politically speaking here. So you wouldn't give it lightly if someone were deliberately hiding something, so they'd show at the end of the year. I think the results and the results and the performances show that the results are much better even for what we project ourselves and we vote here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110220	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110221	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Boric. I'm so glad you said this, remember you were present when I discussed the budget plan for '22. And I told Minister Maric and you that I'm sure you don't even know what you're discussing or how much the budget is, so you remember that comment I made. Remember also in a few months when we talk about the second budget rebalancing and when we will raise expenditures in health care because they are not shown today in an additional amount of 3 billion kunas, so the debts of wholesale drugs and pharmacies. As far as my budget rebalances are concerned, and I'm very glad that you mentioned it, you see, unlike the state you compare me with, thank you very much, in my local self-government unit, there's not a single one, no one swears, no debt, no unpaid bills, and my rebalancings are always higher because of higher incomes, not because of the higher incomes, and not because I have to pick up someone else's money. Especially your own holes. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110222	Thank you. Honorable representative, please not from the bench, respected representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110223	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Ahmetovic. When we're talking about how you're talking about how you're hairing books to say no, but I think that's not some unusual practice, but the point is that it would be fairer politically then say, you know what people are like and that kind of thing, we have a euro that's kind of our goal, we had a crisis, we had a pandemic, you know what health reform just won't work. It won't go now, we'll see what happens from the other two years or the last year, if we succeed, but it's much more important simply that we realize that some of the goals that we had at the beginning of the mandate when we put this budget together and we proposed simply we won't be able to realize it, whether we can get some kind of support for it or not. So, but it's not happening and it's their huge problem. So they're like folk open to criticism, but actually every criticism they refuse and that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110224	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So look here neither I nor anyone else before me has actually slowed down the simple duty of Minister Maric and the situation in which he was put in that he has to free up the data or he has to find a way to patch up other people's holes, we're talking about the holes of resolution ministers who are in charge of the resolutions for which some reforms have to be carried out in order for their resolutions to function more effectively, of course at a minimum cost. What's problematic is that none of them, as we can see, have anything to show or say. It's not just health care, it's public administration, there's no public administration reform. It is said that in the public sector, 4% is paid, and we welcome it, although it should be raised, but the productivity of the public administration or the public sector has not risen. And why didn't she get up? Because there is no public sector reform. Here's to not just staying in health care, and health care is the biggest polygon actually the ability to display savings and then later patch holes because no one's going to say Don't give health care. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110226	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110227	My colleagues Ahmetovic and through debates on LNG and in a number of other topics, you have discussed Croatia's energy policy a great deal. What I think we can agree is that we do not have energy policy and that we are in a situation where our oil goes to Hungary and then Orban returns it to us and resells it, and in Hungary, ohohoho prices are lower than the fuel prices that are a very important item in these purchases in Croatia. What do you think on the other hand about pension funds and government kickings watching what happens to Forten mainly with that part of Forten's agricultural business in Slavonia where it turns out that Croatia has no interest in it, that we have no interest in being self-sufficient in agricultural production but turns out to be allowed to take over Hungarians as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110228	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110229	The country's independence is based on three pillars, which is an energy, food and banking pillar, I would say a financial pillar. In all three areas, Croatia has shown that it is not independent. Unfortunately, the energy sector has long been handed over to the Hungarians, you have made a good point, of course our crude oil based on a secret agreement signed by Minister Ćoric, so today former thanks to Minister Ćoric is committed to the Hungarian refineries to work, and ours is being shut down and to make Hungarians cheaper in the rest and drive. As far as the food sector is concerned, you've seen Hungarians have managed to surround our food sector, occupy even agricultural space, it's a concrete area of the Republic of Croatia, and here they are slowly entering the banking sector, you will see that in a year we will also talk about the domination of Hungarian capital in banking.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110230	Thank you. The next one will speak to the respected representative Vesna Vucilovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110231	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Already eminent economic experts say that inflation has taken control and we are slowly entering that inflation spiral which is not good at all because we have a new element, which is these inflationary expectations, price hikes to make extra profits, and at that all raise prices, so let's go and then we also actually have state-owned companies that are raising prices, and then the state should help those who are socially at risk and we start slowly spinning in this vicious circle of price and social transfers that are in the conditions of inflation growth extremely dangerous. There is still room for certain new elements to be introduced on this income thing. So Croatia is from a tax on property that, which cannot be proved to be the origin of origin, is harvested in the 5th year. less than you collect in a month from the penalty for traffic violations. Now, I would very much like to say that the IRS is so thorough about combing the origin of the property and charging 60% of the tax on that property that cannot be proven to be of origin, as it combs those who are cobwebs, who have moved on with their belly after bread, etc., but unfortunately, we don't see too much of it right now because these 35 million kunas are as charged in the 5th year. is indeed a minor item. In this individual debate, it would also refer to a few specific items. In particular, in the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, we have long heard about the Renaissance of the Croatian Railways and will reportedly be transported to the 21st century by our railway station from the time of Austro-Hungarian. But if it is judged by this rebalancing, that renaissance will last about how long that real Renaissance lasted, and it lasted for the whole 15th century, and in 16 it spread to all of Europe because of these 8 years. Definitely won't be enough. And what brings me to this conclusion? So here is a concrete item relating to the reconstruction of the existing and the construction of the second colossium of the shares Hrvatski Leskovac-Karlovac is again reduced by 200 million kuna, otherwise it is funded by European funds, but something is wrong, it seems to me that the public procurement has been cancelled again. The same item in the budget relating to co-financing of the production of study and project documentation is also reduced. Construction and reconstruction of the railway Long Village-Križevci is perhaps the best example of what it looks like in Croatia because in this case we are not even able to spend the money Europe literally gives us and now the last deadline of completion of the works has been moved to the middle of 2023. which is 3.5.g. After the deadline, but that deadline is also under question and the question is whether it will be respected, and if it is not respected, then we will have to finance it again together from the state budget because Europe somehow does not like it when we break those deadlines and do not respect them. It's just that it took more than a year to get a location permit for that stock, so it turns out that the state is blocking itself and it's no wonder that we have, that we have to beg for certain deadlines to be extended to the European Commission. The shares also mean Hrvatski Leskovac-Karlovac 44 km long, the tender is announced on September 7, 2020, more than a year and a half ago, due to complaints is being re-longed, due to complaints we will obviously not spend this money, and ultimately the price of the increase, estimated value of the works of two billion kunas every day, and then we must really ask ourselves whether these figures are what they really are or we can expect some more items since we are not able and we are not able to spend this European money literally given to us within the deadlines set.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110232	Thank you. We have a replica of the respected representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110233	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues, I'm extremely glad you've opened the subject of the railroad. The budget is or rebalance of the budget is one unfortunate thing. On the one hand, you can also talk through public space about the renaissance of railways and about the need and the importance of railways, and we can also talk about how important it is, how important it is, how important some other countries are, how important it is for Croatia to engage in some other streams and then come into the budget and see the figures and then you really see that we don't count for decades or 10 years. much longer. And that's what actually on one side of the depression, that's who in that joke woman do you trust more with your eyes or my words and often when we get the law, I was one of those who's a big fan of railroads and I think that might be a big step but then when you get to the budget or the rebalancing then you see there's no hope.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110234	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110235	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrak Taritaš I am also a big fan of railways and I live in Slavonia and Baranja who is really crying out for the reconstruction of the railway track and then somehow always pay a little more attention to those items and I am always disappointed again and again. The team is more really unclear why this is happening, why it takes so long and when you read the explanation of HH Infrastructure why some money didn't spend, so they say there was a crown so they couldn't. So in that same crown, in that same epidemic, construction works and this entire sector has registered growth only HZ Infrastructure was unable to work on fresh air outside and spend the money Europe really gives us because it is part of that green plan and what is climate-friendly. But why so, there should be Minister Butkovic there to give us those answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110236	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110237	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My dear representative of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, I will focus on health care. Let me remind you first that Prime Minister Plenkovic when we discussed the 2022 budget. 1.12 said, I quote, when I asked him if, in response to his replica, he said, when it comes to reforming the health system Minister Beros has the task of ensuring the self-sufficiency of the public health budget, the means available to cover the costs of effective care for the health of citizens, which means the availability and quality and optimal application of limited resources and transparency in spending resources and the uniformity of health care standards, completed the quote. And what does that mean? So we're going to cover how much of the debt is, and yet on the other hand, we should, in fact, tell our citizens and all the employees in the health system, which is what's waiting for us, or what's the current situation. Minister Maric then said the key to success and sustainability is on the spending side. And then we had to tell her about the 2022 plan that we should have expenses this year and so it was planned that 6.5 billion kunas were smaller than those in the rebalancing in 2021. This was related to the planned downturn in business expenditure, material expenditure, budget assistance, and then we all wonder together how realistic it is that even the pandemic has not yet ended, we have no reform in sight, and the budget is actually planned, assuming that there will be no such costs in terms of the health system or support system for employees and entrepreneurs. And then what numbers we had or what we had. So, for the Ministry of Health, 6.4 billion kunas were planned in relation to rebalancing at 2022, and now with this rebalancing we have a return plus 4.3 billion kuna. So it wasn't enough. Then HZZO total income, it was reduced by 2 billion kuna this year, and now they saw that it wasn't enough, so there's plus 2.5 billion kuna, of which one billion from the contribution of 1.5 billion from the state budget, and HZZO total expenditures were cut by 2.4 million kuna, but now increased by 1 billion kuna. So it's a bad plan. For health care, therefore, 3.5 billion kuna is foreseen and 2 billion kuna for the debt of large-scale drugs and this 1.5 billion kuna for HZZO. The data, however, is what the majors have already said in recent months that it should pay 3.8 billion kuna to stabilise as much as possible. Now there's two billion kuna planned, so we're wondering how it's gonna go? I didn’t receive a long hospital, a fresher than 30.4. I didn’t even get on the board today, so from 30.4. for hospitals 4 billion kuna, and 1.5 billion dollars for pharmacies, respectively, totaled 2.1 billion kuna. And say total health debts totalled 2.9 billion kuna. And let's remember the 2021 health care year 32 billion kuna plus what 41 billion kunas were added. So then we're wondering how we're going to go on and when we're actually going to finally plan the budget? And now that we're going to look at the details of the HZZO budget, of course, the funds are now increased for primary health care, prescription medications, hospital health care, specialist consular, especially expensive medicines. It was known that for the last year, it was 2.5 billion kuna and that the constant cost of growth was planned, but 2 billion 300 were planned and, of course, now, 200 million kuna is fortunate to be that 2.5 billion kuna. And for the rest of the health care, the treatment of ino-osguarantee, the administration of compulsory health insurance. However, what I do not like personally is that as health workers, means orthopaedic devices and helped others do the same. I have to remind again that HZZO is saving by banging patients in the pocket, so then it reduces the number of strips to anyone who doesn't have an injectable insulin therapy without asking all the professional societies. Then the information of the health system remains the same and should seek to increase information. Then for health tourism the same means, and yet we would seek to strengthen health tourism. Another item of the eye has really been going on for a year and a half, I've been working really hard, and I finally caught this one not that I caught but they gave me finally valid data, these are health interns, and I'm going to ask it with an amendment to take on those certain items that I finally got today the data to succeed. provide funds. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110238	We have a replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110239	I've spoken here several times in my free speeches and in the name of the club about health problems. And it's not just debts to large-scale drugs, it's also debts to hospitals and HZZOs and debts made to other suppliers. However, no one has responded to this, nor is it responding to it now, and it is not taken into account. When we talked about last year that it was too little planned for health care in the budget everyone said it was okay, especially ruling the budget was ideal, wonderful and wonderful. However, our hospitals are still in debt, our hospitals are hard to operate, I can't provide all the services our patients need. You're coming from the hospital in Čakovec do you know how long your hospital is right now and how much it's holding it back and causing problems for your work?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110240	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110241	So most of our county general hospitals are really barely clothed because most of the budget limit goes to pay so I know the information that out of the 158 million kunas that went to last year 1050 million kunas went to pay. For the drugs I don't have, I know it was at the end of the year, since I'm a councilwoman in the county assembly I know it was 31.12. 15 million kunas total debt for drugs, and for these blood derivatives, materials, 16 million kunas. Now, as much as there's still some money coming to the rescue, I don't know, I'm saying I know that information about 31.12.200, and all together, because you don't have enough resources, you don't get what you're actually providing the patient with, so that's what the bigotry of the health system that you and I are talking about, and in fact we're all talking about. I think the debts are now about 77 million kuna, and they were 2020. 72 million So it's not a good situation. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110242	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110243	Dear colleagues. Actually, it seems to me that I always see myself in a circle with these budgets and budget rebalances, and we come up with the fact that we spend the most on health care we feel like we're getting into a black hole. The minister comes in here mad at the other minister, he also says we need to make a reform, I mean, what's the way out of this or did we fall into some amazing story? I mean, do we need a new minister, a new government, or do we have some unaccounted for solutions that we can run now to actually get out of this vicious circle? I can't believe what we're having all these discussions, like we all know what to do, and why we don't, I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110244	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110245	We all know what to do, but it's not being implemented, and the one that's currently running is the government and the current minister, and then you figure it out yourself. So we don't expect a complete reform of the health system to be made in the next two months, but some settings must already be visible and presented. We on the Health Committee are not able to get all the data, as you would now be discussing no. So who's going to argue? So what you're saying is we're always spinning up a little bit, a little bit of anticipating some resources, and then we rebalance it up, and then we cut it down for the next year, and then we rebalance it again. I mean, now I don't know how many, 29 rehabs or how many, so it takes a meaningful policy that's obviously not being implemented at the moment, and we've been giving solutions and we're always talking about certain items, so we're not being listened to from the opposition, and neither is the professional association, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110246	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Urša Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110247	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Since the defence of the amendment in this assembly has become a mere formality because one or no representative or representative of the ruling majority who already has predetermined that they will vote against all amendments to the opposition regardless of the content, I will take advantage of this possibility and will now explain one of our amendments to the budget rebalancing. So within the position of A565010 Programmes for the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Heritage, we propose to open a new item of restoration of Croatian classic feature films on the cellolide strip of 15 million kuna with the following explanation. If it continues at the rate of two films a year, we will surely experience the complete destruction of valuable Croatian film heritage. We are witnessing the public appeals of Croatian film authors for years from Krsta Papić just before his death to Rajko Grlic this fall without a clear response from the ruling in terms of concrete action of acceleration and expansion of the parts for restoration. An emergency restoration is needed so that the restored films can be digitized. It should be stressed that all the countries in the environment, the EU countries at all, have not spoken, restored and protected their film fund, only Croatia has not. It's high time for immediate access to restoration so we don't lose our valuable film heritage. Now, about this burning problem and cultural... I've spoken many times in free speech, unfortunately there's no echo. I hope and believe that all of us therefore and the ruling and opposition should care about Croatian film heritage as well as the entire heritage. I don't see any possibility of sharing on the right or on the left, the only thing that is normal, and I would say with honor that we stand up for the Croatian heritage in this particular case for Croatian film heritage. I no longer know how and how to explain that this heritage will simply disappear, irrevocably disappear. The chemical processes are inexorable and will be erased by Fabian Šovagovic, Relja Bašić, Ana Karic, Bozidarko Frajt, Ivica Vidovic, Mustafa Nadarević, Boris Dvornik will disappear forever the works of Branko Bauer, Vatroslav Mimica, Zvonimir Berkovic, Lordan Zafranovic, Nikola Tanhofer, I do not know Kresa Golik. So are we really so irresponsible all of us here or are we really so uninterested in culture that we will allow it, all of us, all of us, and the ruling and opposition headed by the Minister of Culture Nina Obulen Koržinek? We will all be responsible and guilty of this outrageous culture. Rajko Grlic also published a third letter to the culture minister reminding her that during the preface of the National Programme for Promotion of Audiovisual Creation in 2017 and 2021 she signed this, special attention in the coming period should be paid to the preservation of restoration, digitalisation, availability and promotion of Croatian audiovisual heritage as an extremely valuable cultural heritage and an unforgiving segment of Croatian cultural identity. In those 4 years. Only 8 films were digitized and restored in Croatia, 32 were restored in Skopje during the time, 28 in Serbia, and each of these films had its premiere to celebrate a new life. Since the first Grlic's letter, seven months have passed, during which time not one centimeter of films has been restored, not one. Minister Obuljen Koržinek can't hear us, so please Minister Marić, I really ask you to adopt our amendment to save Croatian classical film, time passes, chemical processes do their part and soon believe me there will be nothing to restore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110248	He has one replica of the respected Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110249	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Raukar, that it is completely unclear actually why is it despite repeated insistence and warnings on this side of the assembly why is it not put some priority on this matter? I think Minister Maric, you can ask him to accept the amendment, but ultimately Minister Oblisen Koržinek should make a decision about it, so I wouldn't put excessive hopes into it, but of course let's stay this one open for surprises, it would be really nice, because as you said what you're talking about is not a question of some political world-classer at all, let's say, it's a matter of relation to some kind of heritage that isn't, which shouldn't be the subject of a prior rejection just because it comes from another assembly, and it's not so expensive sport in view of the budget of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110250	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110251	Yeah, I don't know, I don't know what, I don't know what to explain and I don't know how to explain it, I don't know how to explain it, I don't know what to do, I don't even care, I don't know if you understand that Croatian film heritage is really going to disappear, gone, I don't know, tell me, teach me who to go to, who to ask, what to do, so I don't know if you can imagine that Tin Ujević's songs are gone, there are no more, Vidovic pictures gone, so it's our people's movie, so there's no right and left, so I don't know, I't speak out of despair, that and maybe I'm funny to you. But please all do something together, make sure that Croatian classic film doesn't disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110252	Next individual debate respected Ivana Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ministers, assistants, MPs. I haven't been in the assembly very long, but I quickly caught some persistent practices that repeat at least three times a year and concern, of course, the eternal question of how much health costs us. We're always looking at the same play, firstly to bring in an unreal budget, this is the last one that decreases last year by as many as 6.4 billion kunas without argument because the reform is not in sight, supported only by unfounded unrealistic optimism and then squeezes and drastically deepens the health budget on the first one. The same scenario awaits us for sure in the next rebalancing, the opposition all day long calls for reason, rationality, reform, alleged reform calls for and Minister Maric, reportedly for the cheerleading reform and Prime Minister Plenkovic, reportedly has a ready-made minister, Beros, but there is no reform. So, how come, where does that leak our money and why is there no reform? I suggest we have some fun with an example from which things might become a little bit clearer. In the past 14 years. HZZO paid more than a billion kuna by decision of the Ministry of Health to the private Poliklinium Medikol. The vast majority of these amounts refer to PET/CT tests, therefore incredibly important tests in the diagnostics and treatment of cancer diseases. It's important to say that it's been in those last 14 years. in which we have cashed out a billion kunas of only one PET/CT device, of course not during any HDZ government, but during the SDP government on the Rebr. The other 4 devices that exist in Croatia are Medikola. Let's not stay on abstract level, the owner of the Medikol, to remind ourselves who they are, are spouses from Čakovec, Mrs. Ivanka Trstenjak Rajković Doctor of General Practice and her husband Ivan Trstenjak, former taxi driver and caterer, completely unknown and narrow medical circles, let alone wider, together with their newly established clinic in 2007 sign a contract of hundreds of millions of kuna, a fully monopoly contract that allows them the Sanader government and then Minister Neven Ljubicic. At the same time, doctors from KBC are looking for a minister to buy PET/CT, but the minister says they can ask for anything just so they can't ask for PET/CT. 2011 for the first time begins writing about the Medikol affair and the monopoly that the government has made possible the private polyclinic which Croatian citizens so luxuriously reward. Slavica Lukic, at a press conference held by then Minister Milinovic, we are in the health care room with ministers and HZZO chief Strezrep, asks why the data on how much the state pays Medikol, does not get an answer, but 10 minutes after she is invited to the cabinet ministers to talk where Minister Milinović, HZZO head Strizrep and KBC chief, our knight Reiner, who is unfortunately not here. There they explain to her that unfortunately they can't publish the amounts the state pays off to Medikol because that's the secret information. We're talking hundreds of millions of public money from Croatian citizens. Today, we know because HZZO still had to provide data that in 2010 and 2011, when I talk about these affairs, the Medikol was paid in just 2 years 220 million kuna, 220 reasons for silence. Right? After the arrival of the SDP to the authorities and purchases of a PET/CT device, the amount to be paid to the Medici is clearly reduced from year to year, but in vain because in 2016 HDZ comes to power again and guess what happens. The amount grows again by some miracle. So, Kujundzic, another of our impressive health ministers announced in late 2019 the purchase of 4 PET/CT devices that would fully meet our needs and cost you a guess of how many 60 million kunas. 60 million kunas to meet all needs of Croatian citizens, a billion kunas we have paid for this service to Medikol. However, Kujundzic's deadline is running out, he is being squeezed by affairs, Beroš is coming, while Medikol is getting new devices that I find it difficult to assume that they would enter such an investment without being aware that they will continue to do business with the state. Since Minister Berosha received almost 160 million kunas from us, it has been announced that it continues to grow, about PET/CT gets no letters. That's how money is spent when rebalancing into HZZO. In the long run, we can only conclude that neither a representative nor a saleswoman, nor a worker, nor a housewife will be healthy. So what do we do now, Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110254	The first replica, respected Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110255	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, it is good that you reminded yourself of all these horrors and these affairs that we hear from day to day specifically and of the purchases of PET/CT devices, so the Medikol owners are from Čakovec, but I am really ashamed of this situation, but people are using clearly what they give them, so it is obviously not only on them, but actually more on ministers that make it possible. Of course, there are these affairs that we've been following about the intra-operal radiation device, and things like that should be talked about even if the minister and the ministry aren't wrong about it, so let him say who's to blame. And some people who have dirtyed up about this overpaid device, let's say, specifically for the intraoperative radiation we've been reading about, let them match. The item that may make you happy but won't save us is an increase in the amount of treatment according to the special regulations of the psychiatric hospital. It's probably like a psychiatrist was seen in the budget, but with this we're listening to everything and what we're witnessing from day to day I don't think that's gonna happen to us either. how to cheer up. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110256	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110257	Thank you. Thank you for your comment. Yeah, I mean how do I say it's a drop in the sea and still doesn't change the paradigm we're running here. I think that ultimately responsibility always goes to the minister regardless of why he is in charge and responsible, and here we see that there is one multi-year practice of the ministry where it is I will remind you when there is a recent question about this, about this cooperation, so to speak between the Medikol and the state, has received a reply from the Ministry of Health that all advanced states have so used public private partnerships to provide the best possible service to their citizens. I will repeat, the billion kuna of Medikol, 60 million kuna of four PET/CT devices that are enough with this one on Rebra which, I repeat, he did not get HDZ to meet all needs of cancer patients in Croatia, 20 times the difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110258	The next replica honors Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110259	Here, esteemed fellow I cannot believe that you insinuate that some corruption actually makes you leak money in health care. It's absolutely not to believe. Here's hoping the Resort Minister heard you, so where that money leaks, so he'll keep on yelling at others, so he can't do it anymore, right? That's enough of that. I really hope so. And just to tell you that public private partnerships are not the same as corruption in the normal world. So if we have some private institutions with which we contract some services does not mean that they are automatically corrupt it seems only in Croatia this means. But here I wanted to, I was reminded by my colleague Marić of one story, so we spend so much money on health care, and the fact is that from Dubrovnik to Zagreb, from Privlaka to Zagreb, you don't have a bed for children and adolescents with psychological difficulties, so In the hospital there is no bed for those children they have to share rooms with adults, just that... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110260	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110261	Thank you. Thank you for your comment. Of course I agree that the general public does not mean the example of the Medikol and the state. However, I would say that it is not so and generally in Croatia because we can see that there are others, other practices, but that is generally how HDZ sees publicly and privately. So, where it is publicly used for private and particular interests. That's right. As far as child psychiatry is concerned, there is a state of despair, but I would remind you that the state is not, nor is there any institution in which, therefore, they are hospitalized and treated by children in their own, that they are, that they are founders. So, not from Prevlaka to Zagreb nor from Ilok to Zagreb, so they literally have none, there is one in which is the founder of the City of Zagreb and that is it. We care so much about the mental health of children and young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110262	The next replica of the respected Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110263	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, in your debate, of course you touched health care and, of course, you touched the subject of Medikol, which somehow remained under the radar. You know, somehow underneath the radar, there's some issues left behind with all these upcoming affairs, and then somehow these people get used to it. So our people get used to things. Two things I wanted to react to, one thing is so you didn't exactly celebrate with Minister Resort, I feel like you're choosing them by the criteria that will be worse than the last one, but that's another story. And I get the feeling often when we're here discussing what the budget is, what the rebalance is when it comes to health care like in that movie infinite day, so we can't wake up from all that. It's a good thing you've opened the story of Medikol and it's good to ask yourself, so I have nothing against public private partnerships, I have nothing to do with certain services still being provided, but how are they and how exactly? For that amount and compare the amount is very interesting. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110264	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110265	Yes, I agree definitely on the fact that in the sea of affairs it's just hard to follow them all and it's hard for everyone to pay attention. I also agree that it's at least my impression, I always thought it might be someone because I'm in health care, but really when it comes to our resolution ministers, I get the feeling that we always get the shortest straw that's said. As for the Medikol or the public-private so, okay, if we're talking about outsoring, but if it's functional and it's not going to harm the citizens, then the key would be that we're still thinking about it being public money, and it's completely avoided here, and as we can see, it's not been avoided by mistake, but we're talking about something that's been going on since 2007. He's been constantly trying to hide the click of the money ever since 2007. He's been going to the company in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110266	Next line of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110267	Thank you very much. Comrade Kekin mentions a billion kunas to Medikol or I don't know who, mentioning 60 million kunas would be necessary for certain devices of this diagnostic or I don't know what you mentioned to solve the health problem in this matter. Now imagine when you from Zagreb speak so that you have much better health services than in the rural areas of our Croatia. In the Dalmatian Zagora, women waited six months for enrolment on the ultrasound of the breast, I'm talking about the ultrasound and one of them being enrolled, and if they enrolled, then they don't sign up again for six months, so some of the dead have never been examined. And speaking of which, it well knows Ante Sanader it's their county that they made out of health, it's a public private partnership of HDZ and the health ministry destroyed everything. Better unfortunately in Yugoslavia then, now the word Sanader Miro is a Yugoslav, destroyed everything, exclusively through his party comrades to the ground There's no such thing as health care. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110268	Yes, thank you for your comment. I'd like to think I'm just trying to figure out, I don't know how many doctors are here, so PTC serves that when you have a patient to see in detail and precisely where his metastases are, so it's really a diagnostic device that saves lives literally because it's a radical revolution in the treatment of malignant diseases, it's incredibly important. And of course that Croatian citizens who are unfortunately in this kind of trouble I think if HZZO pays the Medikol and they go to Mediklo, is it important, no, and where, just so we understand each other for the last five, six years, I don't know how sure it is in medical circles that these devices in Medikol are out of date and that they're no longer working properly, and we're cashing out this huge money, and we need 60 million for four new ones. We're talking again, about people who have cancer. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110269	Next individual debate, respected William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110270	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In its debate on this first budget rebalancing this year, the conditions are already too clearly galloping inflation not only in our country but also in the number of countries in Europe and in the two-digit numbers in the hope that we are not in front of a famous inflation glare that has been announced for some time by a major financial expert, but also by a gambler on the world stock exchanges by Ray Dalio, who claims that every hundred years and that this inflation can now be terrible. Now, in that case, if the European Central Bank is going to save us, we'll be able to just watch. I don't want to get into it right now, I just want to comment on some things about this first rebalancing this year, and that's the question of the Ministry of Culture and Media on two different programs. First, I will say something about the Programme to improve the availability of cultural content to people with disabilities. In fact, in the budget that was adopted at the end of last year in the Programme to improve the availability of cultural content to disabled persons, a single item appeared, which increased by 144 million 287 thousand and something like that, somewhere in terms of a million and a half, and then somewhere there was a million and 743 thousand. I now have no option here to ask the Minister of Culture how it happened, that is, under the paragraph of the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism, which was imagined here. But now I see in this rebalancing that the 144 million 287 thousand were simply taken down. I guess, to see people have much more important, I understand, I ask for 144 million understand among the billions that and it may be a small number but within culture it was a programme to improve the availability of cultural content to people with disabilities and it was last year and now it's all taken down. We don't have anyone to ask for an explanation, maybe in the final, if you can find a way to explain it to us, I really believed it would happen. I really believed that would happen. Otherwise, it's significantly smaller money and it's money that's usually derived from gambling. Second program, now this will not keep you... The second one I want to comment on is the issue of a programme to encourage quality journalism, which the truth in this rebalancing has increased. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's increased because simply the roles of what we get from gambling are greater. This programme of promoting quality journalism is now the third year in a row and I just want to say that actually this program is great and if you would make it just like this topics, these are topics from culture, health, local topics, ecumenism and religion, human rights, the position of women in society, topics of interest for minorities in society, children, young people, education etc. What encourages these specific objectives that are being encouraged is to be achieved through this project. They refer to the additional involvement of journalists, journalists, deep research on issues of public interest, strengthening critical capacity, social impact, or above all to electronic publications. I say I want to commend it, but I also need to say that now that journalists have received annual awards, Boris Dežulovic said he just came from a trial in Split, and he came to Zagreb first of all for the trial he received the next day for the award ceremony was. And that everything that's been funded here, unfortunately, you won't find on HTV where there are great journalists, but there's no editor-in-chief of the program that doesn't allow these things to happen on HTV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110271	We have one replica, the esteemed Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110272	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Matul and I got caught in the eyes of this item that you mentioned was reduced. I was just reading the documents and I noticed it. I sincerely hope we hear some sort of explanation, but in fact it should be heard by Minister Obuljen rather than by Minister Maric. They only get a statement from the ministry that they should roll, in which way they will slip into the given frameworks. But that's unusual to cut the item, to zero. So for one thing, it's very, very strange. So I appreciate you pointing that out in your debate, so I won't have to do mine now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110273	Thank you, colleague Glavasevic. If it were simply not clear to me, it can be imagined that in Croatia as regards cultural institutions, access to cultural centres, homes for culture that this money of 144 million and 287 000 kuna would be welcome to improve the availability of cultural facilities for people with disabilities. Of course, in Zagreb you have lots of places where there are not yet the most important ramps have not let down the elevators that would help in this sense, without talking about how cultural content can be adapted to people, blind people, hearing people and many other ways in which cultural content can be adapted to them. But here it is suddenly gone or maybe the rules of that mechanism didn't satisfy it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110274	Next is the individual debate of the respected Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110275	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Each budget and each budget rebalance is at the end of the day a matter of priorities. I don't think I'm going to repeat myself here today and say things that were spoken of on some macroeconomic level or from some macroeconomic perspective by my other colleagues and colleagues from the opposition. I think we've done it enough times. It is clear that regardless of the numerous measures the government has had, inflation is a problem for which no solution has yet been found, as well as a rise in electricity prices. So I'm not going that way. In the direction I want to go, it's actually to look at how the ministers and ministers are, some of them, as long as I have time, have actually lagged out their priorities within the framework that Minister Maric, who is here in a ungrateful situation, is actually having to defend their decisions, the way that they have disputed their priorities. In the Ministry of Defence, I don't know all of Croatia shocked the drone's downfall not so long ago. I am therefore interested in the fact that, for example, the item of the common integrated anti-aircraft defence with NATO has not been changed. So it stands at 15.6 million kuna. Man would expect, in light of the government's statements made by Minister Banozic, the head of the Armed Forces' Chief Staff just to invest in anti-aircraft defence in order to increase security, that this will certainly be one of the items, which will increase the amount. But it's not. So, I remember living when I listened to the Prime Minister when that thing happened how he talked about that item going up. It's not increased, it's left at 15.6 million kuna. I think just for comparison, here I can set out another item for example, just for a second, for example, the item for spiritual care within the Armed Forces is at 10 and a half million kuna. Spiritual care, anti-aircraft defense after the drone fell on Jarun. It's a matter of priority from a colleague and a colleague. It's also convenient we had or awkward, we had the opportunity to listen to our own time about how increased hybrid threats, how many banks' institutions were under cyber attacks. Do you know how much the cybersecurity item is for the Department of Defense specifically? 8.5 million kuna. Spiritual care is 10.5, cyber security 8.5-spiritary Serbs 10.5. I suppose in the Department of Defense a priest is worth four hackers, as in hospitals a priest is worth as few doctors. Let's go a little further. I will not comment particularly on the lack of time, but I was not happy with the fact that there is no change in the amount of 52.6 million kuna for the Three Seas initiative from which we have absolutely nothing left. So, we gave the money from the investment there was nothing. Another thing to support the Croats in Serbia, for example, tomorrow Tomislav Žigmanov will come to the assembly, 2 million kuna is the amount, 2 million kuna is given. In Mostar, major concerns for culture in Croatia in BiH are the amount to support the university and the HNK Mostar has been reduced from 10 to 2 million kuna. And in the end, just one little remark like that. So, I don't want to open the subject of the Concordate with the Vatican or the Holy Table here, it's a very big topic and it's not for 22 seconds that I have left in this debate, but you should know that it's going to take us to provide for 344 million kuna, for the context, for the whole budget, and it's paid for. Okay, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110276	Replica, dear Marian Pavlichek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110277	Dear colleague, here you and I will never agree on the financing of spiritual care. Personally, I believe that spiritual care has contributed greatly to the 1990s in raising morals in the defence of Croatia, and it is difficult to measure it with kunas, it is very difficult to measure it with kunas, but here I will agree with you that we are devoting poorly little financial resources to support the general Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. By decision of the government of half of 3rd month 9 million kuna was allocated for capital projects and seven capital projects of Radio Dux in Montenegro, two projects include the Croatian House in Subotica, the Theatre in Peču and the University of Mostar and the support of the City Croats. 9 million kuna for the nearest countries or Croats in our immediate environment is definitely too little, if it were too little in euro. Here's your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110278	Thank you. No, my colleague Pavlikek, so not to be misunderstood, I have absolutely nothing against the subject of spiritual care, I'm just putting it in relation to some other items that are the Ministry of Defence Cor business, okay, so what's amazing to me is that the item for spiritual care is bigger than the item for cyber security. I mean, with all due respect, what's okay, you need one, you need another, but let's figure out what of those two can measure in kunas. The damage since the cyber attack can certainly be measured in kunas, the damage we could have had not given to God that drone was indeed loaded with explosives could certainly be measured in kunas. And as for Croats outside Croatia, there is one item that is drastically increasing here, that's what's interesting. The item for the Programme for support projects of strategic importance for Croatia outside the Republic of Croatia has been increased from 5 to 28.5 million kuna. How's that money going to split? What exactly does that mean? That's not what it says here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110279	Next replica, you give up. Then thank you very much. Next individual debate honored Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110280	Thank you very much. Dear vice president of HS, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So, there's one thing I always appreciate and I stress, which is that Minister Maric is the Deputy Prime Minister usually with us, obviously because of some of the affairs he leaves, but the main debate is whether the debate is the budget, the budget rebalance, or whether there are some amendments and additions to the laws that are from his portfolio and he's here with us. I hope he's listened to some things, and then he'll react to it. I'm going here very specific and clearly define myself on three things. The first thing health care, so as a responsible parliamentary representative, what did I do? I first went with the conclusion that the resolution ministry should provide 20 million kuna for four interoperable radiotherapy devices for four KBCs, which do not have this in Zagreb, Osijek, Split and Rijeka. Of course my ruling turned it down, there's nothing wrong with that. Then I went through the budget with the amendment to ensure it and explained why it should be ensured because it is something that serves a bunch of women, related to breast cancer, very quickly operationally can actually speed up the whole treatment process. Of course, as the minister said, the generic response was generally rejected. And look at the wonders, all of a sudden, the Deputy Prime Minister's resolute ministry and the finance minister is providing funds for the purchase of a 5 million-dollar device, and the device that was obtained for the Mercy Sisters sees wonders from it otherwise, Minister Beros is also from that facility, 11 million kuna. Everyone knows that two devices could have been obtained for it, and now the key question of the vice president is that two were acquired, so one is somewhere in the reserve, or someone has gotten one that costs 11 million even though it is known to be 5 million. If you're in charge and you're in charge of the budget, then it's no wonder we're going to get to the next generic rebalancing. The second subject I want to make clear is the next one. We went with a requirement to reduce VAT to menstrual supplies from 25 to 5%. There was a late hours of colleagues from HDZ having fun on the subject and not to say a joke, you went through a reduction to 13% and then there was one conclusion that this assembly had made, that by April 28, a menstrual poverty analysis and everything else should be done and that you would do the story further. There's no conclusion, we ended up at 13% even though there was a proposal at the time and I went with the amendment to go to 5%, but some of the opposition has no way. It may have been written in gold letters, then something would have gone away. I'm kind of stubborn, I have different good and bad qualities, and one of my qualities is that I'm persistent. I'm going to ask for a cut from 13 to 5% again and turn me down again, but believe me, we're going to get to my 5%, and I'm going to be interested in how the government did it and how that analysis did it. And the third thing I want to say here is the next thing. Renovate. The restoration is a key word and will be the greatest shame of this government, a restoration that is not there. I very carefully and very closely follow what is happening in the area of Banovina or Banovina and follow closely what is being followed in the area of the City of Zagreb. Even in the area of Bania or Banovina you want to call her something is going on. No matter where people say there are no workers, there's not enough building material. And you and I know that when the construction sector starts that it's a trigger and everything else, it just has to run and it has to be somewhere to buy construction material. But what puts me in this one of yours, or in the rebalancing, absolutely depressed, is the next. The item that says to provide temporary accommodation, so providing temporary accommodation for earthquake affected areas has increased you from 500,000 to 60 million, long we will set these people up. A recovery of damage in the Zagreb City area to that famous fund for which I don't know why you founded You're down 130 million. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110281	Replica, the esteemed Marian Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110282	Dear fellow Minister Maric, I have already said this publicly, personally I think he may be one of the best ministers in the current government, but he is responsible because he can only be a cashier, he is also the prime minister. Do you think he should have introduced order in the sense of introducing so-called steel or iron hand and tell your closest associates, the other ministers are fed up with enough, from health care and beyond. If he can't run the finances if he's just gonna be a cashier, then it's no use, then we turn the hollow into empty, we wait for incomes and expenses. It is important how and how they use reforms. I think with his knowledge and authority, he could have acted much stronger and more agile in terms of spending primarily in certain ministries such as the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110283	Thank you very much and thank you very much for this question. You know that the Deputy Prime Minister, which is why I particularly stressed his status, is also the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. If he had one printing of money, and my colleague knows it when we were in government together, colleague Lalovac, those demands coming from the ministries wouldn't be enough. And if he had a money printing company that'd be printing money any minute, it wouldn't be enough for health care. And we know that, and we know that the problem of health care, we know that education is always a problem, so even when you listen to a few other countries and when they do some kind of budgets or their rebalancing are about the same, but we all know that without serious health reform there is not enough money for health care. So what Minister Maric did when he didn't know he was being recorded or maybe he said, he told the truth, but there's no R since the reform, there won't be any reform, and the question is just how much will be dubiosis. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110284	The next replica, the esteemed Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110285	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I believe that you have studied the budget in a studio way and what's the question today is that no one has actually asked, perhaps, but I'm sorry I haven't heard, many construction companies have asked to be recognized so-called. VTR due to the rise in raw materials prices that they cannot complete the deals they have agreed with both local administration and the central state. And I just don't know if it's recognized through the budget and if you can even see how much that item is in the budget. It means those who are even funded by EU funds. Well, I don't know, maybe here's the question. I don't know if you've looked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110286	Thank you very much for that question. We haven't opened that question at all. We haven't even opened through these rebalancing systems at all, we don't even open it in public space. Therefore, the subject of VTRs or extra-costs and, respectively, prices that are one serious, one serious topic. What I saw in the space, which is a strange, non-resolute minister so often mentioned by Mr Paladin and the Ministry of Civil Engineering, was something that was done by Minister Butkovic and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, because it obviously met on certain works that were. It's a terrible problem and it'll be a problem. So, the problem that we have at this point without an answer is the labour problem that you don't have, the problem of building material that you don't have, so I listen from people who do and who say we can't buy it anywhere because there's no one to buy it and the third problem is those prices that are going to grow in the sky. And the question of who's going to have to do it for the end to bear a certain part of responsibility. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110287	Replica, dear Michelle Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110288	Dear colleagues Mrak Taritas, you know very much about the construction sector and about the restoration of certain areas, so my question for you, reading this rebalancing, and also teaching on the budget, regardless of the fact that we are all full of the mouth of European funds and NGOs, is that even after the change of Minister and new Minister Paladin, you see the light at the end of the tunnel that is called the restoration or we will still have one winter where people in Banija will be in containers, and in Zagreb you will be careful not to hit anything on their heads? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110289	Thank you very much. So everyone passing through the City of Zagreb should make sure that something doesn't hit their heads because the dangers are still great. The figures tell you everything, you know we have, we can speak in nice words, as soon as it's in the budget 60 million to subsidize temporary accommodation it means temporary accommodation will be long. Minister Paladin is one of those, so to be clear, and what I said and when I discussed on behalf of the club, who remembers was once a minister named Darko Horvat, therefore the reconstruction went wrong or did not go wrong, thanks to him the law was set wrong, when something set wrong could not end well. And what happens, trust your eyes, don't trust me, contests, competitions, or no one appears or gives up or because of the price you have to generally do not make a competition and don't do a job.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110290	The next replica is Branka Juričev-Martinchev's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110291	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleagues of Mrak-Taritash just now, you said when there was a discussion on the VAT reduction to the menstrual needs that HDZ colleagues had a laugh. I don't think that's right, that if you're going to remember the debate on behalf of the club, and we've all said that it's something to think about, see and propose to the next package of tax reform, and it really was, we haven't cut the VAT as much as we've proposed, but VAT is almost halved and 50% smaller than it was before. Have you noticed that it may be when it comes to these menstrual needs or oil, fresh meat, fresh fish and other products that have a 25 to 5% VAT reduction that this price is reduced in stores, in stores, and that indeed our citizens are doing much better than if VAT remained and so one of our colleagues was just talking about the practice that is possible in stores.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110292	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110293	My colleagues Juričev-Martinchev, I was at this debate that started at 6 p.m., so until the late evening, they answered all the questions carefully, and first I will answer what you said at the end, which is that, when it comes to menstrual supplies really in certain trade chains and reduced and that is the fact, they are reduced to start under and although often said they will decrease VAT, and they will not be reduced, and the second topic is who, who, who, and how he joked and referred to with the hygiene stakes of lavender, rose and everything else, you can solve it within the club and you don't have to believe me. The day after that, so it was one debate that was expected to go under the radar, I was called by journalists from neighbouring countries, some other countries, and they asked what was going on in the Croatian Parliament that night that the menstrual needs were discussed in this way and gave me the opportunity to say on some television of neighbouring countries what was going on, so ask them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110294	Time. Next is the individual debate of the respected Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110295	I thank Mr. Vice President, once again respected ministers with, no co-workers went a little bit and they rested, let the whole day be there and this one is not easy to sit all day and listen to all the debates this day and that is why we were actually saying that it would be good to see the rest and other colleagues of your ministers here, but I understand that it's not easy for your colleagues to defend today, too, because they don't know if the next rebalancing is going to be there, but can anyone guarantee that any of them will be sitting there at the next rebalancing if we're talking about the Minister of Health, Minister of Economy, the Minister of this to some other ministers, and you know why? Because they're big resistors, they're heavy resistors. Why he's been here for six to seven years. Minister of Finance, right? He was doing reforms, pushing some kind of, uh, some kind of change. Whoever comes instead of the minister and gets scared, it's not easy to eat, it's just that when the whole thing comes that I'm not going to say "haranga," the information just gets under the pressure of the public and all of these reforms just breaks down, and these are now times that will certainly not be easy for any minister in the future. Today it was mentioned here that these 45 billion were given to covid, that it was given to, to finance all the covid needs, and you see how the covid quickly disappeared, because as soon as war conflicts appeared, the covida disappeared, is no longer talking today, no matter how much costs, no matter how much they will be. Today we are also talking about inflation which is a strong pressure on the expenditure side of the budget just as the covid has strongly pressed the expenditure side of the budget and that is what is now a global issue is, so far monetary and fiscal authorities in all EU countries have opted for stimulant, all the time for economic stimulant and monetary authorities and fiscal authorities and therefore were allowed and deficits in all states and monetary authorities through the purchase... or the purchase of bonds to settle, or to offer, the bonds, and it was an incentive that because it was a crisis that was actually in 2014-'15. There was a public debt crisis, because what I was saying earlier today was the public debt crisis, the crisis was in all the countries of southern Europe, just talking about public debt, and then because there was a very high pressure on interest at the time, but now the European Commission has actually turned around, but what was worrying and all the time defending economic growth was now so much of this stimulant was given, and there was a supply disturbance, it happened that inflation was two-digit. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now the question is, what are the measures going on? All the time we're talking about fiscal measures again, we're talking about fiscal measures all the time, but let's not forget that these fiscal measures encourage inflation, encourage inflation and create spirals. So leaving inflation is not as simple as thought and even in theory, and even more difficult in practice because each additionally encourages this consumption, encourages price hikes, etc. It's very good here and this example of VAT, we've always heard it from entrepreneurs just cut the VAT all will be great, everything will be great just let's give 5% of the VAT. It happened that I don't know Ministers you list, I don't think I know how many products now, but it must be over 50 or 100 products per 5%, 100 products we have at 5%. Do Croatian citizens feel that part in their wallet that we pay lower VAT rates? But it was just all the time the speech was just you cut it down and you'll see how the market works, how the market works. What did the market do now? On the contrary, completely the opposite of being run right now, I'm saying this again, and I'm saying what I'm saying with inflation. So you always expect some magic wand from a fiscal government that has always taken a step, which is very quickly impossible to expect, is impossible to expect all realistic expectations. And that's why we mentioned here, the expenditure side of the budget not only in health care, you talked about the arrangement of the pay system, today we're talking about the system not only of the health system, but also of the public business system we're talking about HZ on the Finance Committee, etc., we don't see any progress here that we can say that if we come to times of crisis that we have additional fuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110296	Replica Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110297	Dear fellow Lalovac. You've had a lot of discussion these days about inflation, the first question is, do you think when we take into account price and fuel developments and energy and consumer baskets and everything that's been poured over, whether the government has done enough or simply surrendered to large capital that we can now clearly determine that in many products, the price is artificially pumping. And the second question about health care since you yourself were Minister of Finance is definitely one acidic apple, but is it normal that if we admit that we had fewer other medical interventions in covid that we have a huge eruption of all other costs unrelated to covid, new employment and not medical staff, and that there is simply no will from the minister or government itself, political will that finally someone initiates a clear and effective reform of Croatian health that will not ultimately have to pay the citizens of this country?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110298	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110299	Thank you. Well, there have been several reports here that there are two currents, one is that it speaks of health as on the spending side, and I believe that from the Ministry of Health it comes that this reform must be on the revenue side of the budget. Well, now that we're talking about the revenue side of the budget is okay, they said income, if we're going to introduce real estate tax, so if we're going to introduce tax, the contribution can't go any higher, the contribution is at 16.5%, the entrepreneurs can't take it anymore, so if it opens up here in the assembly that we can go more income on this part, but if we know that health costs have come to 41 billion, the pension costs are 45 billion. I think that never in the history of the Republic of Croatia has such a relationship of health and retirement been, ever.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110300	The next replica honours Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110301	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm a colleague of Lalovec's. I'm glad you mentioned the VAT problem, you know that the government didn't do it itself that it reduced VAT for certain products to make it a big halabuka, a big problem, etc. It is then envisaged that, based on the downturn, the rate is lost in the budget of over 2 billion and 100 million if I remember well. But here it has been shown that in the meantime prices have increased, that the base is higher and that revenue has been made in these three months billion and 800 of VAT. So here's proof that what you said really didn't work in that part of the market, or it only worked partially, and that's what's not good because it pumps further inflation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110302	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110303	I agree that because I say that when we hear all the time from entrepreneurs what the state can do to facilitate business in the first place is actually VAT, in the first place is actually VAT and it is always said that it is one of the key reasons not the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Now that he's at minimum levels, can't he be below 5%, I'm asking if we're more specific now with these prices? We are in Europe, but unfortunately we are not for pockets for Croatian citizens and this has still been shown, so whenever that policy went, just reduce in this part of VAT everything will be resolved in society, it has now been shown that this market attitude towards the state has not responded. And I always like to say that, and when they came looking for support at the ministry in the ranks they sat down to ask for support for covid, for this, for that. When VAT was to be reduced to reflect on prices [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110304	The next replica, respected named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110305	Dear fellow Lalovac. If anyone can put it in Minister Marić's skin, then you can do it, if anyone can read this budget or budget rebalance then you can do it. My question to you, do you see in this budget rebalancing the policy of this government, which will result in a improvement for the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110306	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110307	I didn't hear. A better one for? So look at the part where we're talking about the pension system and we said, I think we agreed, I think that's where we all supported it. [[Intruder: Better for the citizens.]] Because really pensioners in this part of inflation are really the most affected and what we've caused to be reconsidered once again in nine months if inflation is two-digit, especially food costs. The minister said there'd be a bigger indexation. But to think again about the pensioners and if it is before the end of the year, that payment will be made once again. The minister I did not hear here a reluctance, but said he would consider how it would be a full charge and that would depend anyway on the tourist season. The tourist season will actually always give us some kind of greatest, kind of hope that a certain part of the year can calm down. However, time must be challenging so that I would not be your skin ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110308	The next individual debate of the respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110309	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So I haven't asked a colleague before me to try to define what policy this budget is that will contribute to the improvement of Croatian citizens. And as you saw a colleague before me, like his successor actually said something might happen if there's a chance. What do I mean by that? In this budget, budget rebalancing has nothing to show the policy of this government in which it will facilitate the moment of the situation. And why is only the Minister of Finance sitting here today is not clear to me. If he sits as Minister of Finance, then he needs to be congratulated on leading the good accounting of this country. But never accounting is wrong for bad management decisions, and here we face management decisions. On the one hand, we will say that they are bad or that they should have been better; you will cry out that they are excellent; so let the people judge whether the decisions of those who lead us today are good or bad, and how the people judge it shows you how many people are moving out of this land. I've said it several times, and actually when we talk about this rebalancing, then we're really talking about a new budget. And the budget is the government's political statement, where the government's policy is defined which will work in the coming period. I'm here today saying I only see the truth for the will and vice president of the government, but I don't see any other minister whose budgets have been touched. We here today, I was against it on the board then we have a united debate. Why was I against it? Because today we're actually talking about three things here, talking about budgeting for the past year where we should evaluate how well the government has managed in the past year and what it has done with what it has promised, and I'm going to say it has done very little or almost nothing. We should discuss the Law on Budgetary Implementation, the minister only touched it with what little in the sign, which is a law that was usually passed unanimously in the House as it was not very important. This law has changed a few things. This law allows the Government and ministers to be much larger redistributions and much greater circulations within the budget, so we may not even see any rebalancing this year, because through redistributions and laws that you will pass, and that we will not even discuss it in laws at all. And then what we're talking about is the budget rebalancing. What does this budget rebalance indicate? I said it in the replica today, that this government has admitted to being incapable of carrying out what she planned four months ago, four months ago she said she was going to reorganize health care, that she was going to make health savings. After four months she said we're giving up, literally, she said we're giving up, we're going back to the old ones, they're going to spend it. My colleague Kekin showed you very clearly here how it's possible to save, so 940 million on one thing only, and that kind of thing at the Department of Health you have as much as you want. Health care, efficiency, I think is one of the most inefficient parts of this country's system. But not because sisters don't work, but because those who manage it don't manage it properly. Because those who run the systems are responsible for your efficiency. I'm here at the beginning when it was, or when I talked about the budget then I touched three things, so I also mentioned them on the board. I'm going to ask again who runs HEP, how someone calculates electricity prices, and how the de facto for amortised power plants came today five times the electricity price for entrepreneurs, then we can also talk about the electricity price of what my colleague Bulj was saying for units. local self-government. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110310	We have a replica of the respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110311	You said some aspects of the rebalancing and what you'd expect. Here's to me and rhetorical and a little provoking the answer. So we have a situation we couldn't predict, which is war in Ukraine. We have a supply chain situation that we couldn't predict, but we also have a whole series of elements that we could have predicted, although you have also warned about when budgeting including health care, including the rise in energy prices unrelated to war, etc. We don't see anything in this budget for amortizing them. All we see is the spilling from the hollow into the empty or patching holes of a system that obviously doesn't work well and without reform won't work. My question to you would actually be, since this is every government's identity card, and that's the budget that you're assessing, in fact, the government's work or what this budget would be. Developmental or not? [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110312	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110313	It would be very difficult for me, after what I said, to give a positive assessment to the government, but I'm going to make a connection and remind the minister of something else. The idea when she went, the rebalancing, not the rebalancing, but the amending VAT law, to take down VAT on solar panels for houses. That's when the government refused. Why did the government say no? So that HEP could generate revenue. I will remind the minister that several times from this pay phone was asked to see why HEP practically hitchhiks energy projects in the Republic of Croatia, and it really stops them because it imports cheap electricity and then sells it. And no, the purpose of managing the system would be whether it could be expected to increase energy, is, but the question is how are we going to prevent or install it, counterpart Bulj was talking about the price of water that would increase them due to the price of electricity.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110314	The next replica of the respected Renata Sablar Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110315	Thank you, Vice President. I see that you have referred to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the State Budget in the Republic of Croatia and have stressed that this law has passed undetectedly. Where you expect that we may have the greatest changes within or some minor rebalancing as you call them means within the budget that we will not see and we will not notice and what you expect the biggest interference or the biggest cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110316	I thank you, so for the first time, this government has practically made it possible to sign the future, I call it a covert, covert responsibility, so today you sign something projected in the budget for 2023, 2024 or another year, and you don't have that in the budget today. And let us be aware of one thing each budget must pass this Croatian Parliament. This means that someone today knows who will be making the budgets for another 2 years and that they will have a majority for items as planned. I have to admit it will be interesting in the City of Zagreb, and the minister looked back at me in the replica to see what the state budget would look like in 3 years when someone else comes in as you can see in the City of Zagreb today what comes out of the closet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110317	Next replica, respected Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110318	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, at the beginning of your presentation, you asked a question that is legitimate, which is a government policy that will lead to a better life for our fellow citizens. One of them you will remember was highly represented in public space by the ruling 2020, '21st, and these are the funds that we have at our disposal by European funds, meaning some 24 billion kuna. We can see that it was also a great opportunity, and that nothing is said about it today. And why isn't it talking? Because we don't have operational programmes that are in place and we've been waiting for it by the European Commission for a year and a half, there hasn't been nearly a single contest, and we can see that in the Ministry of Economy where we had planned 100 million kuna, and that's reduced to, 77 and 23 million, respectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110319	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110320	I'm not gonna be bad, so I'm gonna say I said again long ago this is a pure PR government that uses PR instruments at some point to represent something. It currently presents that she gave citizens 42 from Covid, then when you look at the report, it clearly says that Covida's cost was 23 billion. Of these 23 billion citizens were really given 7.3 2020 and 4.6 2021, and all the other money was practically spilling from hollow to empty, and for this part of 7.3 and 4.6 billion here I would like Mr. Minister to say in the final word how much he got from Europe. And I told you, this was just their PR, nothing more than the mass of these other things, I've got more in writing, but I haven't arrived.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110321	Next is the individual debate of the respected Renate Sablar Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110322	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, you are very patient and brave to be with us and in these afternoons. So, for a long time, I've talked about how we needed health reform, and how without it it was supposed to be not yesterday but before a larger series, a greater number of years, but they never happened. Reform is a big problem because the moment you reform something, you have practically double investment. First into that system that already exists and that has to work, then into something new or something that you're creating. I can agree with you that the change in ownership structure will not change the situation or contribute to reform. The reforms might contribute to the categorization of hospitals that will work and I believe they will, that they will contribute to one part, but we all remember very well the system where we had large medical centres that united everything and could cover all needs in health care. We've deployed a deliberate systematic health system to certain units that don't act coordinated anymore, and that's something that has to change as many different administrations as we have now, I'm going to talk, here's a Zadar example, sometimes we've only had a center or pooled so it was everything, and now we have a hospital in general, two special hospitals, well they've been separated in the system before, but we've got an Emergency Medical Services, a Public Health Department. Is there a need for all of this to be so fragmented or has it worked much better when it was unique and comprehensive? It is, it is so tied up in this reform that we really need and the amount of money spent in health care is huge and you yourself have stated that at the monthly level now the debts are growing between 400 to 500 million kuna, which is a terrible data, but at the same time you do not respect the law or lex specialis which clearly says that the funds collected by excise duties would have to be directed towards the health system. When you introduced these funds, your mouth was full of how much health care needed that money, the last example was when excise duties were introduced to sweetened drinks. Yeah, I agree. So all that money should be directed where it is needed and with that intention it is taken to the citizens. Unfortunately, this is not happening at the moment, but if it were to happen in one way, our institutions would be more relieved because they could plan that income, and then absolutely certainly, these debts would not grow to that extent because they would know what they were expecting in some period. And one more thing, to answer my parliamentary question, there's no data, and then I, Minister, can think whatever I want if you didn't write to me that it was, I don't know, 4 billion kunas, a billion and a half, 2, 3, I'm pounding because I don't know how much it is and how much it's, how much of a country has come in that way. Of course this, you'll have to change the whole paradigm health care, the costs will have to be reduced, but I think it's a big problem that pharmaceutical houses count exactly with that being delayed payment and that this one, they certainly calculate it into price, you're an economist, you'll know it much better than me, and then how much is that price and will the combined procurement do it sufficiently? So we need reforms, we need them yesterday, hurry up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110323	We have several replicas, the first to honor Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110324	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. You've listed a lot of important things that we've already talked about, which in this assembly, and what on the Committee on Health and Social Policy whose president you are, and it's good that we are actually common forces, primarily we are in opposition opening these topics and in some way driving the governing administration to talk more about existing health problems. Of course not, we'll never ask for something that's good, there are some good moves, but in principle our health system is crying out for change. The minister announced, when I asked him about the topic, that by 30.6 he would go to the public consultation of the Health Protection Act. Do you have any idea if that's going to happen at all? The law is just one link in this whole series that needs to be realized so that we can even talk about some kind of reform and consolidation of the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110325	I agree, fellow Members, with you, that the Health Protection Act is very important, but as you know yourself because you are a member of the Health Committee, Secretary of State Dulibic explained to me that I have nothing to ask about such a thing because if we move to the ruling majority then I will have the right to know.../incomprehensible/... have all the information, and I may even be able to participate in decisions. No, we don't know anything, we don't communicate with the Health Committee, so we don't get much, lots, lots of complaints, and that's too bad because we don't want to disturb the ruling, however, we want to make serious good changes for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110326	Next replica, respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110327	Thank you very much. My colleagues Sablar-Dračev. I think now on the replica board you actually touched what I wanted to ask you. You said and that's, I mean anyone who's well-intentioned and who's talking about this subject, I think it can be agreed that our health system is actually in need of a root reform. And it's sad that not because Covid himself is part of the cause, but our patients are waiting longer and longer for certain tests, certain checks, etc., etc. And it's clear to me that the ruling people don't want these reforms because if you're a member of the ruling, then you can come up with a review, then you can get to a specialist, but if you're an ordinary citizen, if you're someone who pays that service and it's expensive to pay if we talk about the workers and the separations they give, then you don't have the right to access to that healthcare system the way we should. We put a lot of money into it, and we get very little for our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110328	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110329	So I can agree with you that these citizens are really investing in the health system a lot, and the health system somehow works like this bottomless pit and no matter how much we put it in, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we don't, we have nothing to talk about, because these tails that are dragging around with pharmaceutical houses are no good for, no society, no system. Yeah, so this guy's trying to solve these waiting lists, solve the problem, and there's a hell of a lot of communication problems, so he's complaining to the patients not to pick up the results, and that's just because if you're sent by a hospital specialist he's got your report and why would I go to the counter when I get that find when I get to the next review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110330	Next replica, respected Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110331	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you have spoken about the subject of health and I agree with you when you say that it is certainly not a problem that can be solved overnight certainly requires a lot of effort and knowledge. However, I am interested in what you think about some announcements of reform, which is that it will go into the centralisation of the health system, would such a reform, such a new system, primarily contribute to improving the quality of health services for our citizens and would such a system lead to the reduction of our health debt?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110332	I appreciate the question. I personally agree here with Minister Marić, I think that this centralization of the health system will not be much help or that you will convert general hospitals and those who do business positively which are not many and those who are doing so negatively are far more than this or put them under a state's cap I think that local self-government should have a growing power that the less state should be central because that best local self-government should best recognise the needs of its citizens and direct material resources towards what they need, and they know which segment of health care they want to develop, of course we can't all develop everything, every few things.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110333	The next debate was respected by Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110334	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. I will also refer to the fact that public debt, as has been known since 2019 when 71.1% of GDP shares in 2020, has increased to 87.3 due to the pandemic. However, in 2021, as I said, since economic growth was over 10% and all other positive effects, so in 2021 it was already down to 79.8%, which means 7.5 percentage points lower than 2020, and in 2022 it is expected to be 76.2% or 3.6 percentage points lower than the previous year. So all of this indicates that, despite all the problems facing both the minister and the state budget, it really is highly rational and it takes care of exactly the criteria that it is, they are set out from the mastery and that is what we really have to boast because few of which the state has achieved in this way, to meet it in this way and so strongly. I will also refer to the amendments that have been adopted as part of our session of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The two amendments are the amendments where the draft changes and the addition of the state budget for the '22s are made. and projection 2023 and '24. in point (a) of the general section of Article 5(1), point (b) is replaced by the following: 1st in the table that income and expenditure bill where the plan for '22. the amount of the non-financial assets is thus replaced by 160,404,607,707, and the costs for the purchase of non-financial assets where they are corrected to the amount of 12,908,411,930 and the amount of the operating expenditure is changed in such a way that the amount of the non-financial assets is replaced by 10,344,883,515 and for the purchase of non-financial assets by 1,067,144,542 is replaced by 554,993,497. The proposed amendment technically corrects the amount of the 2022 plan and reduces and increases the cost of business and expenditure for the purchase of non-financial assets. The error showed the original plan in 2022, which the HS adopted at its session on 8 December 2021 instead of the current 2022 plan covering the redistribution of funds implemented during 2022. It's all consistent. 60. The budget law, and consequently, needs to be corrected and reduced, i.e. an increase in these expenditures. Similarly, the amendment does not change the total amount of expenditure, so it is all within the defined values but in the transfer table itself there was an error. In addition, in Amendment 2 where the general section 2 of Table 2 of the financing account is replaced by the amount of net funding in column 2022 in a way that amounts of 17 billion 070 805 854 is replaced by 9 billion 336 289 723 and is also replaced by 2 billion 643 962 417 by 4 333 38 813 683 and is amended in column a new plan in such a way that the amount of 19 billion 714 768 271 is replaced by 13 billion 675 103 406. Here's the thing, technically nothing changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110335	Replica, the esteemed Maria Steel.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110336	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, here we are witnessing in fact that the government has taken very responsible measures to help citizens first and foremost, during this crisis period and after the earthquake and after Covid. Today, during the debate, we had the opposition to hear the question of what this rebalancing brings for the citizens. Given the situation in which we are already in place, which we don't even know until the end what final form we will have in Europe, and the world, it seems to me that this rebalancing is still rational and responsible, and only in investing and in solving debts in health care, I think it says how seriously this government thinks that in those frameworks, as much as possible, it really helps in all directions, that it also takes care of the most vulnerable groups in society as well. So tell me what your thinking is and your attitude about it. Is this rebalancing responsible and rational?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110337	Answer. The answer, and we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110338	Thank you very much. Article 238 was injured, I think colleague Jelkovac insults all of us who are here all day and then the Croatian public. So we're wondering what this budget is all about all the time, so we're wondering what it brings to Croatian citizens, so we're talking about it and I don't know if you're listening to the lines, here if you haven't been before, we're wondering about it. We didn't get any answers from either the minister or the secretary of state, but neither did your colleague. So give it up, don't insult Croatian citizens if you already think of us who are here all day.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110339	You used this for a replica, you get a warning. The answer to the line, Grozdan. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110340	Thank you very much. Thank you, fellow Members, for this, it is really not clear to me that the opposition does not recognize any of what has been done and with this rebalancing, and even the previous one that has happened because it is more than obvious that both the economy and the business of both the population and the pensioners have been taken into account in the previous period. That it was quite well kept in account in conditions that were pandemics that reacted quickly and efficiently, so when you look at over 170,000 entrepreneurs had the need for funds to help during the pandemic, then it's already very much said.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110341	The next replica was respected, a new violation of the Rules of Procedure, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110342	Thank you very much. Article 238, so colleagues please don't insult the opposition I'll tell you again. So, we're proposing some things, we suggested seven months ago when we were bringing this budget, you didn't adopt anything. We talked about health problems, we said this was going to be a problem. We've been warning about that, and now you're rebalancing it, and now here we are unconstructive. Well, if we're not constructive then please, I mean really here, don't lie to the Croatian public, that's all I'm asking you to do. [[- Not you either.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110343	Okay, you're getting a second warning. Replica Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110344	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Peric, challenging times. I would say that this government as little as in history has gone through so many challenges that have really brought a lot of things that have not been calculated and could not be calculated, from Covid, so here we are now in a time that is very challenging geostrategically considered because of Russia's aggression in Ukraine. Of course, agriculture is a strategic branch of the economy and in this rebalancing budget it is recognised. The 200 million kuna has been rebalanced by the government for the needs of farmers to assist in the spring harvest and, of course, for the harvest to come. So I am for criticism, but for overly critical of what can improve the domestic gross social product, and in the end here you see this vision of thinking about what might possibly be waiting for us in some time that we can't, we can't predict.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110345	Yeah, and I'm a critic because sometimes criticism can encourage it. However, we are very well aware of what needs to be done in health care, that it is necessary and recorded and implemented etc., but we have been in the pandemic for 2 years so when no major changes have been made, since the whole world has been in trouble, and so have we. And when we look at how much it's invested and how much it's invested for pensions, for additions, you've mentioned this extra for employees, for agriculture, so 200 million is not enough, the farmers will say it's not, but this government has found a way to ensure and mitigate at least part of what is due to energy prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110346	Next is the individual debate of the respected Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110347	Honorable Vice President, Honored Proposers, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to mention two topics here regarding budget rebalancing. The first thing is, I've already said something about her in the replica, I'm going to try a little bit here, a little more detail to the public, and you with that problem. Therefore, public water supply providers are today forced to increase water prices due to an extremely large increase in electricity prices. We heard today from fellow Bulls who talked about it and that's an objective problem. Well, here's what I mentioned, for example. The waterway, the Sibenik water line, which today covers the entire Sibenik-Knin County most of it, even parts of Split County and that it will be likely to keep the same situation without pay increases, required between 25 and 30% increase the water price due to an increase in electricity prices. What you might see, colleagues don't know, and those who are watching this, most water supply stations use electric pumps to pump water to start the system, and if electricity prices rise, and now they offer 300 percent higher than they were, so 300 percent, then we have one big problem. It's not the only cost of electricity, but it's a significant item. Now, I've introduced this kind of electrical energy supplement for the pensioners, and here I am really, I've been thinking and talking a little bit to people who are in the vault, which model could be offered. This is going to be one big hit on citizens' standards, and I think that there would have to be a model there that even through, I don't know, that maybe even for citizens, I don't know, maybe for entrepreneurs, although for entrepreneurs, too, the big problem is that price is limited or in some way subsidized. If someone had an account, I don't know, 200 kuna, the minimum will now mean 260, and somewhere more. I'm talking about your subject. It's water. It's water. The second thing that I would like to call here is for respected proposings to keep a little account, and these are always the famous prices of fuel and excise duties. When the fuel price is 13 kuna, then we have a lot of VAT and we see that VAT is actually now due to the increase, because of inflation, that we have, that a good VAT is being charged, that is, to fill the budget. I think that this country is precisely because here, VAT, means large bio fuel prices could still affect the cost of excise duties and reduce the price of fuel through the reduction of VAT on energy because it's not now the state's interest to fill the budget through the price of fuel on the burden of citizens and of course entrepreneurs, but to find some balance, to cut the VAT because it's obviously enough because of the high price, I guess you've figured out what I'm talking about. Well, maybe that's it. I'm sorry the minister got out this minute, but here, these are the two topics. So I will repeat, given that I have another minute and a half, the price of water depends largely on the price of electricity, if the price of electricity for public water supply providers went 300% higher, the price of water must also go. That's, I said an example in the Sibenik plumbing, if it's 30%, 30%, which is a major blow, there'll be more somewhere. The Sibenik water line is fortunate that when the high water supply in the rivers has its power generation, it has its generators and produces electricity that drives the pumps. Some plumbing, I notice, with colleagues of Bulja they don't have it and then they'll have maybe.../incomprehensible/... and a bigger increase because they're more dependent on electricity, here's the real problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110348	Next is the individual debate of the respected Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110349	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the Ministry. [[Intruding Zekanovic: Calls war in Ukraine, colleague.]] My colleagues and fellow MPs. So not long ago we had a debate about disbanding the Parliament, about the work of the government and what I said then, I'm going to repeat today. Personally, I think that Minister Maric is a good minister, perhaps even the best in the government, only to point out that his political discourse, which then, of course, dictates a lot of other policies that are implemented through the Ministry of Finance, is not something that we would be prepared to support from this side of the assembly and that we would be willing to advocate because it comes from us absolutely unacceptable economic schools, especially from an unacceptable economic school related to the moment in which today our citizens, our country, and even much wider, the whole world, lives. I am sorry, too, that there are no other ministers because some of the questions that have been raised today in the assembly are related to all other ministers, including the Prime Minister himself. One of the main topics is health care, where besides throwing a lot of numbers, explaining that there is no good, but we all fight together, we haven't heard a single sentence about how we're going to deal with this problem and how we're going to solve it so that we don't end up questioning the functioning of the system because we know ourselves that it usually breaks down on those who are the most threatened and who can least afford to pay for their treatment in private clinics. But what I would like specifically to apostrophe in my debate is our tax policies. So this crisis has shown how fragile we have an economic structure, how much we haven't done on both energy and agricultural self-sufficiency, but how much we haven't done in all these years to have a fair tax system that we won't be able to say to protect private capital and to allow those who are rich, to have even more. Unfortunately, today, that's the way it is. We have a tax policy regarding income tax, where we have made it possible, in recent changes, that our parliamentary pay representatives go up 1,000 kuna, and the cooks and cleaning ladies in the Parliament went 50, 60 and we said it was just so good. Of course it's not good and of course it would be rational to pay more for those who have started over. It is also interesting that all finance ministers so far, from all governments, mostly and exclusively reforming tax policies played with income tax, have only always forgotten at the end of the day to tell citizens that this is not the state's income and that the state does not deny something that is the income of municipalities, cities and counties. That's where we come to another field to get into the National Recovery and Resistance plan with a lot of projects. Otherwise, the community has already responded to certain competitions. Most of the municipalities in the community have HDZ, signed a chief who is HDZ and is asking questions with such policies towards a place that municipalities and cities will especially poorer in the first place be able to think about the National Recovery and Resistance Plan and the IT Mechanism. Is it possible that the time has come to finally say that a profit tax could stay where it is created, which would also create competence among the cities to attract investors, but perhaps it is time to start discussing property tax and luxury tax, because today we all know that at this time inflation, those who have money are furiously loading it into real estate. We have a huge growth in the real estate market and we're coming back to the phase that the rich are buying, and those who might want to build their first home today can't get involved in that game. It's an entire set of tax policy debates I believe will be willful. Because if we had five packages, we could have a sixth, but only with the intention of restoring justice and simply this crisis doesn't do everything they've done and the other crises, that they've become richer and poorer. And just for the end of the second election unit, I think the finance minister knows how much the second constituency is in the budget. Finally, he knows how much Koprivnica brings Podravka with its profits and other results in the budget itself. I believe that the problems that have arisen on the second track which is a very important project mainly on the move from Long Sela – Križevci, and there are objections with performers and on some other projects, but also on the issue raised by the acquisition of material about the continuation of the fast road towards Koprivnica and Bjelovar should not turn out to be used again by someone, that for the jubilee hundredth time Koprivnica, Bjelovar, Vrbovac, Long Selo, another electoral unit gets out of the state budget absolutely nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110350	Next is an individual discussion of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110351	What to say here is this rebalancing mostly refers to health care. However, health services in the Republic of Croatia are not the same in the whole area as the Constitution would tell us, but since no one respects the Constitution, neither is the Constitutional Court so we expect neither from the Ministry of Health nor from the Ministry of Finance. I'd just say as far as health services are concerned, they're getting worse and worse. Unfortunately, I wish it were different, it's a single lobby, I can tell everyone about the lobby, partly run the Knight's Alkaric Society and a health care kit in Sinj. You go to see a gynecologist who works in a health care facility, he gives you a manual of one of the key people, I guess, for example, he gives you an instruction to go to a private person. In the town of Sinj is also the one in the Knights' Alkar society and ultimately the same gynecologist who referred you from the House of Health examines you in private. That's what I'm saying to women about how the system works, and that's the facts. And that's basically an opposition to me in the city of Sinj, basically the Knight's Alkarian Society. Management, not people. They would still want not only to manage health care. Here's my colleague Brcic very well knows that they run the whole system and that's the problem. These are the problems, it is HDZ infrastructure, the HDZ infrastructure of the Knights' Alkar society, and so in all cities probably and mainly the county that allows them to take over the entire system and what is said publicly and privately. They work in the public sector, and they get double wages in the private sector, but they're well-connected things. However, the damages we have now will, of course, be spoken of in the coming period, because this is the time ahead that we have to tell the truth and we are the truth, and my colleague Brcic knows that I will tell the truth and only the truth and the evidence. And that's how it is for you, isn't it? And as for this problem that we have a huge problem, that's the problem, I'm saying, I've asked Plenkovic a question, the prime minister here on the topical clock, that there's a huge problem waiting for us. It is a collection of electricity for water lines mainly in mountain-mounted areas. He didn't take it seriously. Then I will return to the question of what hurts him, the issue of Croats in BiH, and it did not realize that simply when the current collects 500% for water and sewage at that time comes a chain reaction where it must collect water and end-user, economics and, of course, households. He'd been talking about it for a long time, and I really thought he'd take it seriously. Because you've made the PR the most successful in solving the energy problem after this covid terror, this covid dictatorship with these covid meaningless certificates. You've made a huge terror, and now, of course, we have to collect. That's all the results. However, the solution exists, I will present it soon. I believe all the mayors from other areas are listening to me. That solution is very simple. I'm not taking it out now, but here's the day I hope you'll give the solution. So I'm giving you the ruling time to figure it out, give you a solution. If you do not give the solution I as mayor of the town of Sinja am the majority owner of the water pipeline and the disposal of the Cetina region, where the partial and Split hinterland is powered and I will bring the solution. And it's going to be terribly simple, I can say it in two roars. So I'm giving you time to not be, and I've given you too much time. Even in the county, I was saying it the last time in the County Assembly, but I didn't know what it was about. But you've done well with the PR. That 10% of the crowds if you can listen to this is very important to the respected representatives of the ministry, they don't care, these waters play their own game is the latest game, which the secretary of state, and the new game well. Try it. I'd just say that you didn't collect 10% of the electricity, but you've collected a lot more electricity for the citizens of the Republic, and you've made it hard for the PR to fail us during that hep that's ours, and you see what we're doing, especially when we're talking about these mountainous and mountainous areas to the plains where we're going to have minor problems... they're not going to need enough energy. I've got a solution. I'll give you a few days to figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110352	There is a replica called Brumnic esteemed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110353	Dear fellow Bull. I expected you to explain to the ministry representatives that HEP is a state-owned company that produces 60% of electricity on amortised power plants, so there is no logical reason to collect that electricity. 25% of the products from a nuclear plant where there's also no reason to collect, so in this case, the state could practically limit the price of electricity at practically the entire state level. What could also make the income, or profit that HEP has from a billion and 400 million in the last year, or put before it into a cut in electricity prices. They didn't do any of these things, and the state did. is a 100% owner of HEP. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110354	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110355	True, I agree, however, and he has obligations for party campaigns to save that money, so local self-government must. Still, the people ultimately citizens entrepreneurs will not care to pay these costs. Of course they're generous and sponsors, they're generous severances in HEP, they've got family heirlooms in HEP they've got it all, they're our HEP, I mean ours, they're creating energy, but it's an inherited one company that would have said monarchy because everything is hereditary in it from the helical to the helical, but I have a solution to this problem. I only give them time to get along a little bit, but they or are confused, I saw that they started... when Zekanovic mentioned it then he must have got some kind of impasse from someone here, probably colleagues from Vodice. So I've got a solution to this problem 500 percent of the water supply in the mountain-mounted areas, I won't tell you, I'm trying to give you time to hear it soon, you'll hear it soon and it'll be well remembered, you'll remember it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110356	Next is the individual debate of the respected Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110357	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the long-standing debate on rebalancing and what was in some way and to expect the biggest debate to be about health care that was most discussed and somewhere in December when we had a debate here about the state budget for 2022. And that's not surprising, because when we look at the largest individual increase in the expenditure side right now, some nearly 4 billion kunas and the other biggest problem is that it's not if we at least paid for it, so that all the problems are gone, but the next month it's going to be 400, 500 million kuna again, so in a month after another 400, 500 billion, two very quickly accumulated, and on the next budget we'll probably be the most debated on the spending side of the health system. And what we have always said is this problem of expenditure and the consumption of a state that we cannot even with the revenue side, or we have no strategy on how to solve the problem of the expenditure side of the budget, and since knowledge and political will obviously does not exist either. We have, so for almost a year I appealed here at the beginning of this term when it was the problem of the Bat factory in Kanfanar to try a solution, remember there was a problem with excise duties and here today I am glad that this problem was solved. And today I read that in these two years they invested over 400 million kunas in production capacity, hired another 70 people, and that's what this country needs. Unfortunately, such examples are too little for us at this point, we need such industries not only in Istria but throughout Croatia, because there was also a colleague recently speaking, we built in Slavonia in some place a kindergarten, but the question is who we built it for. We've withdrawn funds from the EU, okay, but for who? And when we talk about EU funds, that's what I wanted to touch. So we have a situation that I think was precedentd in history that we from the Solidarity Fund didn't make it somewhere in the middle of the 6th month this year, we weren't ready to have enough capacity to pull it out and then we managed to get an additional period by the middle of the 6th month next year to withdraw all the funds. In the Recovery and Resistance Fund so far, we have only launched two tenders, only two competitions, everything we have at our disposal we have to contract in the next two years, and spend or use the funds we agreed on until 2026. We're already half of '22, time goes by, and when we see the Solidarity Fund that we haven't done a good job, when we see that in the Recovery and Resistance Fund we don't do a good job, when we see that, yes, we know that the praise is true we contracted over 120% of the funds in the last envelope, that's important, but it's much more important how much of these funds we pulled out or spent, and here we're at about 65%. And on the one hand, we have a development index where you punish someone who's a little bit more developed, and that would even be okay if we spent all 100 percent of our resources, and you refuse to spend any city or municipality project, and on the other hand, money is not spent. And then punish someone who works for it, not now, I can speak from the perspective of Istria from where I come from, but you have it in northern Croatia, so you have the end and the city of Zagreb. And that's what we appeal to and it's not that we're less solid, it's not our problem not to go anywhere else, but don't take away those who work and create. And I think it's really one thing that I'm trying to be constructive and give some example that those funds are being used especially when I'm justly stating that problems, that we have serious problems with the withdrawal of European funds because we have them, that's the fact. And better for us, the sooner we open our eyes to the team, the sooner we can solve that problem. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110358	We have several replicas, the first one is Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110359	Thank you very much. My colleague, you come from a more developed part of the body, you come from a more developed part of the Republic of Croatia we talk about Istria, but also the fact that you're talking about withdrawing funds that we have this problem that the funds are not being spent without certain local self-governments being able to get. However, the fact is also that the state should see that certain units of local self-government have no financial capacity, no knowledge, no experience, no ability at all to apply anything, and that is the problem in which we revolve around. We can't meet those obligations here, and on the other hand, someone who can't get it. And it would be fair, of course, that how evenly it is equaled that these undeveloped municipalities are developing on purpose that those who are building are not braked, but in us everything is the opposite, there is always some vicious circle in which they are spinning and there is no solution, similar to this collection of electricity. Electricity is not as more expensive, and for the citizens there will be 500 percent more expensive water. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110360	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110361	I agree with my colleague Bulj, we do not have the capacity in some units of local and regional self-government to write a project or apply it, there are no states either, but this is something we should have seen in the first envelope. I mean, we literally have a situation where someone who knows how to work with European funds, so there's no way they're going to go to work at a local and regional self-government unit. For what? For 7,500 kuna, look, they won't. Why? Because he's gonna make three times as much as a private man, and we got a serious problem here, too. So not only are the units of local and regional self-government having a problem with personnel, and that's why we're here, and that's why we're not able to solve the problems of the one I spoke about in my individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110362	Next replica, respected Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110363	Your Honor, you come from one of the most developed counties in our country, and I believe that just like all of us who are in the northwest, you have several possible units of local self-government that are not sufficiently developed, and which are also a problem with the employment of people and who have problems building projects. Nevertheless, I believe that the county has come to these people for help and that they have designed the project. However, given that Istria has been developed because Croatia does not withdraw money from funds, many projects that are finished are standing because it simply does not come money. Do you know how many projects are currently in Istria waiting for competitions to be held?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110364	So at this point in time to be honest, I don't know what the exact number of projects on hold is, but we are certainly ready at the county level, but I believe that both cities and municipalities are ready because for many years we've all been together in this whole story and we're just waiting for competitions to be discussed, but the problem is that these operational programmes and effective human potentials and competitiveness and cohesion and integrated territorial programmes are simply not called for because communication between the Ministry of Regional Development and eu funds with the European Commission is still clearly ongoing, and there are obviously certain problems. What are those problems? We don't know because we can't see correspondence, but there are obviously problems and they're obviously too slow to solve because here's what I've said for the past year and a half, and there's still no contest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110365	Next replica honoured Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110366	I thank the chairman. Dear colleague. You were talking about eu funds and usability, not usability, absolutely agree with your claims, but my concern is even greater pro futuro, so what's just going to happen to NPOO. Namely, I don't know if you noticed, but there are announcements, and we can see by some tenders that the vast majority of the contests will be on the principle of the fastest finger. This means that not only those who have the highest quality projects will not gain but will neither be obtained by the development index necessarily but those who have the best connection to enter in the first second, two and on that basis the age of funds. That's how it works now in the energy efficiency competition when the people who came in first second were 750 and some in a row. So I think that's what's going to jeopardize both this budget plan and the spending of NPOO funds in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110367	Right, I agree. I agree exactly with you I think it's a big problem, I think that projects should be approved and valorized by their actual quality and by what they bring into the community in which these projects are to be implemented tomorrow. [[Stain Sanader: Answer.]] And now that you've mentioned this fastest finger and the Recovery and Resistance Fund, if I'm not mistaken, there was one tender for entrepreneurs, in principle, the fastest finger where the projects were accepted and even entrepreneurs got a decision on project financing, they went to work, or they went to their investments, which they applied for in order for the simple competition to be annulled, so the question is why. Did he get someone who didn't need it or didn't sign up for someone who needed it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110368	Next is the individual debate of the respected Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110369	Thank you. Dear Vice President, the minister is gone, Your Honor. I am here because of all these discussions that our representatives of the ruling majority had here changed their debate entirely. First, we heard from the ruling that they condemn the assessments of some opposition MPs about the incompetence of ministers and government as a whole. Are we talking about incompetence and misunderstanding and poor consideration of the needs in the country by individual ministers or parts or the entire government in the period when the budget is being adopted is exactly the same for us. You can call it whatever you want but the result is the same, we see it today. Five months ago, the ruling majority said in a assembly in front of the entire Croatian public that the budget is good, developed, social, sustainable, loud and we vote for such a budget. Where are we today? When we claimed that this budget was not good, when we claimed that we had problems especially in the health care portfolio, you did not accept these arguments. Well, you've only missed on, you've only missed on the budget that's tied to the Ministry of Health you've missed 27% of the people. And they claimed it was okay. Five months later, today you're saying that, don't say that it was wrong last time, no, today you're saying that this is the real budget that this budget is good. And we're telling you again, it's not good, we're going to have rebalancing because of the same problems. In a few months we'll be doing the budget again, you'll be talking about the same reasons. The Russian invasion of Ukraine, health care, energy, global labour shortages, inflation, will all be listed as reasons for the next rebalancing. So please accept that something is wrong, that we need to change that, that we need to react differently. I've responded several times to stories about the number of employees here. Do not deceive the Croatian public and talk about the number of employees in a way that takes account of those who are registered to... Because that's not true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have a large number of students there, you have a large number of people working temporarily for a certain time. That should be considered. When you talk about paying off entrepreneurs in order to preserve jobs be fair and correct and tell the Croatian public how much of the money has come from Europe then you talk about it because it is not isolated from our budget, we did not earn it in Croatia, we got it from European funds. The claims about the big growth of the economy, what did you back them up to? Let's check it out in a way that we can get publicly available data. In a way to deal with 2020 when the Covid crisis hit us and then we see that VAT revenue growth in 2022 compared to the 2020 income plan marked a 28.11% growth. At the same time, the growth in income from the contribution is 18.56%. What does that tell you? This says that spending in Croatia did not grow because of the increase in wages but increased because of the increase in grants or payments from abroad of our people who moved out of abroad because they could not work here. That's the money that's being expressed in VAT today. And taking into account what happened with VAT that we've reduced the VAT rate to a large number of products that are good and what's good and what's good, then we realize how much we actually have price increases and how unfavourable it is for our citizens who live here. And we're doing absolutely nothing. It even went so far as to talk about the global crisis that hit the world from 2008 to 2015 and it was said that there was something wrong with the government that was then in power, from 2011 to 2015. Gentlemen, don't forget that your prime minister claimed that the global crisis would bypass Croatia and that he did absolutely nothing on this issue and left the country under fire and unprepared for the coming of the crisis. Well, that's the real truth of it. Today we heard again the announcement of a better life in Croatia and that pensions will grow 10%. Really commendable, but don't forget that yesterday was announced that inflation would be 9.6%. How much will we give the pensioners 0.4% increase in pensions? We're not giving anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110370	The first is the respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110371	Comrade Pavić, I'm really begging you now, stop lying to this tormented people. This rebalancing is not due to the war in Ukraine, not because of the failure of the government, not because of lack of vision, not because of corruption, not because of the fact that in the Ministry of Health furniture competes with florists and photographers, no, no, no, no, no. This rebalancing is probably due to World War II, I guess we still feel the consequences either of the Homeland War or of the corrupt Racan government or of the 2008 crisis, but God forbid it's because of the lack of vision or hearing of this government for something we warned about. So please, please stop making these incorrect allegations, unfortunately we don't have that institute anymore, so I can't lift it for you, I had to replicate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110372	Thank you, Your Honor. I think it's clear to everyone that what I said is absolutely true. Unfortunately, members of the ruling majority do not want to accept the fact that five months ago they missed the figure by, just for health care, 27%. It's not small and it's not enough, be careful it's not enough, we're gonna need that much more. We will need even more money to experience the end of the year and to give our fellow citizens medical attention. Without that money we'll have in the next rebalancing, there's no health care. And I've talked about it before, it's not just about this money that we owe to the wholesalers, it's also about the money we owe to HZZO because our hospitals owe us big money to HZZO because of the measures that were in place and it just couldn't be done with their tasks or jobs that they were supposed to do. Let me just tell you one thing, Special Hospital. In Krapina Spas, 90 million kunas are owed. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110373	The next replica honours Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110374	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, here you are, looking back at problems with the budget or budget rebalance in the health care sector. I find it interesting that there are actually no fellow doctors from the ruling option to praise this budget, obviously there is nothing to boast about health care, so there are none. But let's go back to health care, what you were saying. You're an IT expert, so then I love you guys about it. So, health system information, that's what 54,300 000 kuna are supposed to be, but the rebalance hasn't changed that amount at all. Do you think we have nothing further to inform? So will those funds be enough? We've got a lot of work to do. So not all health institutions are yet, have not established a hospital and information system, the issue of managing waiting lists, then connecting patient findings, e-Carton patients and editing the health system. We've got 209 grand more insurance than our residents. When's that gonna work out? So, informing the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110375	I don't know if you've been informed, however, over the past few months, systems have begun to move from hospitals to CDU. So at the Centre of Shared Services, with the goal of reducing information costs in hospitals. How successful and how successful it will be, I really don't know, it's difficult to assess at this point, however, it is certain that the Centre of shared services was not intended for this. But since we know how to fail and those systems that were needed there are currently being done in a way that fills this CDU in a way that actually the hospital information system is moving into that CDU. If all services were to be centralized, if it were in one place, it would be far, far cheaper than if every hospital were doing it for itself. Whether you will succeed in Croatia, whether it will succeed in such a short time, that is a big question. And I'm sure we'll have to invest a lot of money to keep our healthcare fully informed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110376	Next replica, dear Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110377	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague. I must commend you, you said we were using EU funds. Yes, we use them very successfully, unlike the SDP coalition, which, when it was in power, didn't even know it, you had a very low percentage of usefulness from the European, EU funds, and as for our government and what it does in continuity, increased wages, increased pensions, and you only increased the tax burden on citizens, while we used our tax reforms to dissipate them. So tell me, today you're sharing advice, I wonder which direction you'd be going with this rebalas... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110378	Honorable MPs. After your failures five months ago and the failures you have today, this budget is impossible to fix. It's just impossible. I'm glad to use the funds to the extent they're used, and we just heard from my colleague Lerotić, they're not used. The funds are not withdrawn and have problems with the local self-government unit because it is not done. And you keep saying everything's okay. It's not okay. ... Well, no, I've made hundreds of suggestions. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] None has been accepted, but no proposal has been accepted. .../incomprehensible/... of this, the amendments we have stopped writing because no amendments are accepted. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] They're not good, are they? There, says Branko, they're not good. Well, if none were right, I don't believe it. So, fellow Members, I agree with you, it would be good if we were to withdraw funds, it would be good to spend that money from the EU, however, it is done to a small extent, and what is being spent, it is misrepresented.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110379	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110380	Thank you very much. Art. 238, so my colleague Jelkovac, quoting her colleague, doesn't lie, but sometimes she doesn't tell the truth. Here, now don't tell the truth. So how many times have we suggested things? Well, now we're proposing things. So when it was a budget, how many amendments did you refuse? So when we talk about what you're going to do, you're going to have to rebalance, so you're doing it on these things. So stop telling the truth sometimes, fellow Members, because it's really not right for these people who are trying to do something about this country here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110381	Okay, you used this for replica, so you get a warning, that's your third warning. You're losing your word until the end of the debate on this subject. Answer. Excuse me, Eric Fabianic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110382	I know it's in such a budget of VAT when you refer to, therefore, budget revenue, VAT, when you refer to our citizens working outside. But there is another item that is also important, and then it can be measured exactly how much VAT from people working outside comes from abroad, and that's what this country has forgotten to do for a long time, but now de facto it taxes income tax back 5 years for something it could do over and over again, and thus de facto, and it has put people working outside at risk just because they missed people informing that, if they have a residence in Croatia, they are working abroad, this, they are obliged to report income in this country as well. So it is also measurable growth and income tax, but also VAT that comes on that basis which is certainly bigger for those who have also checked out their residence in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110383	Dear colleague Fabianic, thank you for supplementing me. We already talked about it once, and I really didn't mention it today in my debate, but we're full of our mouths of tourism, and here, last year when we had the data, we still don't have the data, in the first half of the year we had more income than our people abroad, than we've earned from tourism, and that's still growing. And not to mention how much money is made by our people who work in Croatia, but who work for foreign companies, who work online, who are connected online and who actually work in a different way than those who are employed by us. It's forgotten. They're billions of kunas nobody's talking about. These people didn't hire this country. Unfortunately. I'm sorry. I'm sorry our youngsters are going outside.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110384	The last replica, respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110385	Thank you very much. My colleague Pavić, I don't know why you're angry, but if someone is lying, you're lying because I don't think you're telling the truth, the truth, the truth, because we're leaving the government in 2011, GDP expressed in billions of kuna, 338, and so 2012. 335, 336 2013, 335 2014 It's only 2015. 344, meaning some 5.6 billion more in that famous, large mandate of the SDP that eventually kicked you out of the party. The average salary in 30 years of statehood was our only time when it fell for 83 kunas at the time of that government of yours that you praise. I mean, what's that? If you need information we have everything here, you don't need to lie. This is math, an exact figure. We don't have much to talk about. Well, there's not a single number since 2016 that's no better than all the ones you've had, that I'm not talking about employment, unemployment, etc. I mean, you have the right to be angry, to be frustrated, but don't argue with the figures that are clear in the day. I mean, don't lie to people please!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110386	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110387	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110388	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110389	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110390	You're getting a warning. This wasn't your replica. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Pavić. Mr. Fighter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110391	You can insult as much as you want, you can also disrespect as much as you want, but you haven't heard a single word of praise from me for that government. I just said the fact, which is that your prime minister at the time claimed that the global crisis would bypass Croatia. That's what I said. If they were there, I didn't say the best results, and that government was as much mine as yours was, as this one is as mine as yours. These are our governments, because they should take care of us. You don't have your own government, and I have my government and you're the only one who disrespects, insults whoever you want, but at least you bring out the truth in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110392	Next is the individual debate of the respected Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110393	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the ministry. I can't be unempathetic to the Minister of Finance. It's hard to write a budget, and it's even harder to write a rebalance. And there's really how, I take off his hat, I take off his hat. But the way you defend that rebalancing is desperate, because we have political pants, we call on the past with a little lack of reasoned debate. That's very good PR, but look, I'm basically like I said for three decades I was in the parliamentary majority that had to defend the budget. Don't get me wrong you're below the level of local HDZ trust me, Boric knows something about it. It's not easy to write a budget, not a rebalance. We have some default parameters, so that's the cost. And on the other hand, look, always these moments can be half full, half empty. Can we just admit one thing to ourselves, that we as a state have problems that are structural. Here we all talk about health care, etc. Structural issues are decisive, only politics has to determine that. So in order to solve some things, we need to politically determine about structural reforms, whether it's health, whether it's something else without further ado. And for that, we should have political will. So if we don't have the strength for structural reform, then both the earthquake and the war in Ukraine come phenomenally well in political rhetoric but we lie to each other, we lie to each other. I'll have the same thing very specific. Speaking of rebalancing, I'll talk about APN. So the day before yesterday, it came out on the web site that credit subsidies were secured in the budget, i.e. in the rebalancing of 50 million kunas and by mathematics, they were de facto already spent. For what reason? Because if we have 2700 so far approved applications, 4200 total. When we multiply it by the average value of the loan, then we've fired that 5 million in the last five months. We shot them. Well, at the same time in rebalancing, we have a 42 million and 600,000 kuna strip. If I were dealing with rhetorical and stylish figures, but I'm not dealing with it, something was taken off of the total assets available to APN that's about 540 million kuna. What I am interested in, from that very point of view, is whether it is Mr. Maric as a proposer of de facto who wrote that budget tell the new minister to press this APN chief of yours a little bit more to do at least with regard to the data from the budget on real estate income. That's where we failed a little bit, so get him to work, so get him to soak the rest of the money. It's one of the options. It's a story that can be told based on numbers, we can tell them differently. Well, I see one other thing here. Then a man would say this rebalance is on my mother. So, after the proposal for a rebalancing has already passed, so I'm going to quote the minister's statement, he says, given the number of requests received normally, and the question is how many will be by the end of the year, so it's over, so the man works over the weekend, I'm taking off his hat to discuss the issue with the prime minister and the finance minister, and it's agreed that these funds will be provided so that he doesn't have to worry about it. So we take it off the rebalance 42 and something million, but here it is, we have a promise that it will eventually come back. Now whether, I'm interested exactly, taking into account the Budget Law, etc. whether there will be such amounts that they can be tolerated within the items so that we do not have to rebalance it no, but that all requests and that, which are procedurally justified, that, that this, that will be fulfilled not because otherwise this is the rebalancing of our mothers, no. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110394	Here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110395	Thank you very much, my colleague Fabianić injured Article 238, and I don't know what this finding of yours was that we are here at a level below the local level as representatives. I mean, I personally really know a lot of our locals and councilmen and regional and state officials, etc., I think that we're all certain abilities and try to offend someone that way, I think what you're going to do in that social democratic, what this party, the association, I don't know, so you have nothing but this state level, maybe everybody below you is not worth it, but it's just below every level that you say it. as one man who ran both congregations and was a politician etc. ... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110396	You win, you get a warning. Please, you get a warning. [[We have a soul.]] Replica, Renata Sablar Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110397	Thank you, Vice President. Let's get away from these, this kind of communication I don't support that way either. Structural reforms, you mentioned them. It has been pointed out many times today that we need a serious structural reform of health, but I don't think that's enough for us to have a terrible problem in the Republic of Croatia and that we need a series of these structural reforms, so please share with us what you think we should do first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110398	In my view, the priority would be what are most, the highest releases in the budget in a way that costs are optimised and rationalized, but the thing is, first of all, we have to build public perception that not everything is great and that it works well. And that we must all be aware of that. And let's also say for example. If you look at the logs, who is to blame because today it may be justified to protest drivers in the sanity transport. Drivers in the sanity transport are drivers who are in their homes of health. So, with whom, let's say, the Ministry of Health de facto doesn't have anything to do with it. And strike you know where, in those counties where that injustice exists. I don't know if you know it, but in the Primorian-Gorski County, they don't strike because it's even and because it's settled. So it's not all the fault of the state either, but we all have to get together to make the system better, more efficient and of course. _Other Organiser Habiting. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110399	There's a final debate coming up. The first is on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the respected representative Zeljko Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110400	I thank the chairman. Here's the good news, though, is that while we're late, we've seen debts and the need to pay these health debts urgently, it's been seen that 27% of the funds are missing so that our fellow citizens can continue to receive health care, so that they can buy medicines because without it, we'll soon be without the necessary medicines. It is also good that steps have been taken to reduce the energy crisis. We know that some 75-6 million will be invested for the cost of filling the Okoli, which is good. We also know that the suppliers will actually get that part or that they will have to invest that part of the money needed to do so, to fill that warehouse. Of course, here I think primarily of natural gas and, therefore, in this rebalancing, we support that these items change and adapt to the needs of our citizens. What I can't figure out is how it's possible that our country is unable to do anything to reach oil and gasoline prices that are more than 40 percent in our country than in Hungary. Unfortunately, I did not get an answer to my reply to Minister Maric, and I asked who made a mistake in his assessment, whether it was the Minister of Health who misplanned or reduced his planned size in the Ministry of Finance. It would be good to hear that answer today so that we know whether the Minister of Health is completely lost in his evaluations or if someone has decided in advance that health services will be reduced, and with our fellow citizens who have health problems as they are, let them go to Slovenia and ask for help in other EU countries as well. I will repeat the question again what about the funds that were to be planned and reserved for the North Development Agreement. Ministers here are not just about Minister Fuchs how you responded to me because the signing of the agreement was made by the prime minister and 7 ministers, so these are projects that are related to the 7 ministries. Here we have our colleagues from the northwest, you have heard it, you have read it, you have been present, you know what has been signed, but here, unfortunately, from 27.12. to this day, no meeting has been held, and there is no initiative by the ministry that this money really is invested in these projects to be invested in. I ask you this on behalf of the residents of 5 northern Croatian counties who are happy to threaten to sign the agreement, and now they wonder why the northwestern is forgotten and why nothing is done under this agreement, why nothing is happening, why the ministry does not respond to meetings, why there is no progress from the signing to today. Just to remind you that there are extremely important projects here, some projects are also related to almost all counties such as. Construction of the fast railway line Čakovac-Varaždin-Bellhead-Krapina-Zabok-Zagreb so-called. No sign of voice since the beginning of any activity on that part. And what the county would like to see is that the sooner we start, unfortunately, so far, nothing is solved. So this isn't the Minister-related Minister of Fuchs, this is about the other minister. You answered me today that there is no Minister Fuchs, so you can't answer these questions to me, but I repeat again the seven ministers who were at the signing of this agreement and in fact these projects refer to the 7 ministries. We have these very important projects that are also related to the growth of the economy, there are educational institutions, there are also health institutions. Let's not forget that this is about just this part of the eye, about these 15.2 billion kuna projects, and then there are 754 million kuna for the economy and industrial transition of the north of Croatia and another 65.5 million kuna for the preparation of project documentation. So that's all missing, I don't see it in the budget, and I'd like to see it, and it would be good if I could get information, so this way, I'm asking you to send me information on what's going on with these projects, where they're in the phase, where the items were planned or not planned at all, or not planned at all. And lastly, I would also ask government representatives and representatives of the ruling majority to stop simply dealing with politics, not to talk about the reforms that are supposed to be implemented anymore, because you know that they will not be implemented, but that you again and finally start to deal with politics and start managing the state and state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110401	Following is the final debate on behalf of Green-left bloc advocates, respected Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110402	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, means several times when we talked about the budget here, we said that what it is for us is crucial to see both the policy and the public policy that the government wants to implement. It is very clear what this government is giving priority, and what it is actually taking away some potential for development. In this regard, although my colleagues and colleagues have already talked about individual items and individual problems, I will say something about amendments because our amendments also express our policy and what we consider a priority. For example, we are asking for an increase in the allocation of assistants from 29 to 35 million kuna for the reason that for almost 8 years, continuing assistants are being financed from the ESF of the European Social Fund and, meanwhile, the number of students who need this type of assistance as well as the number of assistants has increased multiplely. The standards set during this series of years have now become truly a valuable part of the education system and are an important step both in inclusiveness and in equating the educational and social opportunities of our students. For this reason, we believe it is necessary to increase this amount because many units of local self-government do not have the financial capacity to finance the work of the required number of assistants in the follow-up, and then we also have large regional differences where this service is available, and where it is not in case we do not actually have enough funding from the state budget. Another thing that also shows what we are giving priority to as a public policy is that we are looking for an increase in funding for civil protection projects from 2.8 million kuna to 42 million kuna. Because it is clear that the biggest threat to us, the biggest threats are related to climate change and are related to floods, fires and other accidents that we have witnessed for many years. In this respect, we need to strengthen the overall capacity of civil protection and invest in it. We would also like to stress that especially small units of local self-government are not able to develop therefore systems that contribute to civil protection and therefore give this increase absolutely necessary. We also ask for the implementation of the National Plan to combat corruption from 16.5 thousand kuna to 2 million kuna. We don't think that 2 million kunas are enough, but either delete that item from the budget or because really 16 thousand kunas are written to be given to implement a corruption control programme in a country where corruption is perceived as the biggest problem is really funny or we're going to give serious money for it. Now we come up with a phenomenal, phenomenal phenomenon in our budget that really reflects the state of mind of our Minister Banozic. So, let me just tell you how he sees the politics of the defence of the Republic of Croatia. For the development of the cyber capabilities of the Croatian military, he proposed to allocate 8.5 million kuna, while, for example, asking for 10.5 million kuna for spiritual care. Here's what people tell you, it tells you everything where Croatia is and where we are in the century. So cyber security and cyber attacks today are one of the biggest and most real threats that we have, and you have it in the reports of both MORH and SOA and VSOA, but we will not give it any more for spiritual care than for the development of cyber security. In that sense, of course, our amendment goes too. We are also asking to increase from 3 million kuna to 13 million kuna to improve the protection of victims of domestic violence, while these funds are taken with administrative support from the University of Defence and Security. Why the University of Defense and Security? I don't know if you remember when Minister Banozic represented the project here at the university said he didn't need budget funds. How are the budgets now needed? And as much funds as it's supposed to be budgeted. We also ask for the funds to be provided for the introduction of civil education and education, while reducing support to the Croatian Catholic University in Zagreb would also show what the policy of the 21st century of this government is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110403	Following is the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Marina Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110404	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers along with their associates. Here's to the end I promise not to use all five minutes so we can leave a little early today and especially respect all of you who have been here all day in the assembly and followed this debate. Here it is, the first rebalance of this year's budget I'd say nothing new, something we've seen in about the past years, maybe something we can expect in the coming years. Incomes are increasing by over six and a half billion kuna. If we're going to talk a little bit about structure, of course we're looking forward to increasing tax revenues that are the main revenues of any budget. When we look at profit tax, the planned income from profit tax increases by some 900 million kuna. Of course it also outlines certain increased economic activity, i.e. expected economic activity. As for the increase in VAT and the minister explained, and today it was debated whether this led to an increase in inflation and the fact that the basis for the tax return has increased or economic activity. The minister also mentioned on the board yesterday, probably a combination of each other. It's not just inflation. There is also increased economic activity. Of course, this can also be seen through increased and increased employment and wage growth, which is then re-drawn on increased planned revenue from contributions. A happy and billion kunas planned more than EU funding. As for expenditure, of course the most important thing was health care. The minister made it clear that as long as he doesn't get rid of his health structure, we'll have about the same story. It's just that it's been missed initially in budget planning for this year when we brought it in by about 27% last fall. I wouldn't agree with that. In fact, the logic and policy of the Government is clear, i.e. the competent minister, who every year in the budget is actually as much in his capacity as he is trying to say so to trust as much as possible, and then as the year goes, then follow the natural rebalancings that are somehow reflecting and happening throughout the year. So in addition to increasing the resources for health care, for pensions, of course we have an increase in funds caused by some kind of mishap, of course by the situation in Ukraine by Russian aggression. When I finally talked about the budget last fall, too, that I also looked back on potential risks, we had a coronal virus in progress, a smoldering inflation, and somehow we all called for it to be. But there's the devil in the second month who'd have thought he'd be at war, so there's a problem with energy. No one expected it. Of course, it is up to the government and the Ministry to adapt and respond. And then again we have those energy measures that came in this spring, early spring, and we see actually the results of that in this year's budget. I'm glad to see the public service salary rise by 4% again, of course we need to secure the funds for that. I remain responsible for saying that public services have low wages, much lower than they are in the real sector. And the problem is actually to keep and win the highest quality people in public service. I know that from an example of local self-government, and I'll always be on the rise in salary as much as it allows for the budget. I am pleased to see 104 million kunas increase the budget for sport. We somehow know how important it is to us and how much we love to boast about it, and every increase, of course, is commendable. I'll just take a quick look around. There were complaints here that for energy prices to rise, inflation that it was deserved by the government, or the government's mistake, and when something is good, when wages rise, when employment is growing that it's the result of the market. Totally wrong I would say, we cannot say that the policy measures of this and the previous governments are not responsible for the increase in wages and for the increase in employment. And just for a little while, as far as the budget law is concerned. I don't think it's an invisible law, a law that goes under the radar. I would say that to whom a very important law can actually be observed and as some guidance for the use of the budget, modernizes, facilitates actions. That's it. Thank you from me. The HDZ club supports it. But cut it short! [[/Intruder: For a second!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110405	Here's what we've exhausted the debate with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue tomorrow morning at 9.30 p.m. Final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing infrastructure for alternative fuels. SESSEN INTERNAL IN 19.44 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110785	We will now move to the agenda, as we have announced we have a joint discussion on 3 points, these are: - Proposal for amendments and additions to the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and projections for 2023 and 2024, together with the proposal for amendments and additions to the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and projections for 2023 and 2024. And '24. for Croatian Water, Croatian Roads, Centre for Restructuring and Sales, Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency, Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Croatian Highways, HZ Travel and HZ Infrastructure - Final proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022, second reading, P.Z. No. 202 and - Proposal for a Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the year 2021 is proposed by the Government on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution, Article 39. Budget law and Article 211 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and pursuant to Article 109. Budget law. The adoption of the State budget shall be subject to the provisions of Articles 211 and 212. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The final draft of the law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on the Economy and the Defence Committee. I remind you of the article. 38. The budget law whereby all amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed State budget and projections must not exceed the amount of the permitted deficit of the State budget and projection. During the debate on the proposal of the State Budget and projections, amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amounts set out in the State Budget and projections may be adopted provided that a reduction of other expenditures and expenditures in a specific part of the budget is proposed at the same time. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. With this in mind, I warn that only those amendments drawn up under the Budget Law will be referred to the parliamentary procedure. Art. 212. The Rules of Procedure set out that it cannot be voted on the amendments submitted and the budget as a whole before they expire 3 days from the date of the debate. Before I give my word to the respected Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric, we have several requests for a break. First in line is a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110786	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This rebalancing is the result of two facts. The first, indisputable which we all witness from day to day is growing inflation. However, the other thing is that some things, when the budget was passed, are not well planned. When the budget was made very clearly, we said, you did not foresee health care funds to a sufficient extent. The result, the debts are growing, the obligations are not settled and we need to have a rebalance and we still don't predict enough funding, so we can say with certainty now that in the 9th or 10th month we will have other rebalances, and maybe even by the end of the year and 3rd. However, there is another serious problem in this rebalancing, which is the problem of rebuilding, and I would therefore ask the minister to answer one question immediately in his opening statement. Why are the reconstruction funds cut down? We know that inflation has been particularly affected by the rise in the price of construction material, which means that any house that is being renovated will be more expensive than it would have been a year or two ago. To that inflation, instead of raising funds for reconstruction to speed up, we're reducing them. That's why I'm asking you honourable ministers and Vice-President of the Government to answer this question that may be a little bit out of the portfolio of finances, but not from your government vice-presidents and to tell us why the funds are being reduced to the refurbishment fund and to the amount that goes beyond 100 million kuna. And finally, Your Honor, Mr. President, one request to you. Given the vastness of matter and that we haven't returned to those pre-pandemic settings completely, that the time for clubs extends to 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110787	It's already done. And it's self-initiative. [[I'm sorry.]] Nothing. The second one's a colleague of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110788	Thank you very much. Please pause for 10 minutes on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club. Today we have an extremely important topic to discuss, it's a rebalance, but I think the topic of the debate when it comes to rebalancing is going to open up about something else. The topic of discussion will open up the state of our health. There are two winners, if they can call it that, this budget, and those two winners are two ministers whose last name begins on B and who run a dead race which of them will be the worst minister now in this government. It's about Minister Banozic and it's about Minister Beros. If we need to decide who is less capable of doing his job, it is difficult for us to decide who is involved. This budget, or rebalancing, regardless of what is on the subject of the crown and in the topic of war in Ukraine is actually about the problem we have in health care. And the problem we have in health care is not Minister Maric's fault, he's guilty as Deputy Prime Minister, but not as Finance Minister. He's doing technical work here, but the culprits are somewhere else. Somehow it seems to me that it would be polite and elementary that these two ministers were there and that we actually have opportunities and some questions to ask them, but whenever the topic of rebalancing is, we're talking about numbers, and we're not talking about the essence, why we're going into rebalancing and what the topics are. I can't and can't touch the renovation. Who in the public space remembers more that he became a minister named Darko Horvat? It's hard to remember him anymore, and he's guilty of why there's no renewal. And this unfortunate Minister Paladin is fortunately the lights of the public were somewhere else, and he is beneath all of this and through this budget is actually shown to be not going to be, and the last hole on the playing, the valid Minister Paladin's restoration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110789	The apartment is approved. Comrade Troscott, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110790	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and respected colleagues and colleagues. The Mosta Club has calculated for the purposes of this debate today how much damage inflation will actually be in the Republic of Croatia. And we don't see it in the discourses, we don't see it in the debates, we don't see concrete figures of that damage, which, if there's inflation that will present our minister today, in Croatia are about 15 billion or 20 even. And if it goes beyond the two-digit inflation figure, we're going to have an inflation cost of 25 billion kuna, which is somewhere around 5 Peljeka bridges, and nobody's discussing how we're going to do that damage today. That we have a concrete strategy in which we will compensate and how this damage to inflation that awaits us as a whole society will be financed in the future because it always hurts inflation as a whole. That's who she is. And the second thing, the reason we're here today, the main reason is the health rebalancing. So we in this health care have a problem, so the minister is accused of investigating two affairs or more of them. Now this enters the corruption sphere that has been recalculated in Croatia and you have at today's rate the cost of corruption in Croatia is 70 billion kuna. And if we add up these two components today, so the damage to inflation on the one hand we have the cost of corruption that's 90 billion to you, that's half of today's budget that we haven't even started the debate, half the budget. And instead of really dealing with inflation and dealing with corruption, where the minister who apparently affected his paparazzi and his when he had political.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110791	Thank you. The apartment is approved. Comrade Bice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110792	Mr. President of the Assembly, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Focus and Independent MPs requested a break of 10 minutes. Before us is the change and addition of the Republic of Croatia's 2022 budget, I will say that it is also caused by the economic situation, so by the increase in inflation and by, of course, reducing the forecast for GDP growth in Croatia by 2022. It's just that things have turned one way instead of 7% of the growth in the economy, we're going to have two and something, and instead of 2% of inflation, we're going to have almost 7.5. However, when we look at what the money is going to be spent on, what it is to increase it is health-returning the same figures as it was in 2021, the purchase of an anti-aircraft system for our Croatian army after the drone crash and a few other things. I'll say there are a lot of things missing here that are not in any way foreseen in the state budget. In fact, the government of the Republic of Croatia has made measures to support the citizens before the Ukrainian crisis and the Ukrainian war. This state budget does not provide for any additional measures, and that should be the case. With such an inflation increase of 5% and something in January, 9% in April would expect it to be a taste of this budget, that means helping the standard of living of citizenship, pensioners, those who work to help the economy and other parts of the EU are already working on new measures and are already implementing them, and we are standing at zero. And to this end, if we expect it to not cause any earthquakes on a series of special and special parts of the economy like agriculture, and in this case I'm talking about construction that has fixed contracts, that's what's missing, which is missing. and what we expect it to be in the budget, which it isn't. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110793	The apartment is approved. Here you go, fellow Sacic. Comrade Byse, just turn off, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110794	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, we declare and ask for a 10-minute break in order to give all of you colleagues and colleagues a special support. By reading the draft budget rebalancing, we are truly unsettled and found that again this proposal of this important document does not make any significant efforts to improve the work of the DORH, the USKOK for the bodies most responsible for the pursuit of crime in Croatia, nor does it provide them with room for pay raises, nor does the material and technical conditions of work have a declarative all, and in reality their hands are tied and given to the fact that financial and abusers of that obligation by the authorities that they must ensure their resources for unlimited, independent work by the constitution that is guaranteed to them, our Prime Minister, unfortunately even the president of the state are unpunishedly allowed to call and call, call the phone to call the chief state attorney to do so, you must not do this. We need to be sharper and financially secure them to be independent, and then criminally prevent everyone regardless of what authority he maintained if he threatens the state's attorney to end up in prison, as courts are neatly protected in criminal acts, so in recent years we no longer have any more trips from politicians that the court is not worth it, that he's lying, that he's corrupt, etc. in a specific case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110795	The apartment is approved. And here you go, fellow Wolfie.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110796	I thank the chairman. So on behalf of the Club For Fair Croatia I also ask for a break of at least 10 minutes. Today, we need to explain through this agenda point the draft budget rebalance. What is important is to say that our citizens would understand, so the state plans to spend more than 9.2 billion kuna. I'll just point out that the state has collected more revenue from value added tax in the last period of as much as $1.8 billion, when we talk about revenue from contributions there, more than $1.9 billion, I mean that our country seems to have profited in this crisis, and the question is, in fact, how many more of these tax burdens, cuts, levies, gatherings of our citizens and our entrepreneurs can still endure. We expected the state to correct its consumption, however, this is not happening, and I will take advantage of the moment so I will mention that here is the minister, and this minister is part of the ruling ones who presented to us several years ago the method that was supposed to lead to a reduction of 1.5 billion kuna as the Standard Cost method, a method according to Standard Cost model which is actually an internationally recognised methodology that was developed in the Netherlands, which was only meant to lead to a reduction of therefore 1.5 billion kuna and this cost of business to our entrepreneurs, so we should administratively relieve them or administratively relieve our entire economy. That's not what happened. Why do these methods still not apply? Are we aware of the moment in which we live and when we will start using the methods we apply? Developed Member States and lead to savings to citizens. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110797	Thank you, colleague Vukovac. The break has been granted. Here's another request, colleague Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110798	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to show again how the budget rebalance is really needed. In fact, the previous year in 2021 was the year, Covid was the year in which we were very fast and with a very high growth of 10.2% came out of the crisis. However, here is the beginning of this 2022 that led to new geopolitical problems and tensions, which in fact led to certain problems and in supplying energy and inflation growth, etc. All this has actually resulted in this government having to worry further about all the effects that this crisis is causing, and this means taking care of exactly the sustainability of the system, both health and pension, and also helping citizens with those inflationary movements related to energy. Therefore, this budget and this rebalancing are precisely contributing to the fact that citizens and citizens can withstand all these attacks that are actually exogenous and that they cannot really resuscitate themselves. Therefore, this rebalancing proves precisely that it is necessary and that in this way it can be very well managed by the financial situation in the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110799	The apartment is approved. My colleague Posavec the Sinner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110800	Thank you, Your Honor. Like other colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, please pause for 10 minutes. We would like to point out on this occasion that this budget does not come from, this budget rebalance does not stem from the situation in which we are brought into the global situation in Europe in the world this year, but we are already in rebalancing because of the poor planning of this government and the fact that the essential reforms that are necessary for this country are missing. And Minister Maric himself has often said that he has not seen the health reform that Minister Beros has been announcing all along, and it is obvious that there is no unity in the ruling majority about what he is and whether health reform is needed. And if health reform is needed, every year they show us rebalancing and show us budgets when we have to patch holes to actually come to the collection of health claims on stables, as they like to say 120 days for pharmacies, or 180 days for hospitals. So from year to year repeats the same scenario on our rebalancing, we always take money for patching holes in health care, that health care, the system must come to a level of self-sustainability, it must in no way lose quality and availability for our citizens, which unfortunately in recent days and months we are increasingly witnessing in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, we believe as Social Democrats that the private system cannot and must not be an alternative to a good public health system in the Republic of Croatia and that this government, among the first reforms it must implement, is to implement a reform of a sustainable public health system that will benefit all citizens, and not that we will patch from year to year.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110801	Thank you. Now we're gonna take a break by 11 o'clock and 15 minutes. After that, we will be contacted by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. It's 11 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:15 A.M.]] As I announced now, the State Budget Rebalancing Proposal will be presented to us by Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110803	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's at the beginning my apology at the vote, here's everything I've done but I haven't been able to fully return it, but I think it'll hold up, hopefully I'll take the lead to answer all your replicas, or, if necessary, during the debate and all the other questions. And in these explanations of the break, a lot of questions have been raised, I believe, and most of the replicas will refer to health care, inflation. It's also mentioned in the renovations. At first, I will say, therefore, not to reduce the funds for reconstruction, they increase by nearly 300 million kuna when all these sources are looked at and I think that as far as the renovation itself is concerned, I would simply respond to the Law on the implementation of the state budget, we included several provisions and in some way adjusted to make the withdrawal of funds both the Solidarity Fund and the Rehabilitation Fund and those other sources of the state budget as simple, more passing, more efficient as possible. Therefore, it is a very simple sentence regarding the reconstruction of no reduction in funds, although the funds have been increased, but the procedures for the use of certain funds have also been facilitated. A few weeks ago, the government adopted a convergence programme at its session, which, among other things, updated the macro-economic projection for this year. And what we did was done by a number of other actors, and so did the European Commission a few days ago. Fitch Ratings Agency also a few days ago, leading analysts etc. This year's growth projection has been adjusted to a slightly lower level as regards the government from 4.4% to 3%. The main and basic reason for this or two main reasons are on one side a high and higher base last year, because the growth last year was actually above all expectations. 10.2% of GDP growth in Croatia is the second highest growth in the EU. On the other hand, given the still very high level of uncertainty mostly related to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, but also everything related to energy prices, food prices generally announce the rise of interest rates and some greater achievements and, of course, we always retain in our macroeconomic projections a certain level that actually gives us a maneuvering space so that we can react as needed but also do everything possible to reduce these negative repercussions, and positive effects as much as possible. A similar theme and similar arguments can also be used in our inflation rate correction for this year, the average inflation rate, that consumer price index we adjusted to a higher level of 7.8%. As many analysts as I have followed in both Croatia and abroad, this is also the highest assessment of the Republic of Croatia. Realisations of the first four months, on Monday, the State Statistics Institute published data on April and inflation of 9.4% actually confirm that our projection is on real ground. However, as with GDP, there is also a whole series of negative risk factors. In translation, unfortunately, the rate is also in a slightly higher amount. However, of course everything we can and within the scope of the possibility I will speak on behalf of fiscal policy, but I am sure that the monetary policy that is independent, which corresponds to the Croatian Parliament, also thinks about what and how it can be done to ensure, among other things, that these inflational effects, the effects are mitigated because ultimately and the fundamental objective of the Croatian National Bank is to maintain price stability. So not only fiscal policy, but also monetary policy. Based on this macro-economic framework, we have set out to correct, but not only the macro-economic framework, but also the achievement of budget revenues in the first four months, and half of the fifth month is behind us. And based on that, a new framework for the revenue side of the budget was created. Total revenues increased compared to the original plan with 6.6 billion kuna. One note, and with the basis of yesterday's discussion on the parent board which was of great quality, I would like to thank the president, the deputy and all the representatives of both the Assembly and those outsiders who took part in the debate as well as a suitable home budget committee, and according to reports and information from my colleagues and all the other committees have indeed passed in one constructive tone. So what I'm saying is that this rebalancing, like every time we bring you this set and a set of materials, is always in line with the Budget Law that prescribes how and how the tables should look, as compared to what they compare. We have also made one addition to the budget itself, and also one presentation that is publicly available, which you have, I see that many of you have in benches to compare numbers more easily, because we distinguish three let's say so columns or columns. On the one hand, it's the original budget for this year. In the meantime, it is in accordance with the legal powers of certain redistributions that we have made corrected on the current plan, and now we have a new plan, so here is the basis and remarks that we have had in the previous debate on budgets and budget rebalances, and we have improved this way of reporting, so that it is also simpler for you to have the debate, for your presentation on behalf of clubs individually, but also above all, of course for our citizens. 6.6 billion kuna increases compared to the original plan of the revenue side of the budget, of course preceding tax revenues. Now, that's where we come to the most important part, and that's the expense side that we're most interested in with all due respect for the revenue, of course. The spending side, I heard you say nine.2 billion kuna a little while ago when you're only looking at the expenditures from the so-called so-called. General sources. What affects the result of the budget is what we call it according to the accounting final plans 1, 2 and 8. So what we actually collect as general tax revenues and distribute, or as such, have an effect on the overall result. When we look at all the sources, when we add both European funds and our own and dedicated revenues, then it's an increase of 10.9 billion kuna to the total total state budget. You've been working through the ministries, just following up on what I just said about the original plan, the current plan, the new plan. However, in this presentation material, we summed up the most important items, to extract from it all what is really important and to present it to the high home, but also to present it to the Croatian public. So, the biggest increase in, refers to health care. Only in terms of obligations to suppliers, wholesale drugs and everything related to drugs, sanitary material and other 3.5 billion kunas broken between hospitals or pharmacies, so through the ministry or HZZO. You know that HZZO has been out of the Treasury since 2013 and 2014 but has been in a consolidated general state. So I'd say less important. 3.5 billion all together. It is not only that health care is further allocated to funds as well as to education for certain court rulings. There are additional allocations for a clinical hospital center in Rijeka, almost 50 million to get this project, which as much as I can hear in the Primorje-Gorski County and in Rijeka very well and recognized and known so that, in this way and with these means, it will in fact all come together and end up. Also, the second largest item of the increase is pensions and pension incomes, I always clearly want to send messages unequivocally as far as our pensioners are concerned. We spent an indexation of pensions of 2.2% on Friday on the anniversary between the other and the existence of HZMO, the so-called "HZMO". a coloquial energy supplement for pensioners as one of the measures in that anti-inflation package or in terms of mitigation of inflation effects. I believe that many of our parents, grandparents have already confirmed, I've checked, it's sat down. This measure, both in terms of pensions and pension incomes for the second half of the year, is currently difficult to project and say decidated, but very certain that the indexation of pensions will be higher than this first one. And according to that, a clear, unequivocal message to the pensioners as much as possible will provide the funds. Therefore, pensions and pension incomes are never, nor will they be under question as such. In addition, of course, a whole series of things in the budget itself, I will point out that everything related to the Ukrainian crisis also in the rebalancing process whether we are talking about renovating and obtaining additional goods for our goods, not only because of their filling, but also because of the disturbance that is happening in Ukraine as one of the major and agricultural and food factors at global levels, given these disorders are already being seen, and here are the additional disturbances at global levels, and, among other things, we have done certain things, but also in view of the fact that the already significant number and Ukrainian citizens have come to the Republic and that we have taken care of them and that we will take care of them. You know, all the measures the government has said among other things, including the measure that we will subsidise private accommodation and the adoption of Ukrainian refugees. Also, the fourth, major item in terms of rebalancing is our agreement with the unions of state and public services, this time all, all union representatives, or those who are representative, signed a new basic collective or collective contract where 4% of the basics have been recognised, increasing systematic checks, transportation and a whole series of other measures which, with due respect, but financially are slightly smaller volumes but are certainly important to improve the material status of our employees. There are, of course, resources allocated to agriculture, defense and guarantee reserve. I think here's how many times I tried in my 7th year as Minister of Finance and a whole series of budgets and rebalancings I didn't think of a single time that we worked out a guaranteed story, maybe I was wrong, this time we had to take into account the 32m-euro protested guarantee the other day, etc., etc. All those items of interest, of course, feel free to ask, I'll try to answer something. Anyway, let's go back to the total picture. 6.6 billion in state budget revenue. 10.9 an increase in the expenditure of the state budget and only when we look at the state budget is that, as a result, there is an increase in the total deficit for some 4.3 billion kunas. However, extra budget funds, local self-government, is local self-government, regardless of what is not the subject of our debate today and we do not discuss and vote as such, we can of course touch, but they also record significantly better revenues. The investment cycle and some dynamics of achieving the results so far both last quarter and first quarter of this year show that the result will be better and the deficit will be lower, and we also need to make some adjustments for that ESA 2010 system, which is comparable to all EU Member States. Now when all this is summed up, consolidated and adapted to our total deficit of the general government by the ESI, that's that main data growing from 12 billion to 13.4 billion kuna. So from 2.5% of gross domestic product to 2 commas or 2 whole 8%. We believe in government as we have since 2016, each year one of our united points is budget implementation 2021, so I'm going to spend one brief sentence on it. Every year and even in that very pandemic 2020, we achieved a budget better than we expected. Last year, compared to the last rebalancing of the 4.1% of GDP deficit, the deficit was 2.9%. So, what I ordered yesterday and on the parent board, I'm going to say now. Of course, we will do everything possible to make the budget better, you know, with extra income, and all these years ourselves, we have wisely focused on tax discharge and on reducing the share of public debt and, in general, on public debt, and we have kept the expenditure despite all the possible challenges that we have faced, we have actually kept within the scope of what we originally predicted. I always end up with that picture or graph about a public debt that speaks much more than all of my word muffled but it actually shows that in all these years we have a constant path towards reducing the share of public debt in GDP, the only exception is in 2020 where we had a one-time increase effect due to the pandemic year. A short time ago, a respected representative of the Troscott, among other things, told about these calculations regarding the cost of inflation. It's really hard to quantify all of this together, and we're doing it that way, or we're going to do the calculations, but just as far as COVID is concerned, to this day, 42 billion kuna, 42 billion kuna, the direct cost of the state budget, just the state budget. They know entrepreneurs and businessmen, they know how much all of them cost. I'm just talking about 42 billion kunas that COVID cost us the beginning of the outbreak of the pandemic itself of the state budget. And in line with these challenges, and many others, fiscal policy when you look at, say, reports... which, a few days ago, has kept us the historic highest credit rating, so triple B, one step even more than that level of distinction between below investment and investment, with positive prospects where it is very clear, if you do not fail, and I deeply believe that we will not, however, think that we will be better in fiscal policy than these figures and, of course, if the process of introducing the euro continues as planned and there is no significant delay and we also believe that it will not continue to do so, that is, to continue in accordance with our plans, the credit rating will be further improved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's what I'm telling you, among other things, that when we talk and some retrospective of all these years and many of our discussions that have always been extremely constructive and I've always enjoyed discussing and talking about them, but you actually see what kind of confirmation we have among other things on the international agenda, because these are still institutions that don't look at only Croatia, they look horizontally at the whole world, all countries and they know very well what is and how and how this is happening, and here is this new crisis which is clear that it is also global, is not Croatian inflation in any specific way. The latest data also, we're back somewhere in the middle again, when you've been looking at the past 12 months. something slightly above average, however, we must not just say that finding and the fact that nothing can be done, so we went with a package of measures that is also recognised in this rebalancing because many measures, most measures, in fact, have actually entered almost everything on April 1st this year and all of this has been implemented together and implemented through the budget rebalancing itself. A very important point with this rebalancing itself is and the law on the implementation of the state budget, it's usually, we don't spend too many words but here's the time that's left I'm going to spend on it, on the implementation of the budget, I think I actually said about last year, that we have a much better result than we expected, but who's interested, of course, and who has a greater interest, feel free to ask. The law on the implementation of the state budget that always goes traditionally with the budget itself or rebalancing, we originally wanted to change it once more this year before the rebalancing itself for one simple reason, has been implemented by the new budget law that you voted for, which has brought some new improvements and improvements to the system itself. Now, and because we have a new law and some new moments of the whole series of provisions, the law itself has been corrected, so it's not really any changes or additions, but a new law on the implementation of the state budget for this year, so, among other things, it's been further regulated to take on multi-annual commitments on the burden of the budget, it's exactly the respected agent Grbin, one of the things I said and the renewal proposal, and we've made it as much easier and simplified, or improved the efficiency and efficiency, the passing of the use of funds, as I repeat once again, the Fund for Reconstruction, and the Solidarity Fund and other sources. Also, additional arrangements are being made for advances, the foundation and our experiences so far, relations with a number of budget users in the Ministry of Finance, we have adapted certain provisions. The possibility of calling a public call, a very important item, the state guarantees may not be able to reach all of them now, but I will try through other replicas, yesterday she was on the parent committee discussing the issue, on the one hand, the HAMAG and HBOR get the powers to issue guarantees for the name and account of the Republic of Croatia which are well related to the use of the resources of the National Resistance and Recovery Programme. After an advance of 800m euros and some million euros, we will receive or receive in 6mm. among the first countries because we met 34 measures, an additional 700 million. We continue with this dynamic and can freely say that we expect another 700m euros in December at the end of the year. HBOR and HAMAG will be important levers for the use of these funds, however, as far as guarantees are concerned, an additional billion euros has been provided, in fact, all of a billion and 100 million euros to provide energy supplies for the next heating season. We work very hard on this and this model when we make up everything we will present, but in principle, our energy players above all, HEP in this way enables a healthy company to make it possible, with a state guarantee of liquid assets from credit institutions, to supply gas because in this season between the two heatings, this is done among other things to ensure adequate supply. The prices, unfortunately, are much higher, but we're also monitoring some kind of movement of these so-called. forward and future contracts apply in the last quarter and in the first quarter of next year. If certain losses are achieved, and we think they will, on the expenditure side of the budget there is an item, an amount of 75 million, whether or not it will be enough, in this moment it is less important, it is important that the item is there and will cover any losses. Opening an account, running a state budget, here's another 7 seconds, I can only thank you for your attention and, of course, I look forward to all of your replicas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110804	Here it is, we have 34 replicas, so you can explain the rebalancing for at least 34 minutes. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110805	Thank you, Mr. President. I have no doubt that, regardless of the vote, my colleague Maric will be able to do so because this is a very important debate and it is very important that you are here and that you are talking about these issues, but I am reluctant to do this, but I must correct you. According to this morning's published EUROSTAT monthly inflation in April in Croatia is the fourth highest in Europe. That's not an average. But let me because you are also the Deputy Prime Minister and this is also a political, not just a financial act to ask you to answer three very specific questions. Support for entrepreneurs due to the inflation and Ukrainian crisis, other countries have begun to give them. My question is when will Croatia come? New anti-inflation measures? Three months ago we went out with a package, he's already agreed we'd gone out of date because the prices went up. Other countries started with a new package. When are we going? And lastly, you expected when we'd finally do something concrete that this By galloping the growth of debt in health care, it stops. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110806	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110807	Thank you very much. So, as regards support for entrepreneurs unlike covid support, where I would say most of it was directed towards entrepreneurs to preserve jobs in these measures as regards mitigation of effects, I use it on purpose because we are all aware that it is impossible to neutralize inflationary expectations, i.e. inflator pressures, that we can only mitigate. There is a greater emphasis being placed and is on the socially most vulnerable groups of people because energy and food in their baskets are not rarely very often actually the only items we call them so unlike some others. However, what we will continue to do and how we will act depends, of course, on the further development of the situation. We're not going from month to month. These measures have come into force on 1.4. We follow, of course, what other countries are doing, and we follow that in some other countries some of these measures have also been closely linked to their election cycles. However, I will say again, as we have so far reacted, so we will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110808	Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110809	Your Honor...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110810	Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110811	Your Honor, Mr. President, I have a note regarding Article 238. The Honorable Vice President and the Minister did not answer certain things, but only one thing about support. It is the European Commission, not only the President of the Commission, but also Commissioner Gentilloni, who pointed out that they now have to send support to entrepreneurs, not only to preserve jobs, but also to preserve their entrepreneurial activities. And imagine what kind of situation our entrepreneurs will find themselves in, if other countries are to provide such support, and we are not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110812	Thank you. Comrade coat of arms, here's a warning. You said it yourself, but I'm calling on others not to do it now because we have 34 replicas and a lot of space to discuss, so don't even use this thing that isn't necessary yet. Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110813	Dear Minister, here are the figures regarding public finances that are not very good for us and for the external factors, but the fact is that we have slow GDP growth in projections. The fact is we're going to have a deficit greater by 1.4 billion and the fact is that we have a historically high rate of inflation for April of over 9.4%. On the other hand, we have internal factors, which is our health system, which is unfortunately a terminally severe patient. Do you still feel that it is wise to enter the euro zone in this situation, or that it will improve for euro area citizens, or that the next budget, or budget rebalance, will be very similar to this, only instead of the kuna, will write the euro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110814	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110815	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we discussed the Law on the Euro last week, so most of these, this second part of your replica, and I answered the questions about the benefits and potential shortcomings, i.e. defects. I'll briefly refer to that subject with the part you said when you said they weren't great. So I think that these figures actually speak best among other things and the European Commission's assessment, so with the fact that we were the second most, means the country with the second highest GDP growth rate last year we are among those countries that had the most, the strongest reduction in the share of public debt in GDP. And when you look at the budget for last year and you look at the budget for this year, I think it really puts us back at the top among the Member States. I'm sorry that Mr. and colleague Grbin came out, so I'm going to connect another comparison with European countries. All the measures we put into that first anti-inflation package, the mitigation is an assessment of their effect over one percentage point of GDP. The European Union average is 0.6 Even the European Commission has said they are very generous. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110816	Comrade Sablar-Dračevac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110817	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister before you means somewhere in the fall of 2020, I've asked you a parliamentary question. It took you almost a year to write me an answer. You wrote the answer on page five, but you didn't answer my question. So, I'm curious about the excise tax laws that you know very well that lex specialis should be transferred to health care. If that billion and a half, two, I think I'm answering now because I didn't get the answer. If I got an answer, I could tell you precisely whether it was directed immediately into health care, if you were aware of how much less complications we would have and how much less debts we would have, I mean, yes, debts are really representative but it would be drastically less if people could plan the funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110818	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110819	Thank you very much. Yeah, obviously it took us a long time to answer, it's not a simple subject and it's not a simple question. Now you're trying to fight me again with my colleague Beroshe, but it's not my relationship with my colleague. All Ministers of Finance and Minister of Health I think they have in the past, and I would say in the future the same relationship. That provision that stands is something that we truly deeply believe should never have existed inside, that only health care is bound by the tax law provision. In any other tax act, it does not relate to the tax regulation of any kind. Anyway, I'll remind you so last year we had a $9.1 billion transfer from the state budget to health care, much more than this number you're talking about. Was that all enough? It's not. That's why I'm always saying the solution to the health issue, it's the same respected representative of the coat of arms I haven't been able to answer, the Ministry of Finance's position has always been and will be that the solution is primarily on the cost side. The future side will contribute, but the cost side is critical.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110820	Comrade Lerotić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110821	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, as you said and saw, incomes are certainly growing, but expenditures are even more and again bearing bad news with a new deficit. However, I would ask a concrete income issue. In Pula, we have an area called Muzil, which makes up a fifth of the total area of the city of Pula. There are all spatial plans to potentially put this into a concession that, and a space that can question certainly over a billion kuna investments. So I'm curious why, when the state obviously can't solve the problem of expenditure doesn't do everything to valorize the valuable assets it has that will generate and the revenues from concessions and incomes from VAT and new employment and therefore resulting in income from the state budget because I'm sure it's your own personal land to look at how to use it, and when we talk about state land, it's unfortunately soldiers who keep it and watch how grass grows.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110822	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110823	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I really can't disagree with your remark. I can talk about general nature, I'm not familiar with individual projects. I'm always about to put every kind of property, mostly of course and state into an adequate function. So, as far as your questions are concerned, or your observations, whether it's better to stand something up or something in some function, the answer is, I think of myself as such. And I'm going to forward your replica and your inquiry to the rest of the matter and to the Ministry of Resort. What kind of cooperation is and what kind of communication is at the level of the resolution ministry with local self-government, we'll check to see if it's in any way and what's actually as planned. However, what I'm saying is the general observation is precisely that one should be among other things where it can be placed in an adequate manner of property into operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110824	Comrade Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110825	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected ministers and vice presidents in the government, as you yourself have said despite all the challenges that have met us from the crown to the Covid crisis to the earthquakes that have done financial damage like 3 crowns, and you yourself have stated that, in spite of all the challenges that have cost us more than 42 billion kuna so far, we still have a record number of employees as many as 42,000 more compared to last year and 80,000 more employees compared to the same time proposed. This rebalancing provides additional funding for salary growth, which has already increased by 32% in the government's mandate, for the further growth of pensions that grew between 20% and 26% in the government's mandate. And also what I want to especially praise is KBC Rijeka, the clinical hospital center that is the biggest investment in I especially commend Croatian health care [[Intruder: Thank you.]] additional funds for that. [[Intruder: Comrade Buric thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110826	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110827	Thank you, well-respected MPs, here as I am, and in the introduction I will start from this last part somewhere 48 million kuna is all expensive additional funds for KBC Rijeka secured. As far as the labour market is concerned, here I would say one thing that I would very much like to do in the Croatian Parliament, and also in the public for a long time, of course not only because of the crisis, first of all, of the pandemic, but also these others, of all of these macroeconomic indicators that we normally read, I'm the one who talks about them most often, we actually come down to the ones that are actually the most important. And that's the employment rate, and that's the level and level of pay, or standard of living. And here, of course, whatever we do, we always need and we can strive for better and higher because in the end, that's the only way we can solve and solve the key challenge of the Republic of Croatia, these are demographic issues. And at the same time, demographic issues can't be solved without a strong economy that speaks among other things and says at least entrepreneurs that the labour market is something, that is, labour force which requires improvement and improvement. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110828	Thank you. Comrade Vukovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110829	I thank the chairman, respected ministers, so Croatia also has a problem with having only 3.9 million inhabitants, and we have 4.1 million insurance companies in the HZZO, only 1.6 million of them are paying additional insurance, not reforming the more serious pension system itself, Croatia is a problem and billions that disappear in various suspicious incentives and subsidies, therefore public procurements in which we cannot notice that they are included in the top private sector itself, along with assistance and politics. We are paying more and more support in agriculture, and we are increasingly producing, whether these are serious problems for you, for which we are expecting some changes soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110830	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110831	Thank you well-respected MPs, so surely what you've listed doesn't reach everything and answer in a minute, but wherever and if any way is recorded that the funds are not used in accordance with some legal provisions of course there are certain legal mechanisms. But beyond that, I'm always about to make certain items that are all the way they should be legally implemented to be questioned among other things. You are, as a representative, always in your argument, let's say you mention the segment of agriculture. I think that here we can agree that many of these support all these years paid and given in agriculture have received certain results, but I think we can agree that it can certainly go where and where better because it is ultimately the global level of figures confirming Croatia's comparison with the RU. Just yesterday, Minister Vukkovic and I had one meeting with representatives of the agricultural sector and there, among other things, the same on that trail of speech, as well as in what way to improve an existing system. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110832	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110833	Thank you very much. Ministers, you spoke of energy, I would only briefly say that the current government boasts in your government that you are the vice president that 10% has accumulated energy in this crisis that we are the best in the EU. However, you very cleverly put it through HEP to local self-government, i.e. to the water lines so that it accumulated electricity in the water lines so that we could pump to the pool, so that in the mountain-mounted mountains we could pump water and that households could get and the economies you had collected no less than 500% with the fact that you had questioned the water supply to our households at all, mainly mountain-mounted areas. So how do you describe it that now as a majority owner in Sinj, I tell your plumber to pay exactly as last year 170,000 kunas of war plus 10% of kuna, and that's how I'm going to do it. And you come and turn it off. The electricity, so let Split have no water, no water [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] A sonic, cetinal end because it's a lie and a deception you covered up lies. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110834	Here's your answer. Please, Comrade Bull, you've been gone for 10 seconds. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110835	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your rep. I mean, as far as energy and energy prices are concerned, I don't think in Croatia who hasn't raised the price, starting from us individuals through entrepreneurs who, unlike citizens, don't have the kind of regime we have, but have, as a rule, contractual relations with individual distributors, thus already mentioned by HEP or gasmen etc., etc. and, in line with the new circumstances, these adjustments have taken place among other things. So it's all going back into the sphere of total inflation pressures on the side of the energy that we've tried and with this package that's gone into effect to ease. But we were as aware then as we are now that they cannot be fully neutralized as such. And what is certainly important is that within those legal provisions that we have and constitutional principles, which is primarily competition, we all behave responsibly only this problem can be solved jointly, and those who think that they can benefit a little bit more from something, I think it should still be put a little on the side.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110836	Thank you. A fellow Bull's injure of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110837	Thank you very much, President. The minister has injured the officer. 238th disdaining MP. 500% raised power for the water supply, 500%. An example of 2 million and 200 last year is now at 10.5 million in this year, and while you're doing it at the same time you tried to use teleopers from eight kunas to reduce to 2.40, to give them 300, 400 million in your pocket, they barely robbed our infrastructure. with the help of... [[Bulj fellow President: Thank you very much.]] Mudrinic, governments.../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110838	Thank you very much for getting your warning, colleague Bulj. You are getting a warning. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110839	What are you yelling at, warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110840	You've been warned.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110841	Jesus got them so look at Boric... I'm telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110842	Come on, buddy Bull, calm down. Let's go... colleague Boric, please stop throwing each other away. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's move on, Comrade Mazhar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110843	Thank you very much, President. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister of Finance. On the revenue side of the budget, which is extremely important for Croatian citizens, we see a strong step in the rapid withdrawal of agreed eu funds, in particular more than 58 billion kuna is paid to the Republic of Croatia, which is more than 70% of all contracted funds. But what is very important over the past week, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said that, thanks to the implementation of the 34th reform of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a prerequisite was created for the first 700m-euro war by the end of June, and 34 reforms include reforms and public administrations and the fight against corruption and health and education and energy and waste management and energy efficiency a building that shows everything the government does. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110844	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110845	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A lot of things I sign daily, and here is the parliamentary question after a year and a few days and a number of negative opinions from the Ministry of Finance. This was one of the memos that I was very pleased to sign, and that is the fact here is the Secretary of State of the County who has been operating amongst other things along with the special adviser of the Prime Minister to make this NPOO, but what we said and then one is one challenge to make it, more importantly to start implementing measures and that is actually what should certainly mention 34 of the 34 measures by the end of last year that we sent to the evaluation, confirmed. Here you have quoted yourself, paraphrased the words of the President of the European Commission, and the 700 million will arrive at us at the 6th month. With that dynamic, of course, we'll keep going. Otherwise, a few days ago, we were communicating the same information when you look at our beginning of our membership, 49.1 billion kuna, more Croatia has been coming in than it has paid in the EU budget. Add NPOO 55.2 billion. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110846	Thank you very much. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110847	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister. The fall will be challenging, it's actually all now the indicators are going according to inflation in the fall, the question is specifically so you said yourself that we've somehow spent this VAT law where you wanted to wait for entry into the euro zone. Please, if you can share here today with us two information, what are some other measures that Croatian citizens might expect in the autumn? It's very concrete that these measures are still going to be autumn I think they'll be much more challenging and not just because of the price of two-digit energys, the price of food just to calm the citizens in the fall, we're always kind of afraid of that autumn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110848	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110849	Yes, thank you very much, Your Honor. You said all right, of course not only in terms of some seasonality within the year, but autumn brings with it after a little vacation who manages to rest, yet the full start of the school year, announcements and general expectations of winter and heating, etc. and then, of course, in this context, we need to consider and further measures. I think as we have so far so can be expected still. The focus of all today is tomorrow possible measures, because I can't do them right now, and I don't want to announce them, and we talk about them, and when it's ready when and if it is, we're going to present them, but focus will certainly be food and energy, so that's two key measures. So these measures that you quoted and mentioned the VAT Act here for a month and a half days have been amended, VAT rates have been reduced and we know very well that we are going to shops to buy what the effects of that are and whether only a good measure of something is giving up in terms of the state budget if it has no effect on the citizens. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110850	Comrade Puljak, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110851	Well, here's the Honorable Minister, I'm actually worried about your health, I see that you've snuck up, just wondering if that's the result of you yelling at meetings all the time, enough is enough, can't it, is it? I don't know. Let me give you that one shirt. That's enough. Well, you're going to meetings with that shirt or for another reason, and you're saying don't fight me with Minister Beroshe, so I think we should have a fight with Minister Beroshe, not just you, but the Prime Minister, because the man obviously doesn't do his job well. You said you were a 7-year-old minister, probably all those seven years you've been hearing the same suggestions, and from even the Committee on Fiscal Policy that says we always need reforms in health, so here I'm asking you actually where is the limit of your patience, when is enough? Last year, 6.4 billion additional unplanned funds have been poured out, this year, here's four, who knows how long it's gonna be till the end, who knows how long it's gonna be, so where's your patience limit? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110852	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110853	Thank you very much and thank you very much for your consideration, it's all good but the voice, it's all good, it's all good, so I'll quickly recover to the amendment vote, I think it'll all be normal, but in any case, I don't think you can hear me and you understand me well, so as far as health is concerned, always for the last few years is the biggest part of our debate and comes down to the health issue, I don't really have anything new or any more to say in relation to all of this and now I'm saying, and it's clear that we health care system preserve as such we have, the pandemic has opened up to all of us even more eyes how important the public health system is, but also, the financial sustainability of the same and the height of the demographic images of doctors, nurses, technicians, the quality of services to all of us as citizens and the whole system as well as such. So, of course, I'll pass on your messages to my colleague Beros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110854	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110855	Thank you. Dear Minister, we in one, we from Most, in one awkward position that what we're saying, to prove true for a few years, means with a delay of 2, 3 years, so we warned HDZ and SDP in electing constitutional judges, see now who they elected in the Constitutional Court. We warned you and the government about inflation, then Minister Coric claimed that we are on call catastrophes, we now see that the forecasts are much worse, even than what we were saying. They also spoke and warned the government that it should not go in the direction of lockdown, not only to the government but also to the left opposition, so with the closure we see, you are saying what the consequences of such policies are for the state budget. I ask you if you are aware of what kind of Croatian citizens currently live in who have paid 5, 6000 kuna, are you aware that they cannot connect the end with the end, that they cannot survive the month and what will the government do?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110856	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110857	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Of course, your position now that you are in opposition, when you are no longer part of the parliamentary majority has changed significantly, and then all your warnings here you can characterise them, that you said something good, right and the like. It's our responsibility to act and we do and we do, so I have nothing special to say to you. So, the inflation at which someone warned or said, so it was very clear and many days ago it was very clear that the growth of interest rates was determined in some way and unmistakable and long before the energy crisis of inflation itself because for many years we lived in a period of historically low interest rates, monetary layoffs and we simply knew all together and well, not only the professional and scientific economic public, but that period must come as such, however, I repeat again, unlike you who, you can allow yourself to warn, we must act and do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110858	A fellow Grmo, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110859	Yeah, he's hurt. 238, because it turns out the minister says that in opposition we speak one thing in government another. These constitutional judges, the godfather of Branko Bačić, Sheparovic, this Mlakar, who falsely presents himself in Austria, were elected while we were part of the government, elected together by HDZ and SDP, and we said as part of the government that this was not a good way. So we also speak as part of the government and as part of the opposition and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110860	And there's a warning. Let's move on, Comrade Begonja, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110861	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, this year is by far unpredictable, the war in Ukraine, the border, refugees from Ukraine, the presence of COVID, inflation, etc., the government of the Republic of Croatia has helped citizens, employees, entrepreneurs and here recently the increase of the foundations of state and public officials. It also helped pensioners to cope with the inflation of energy - related movements above all. I am interested in what effect this can have in this time ahead of us, on the stability of the state budget if we continue to help, if there is a need and what effect can it have on the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110862	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110863	Thank you very much. Your Honor, counsel. Well, here's a few times actually, when you promote it I've talked about it but when you promote and now the replicas that have been sent so far, you have on one side and of course through the replicas, the demands to increase the separation from the state budget, then at the same time, be careful whether public finances are sustainable, is the deficit increased, if we're going to be able to serve all of this. Now, that's all in place, I'd say and our responsibility as a government is to balance it all together. We spoke countless times, and this was confirmed, when the pandemic broke out, all of this sort of thing that I don't say, curtains and some of the dots that existed in public finances were removed, where public finances were constantly said to be their own purpose. They confirmed exactly the opposite, that is, what we kept saying, that we had been doing and doing in order that today-to-morrow when the crisis broke out, we could react and that happened, 42 billion kunas where no one could have expected such a thing to happen, and the state budget, or fiscal policy, stopped. As well as any subsequent crisis, of course, we would have to be aware of both the limitations and the frequency of these same crises. It's not easy, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110864	Thank you. Comrade Greek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110865	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you mentioned something in the introduction about wages and pensions, but the harmonisation of 4% wages in inflation conditions last month was over 9%, so it doesn't cover 50% of the loss to say, purchasing power pays. On the other hand, pension correction in the first term of 2.24% is practically one quarter of inflation. So 75% is a loss of pensioner's purchasing power. And I really appeal to you, I know about what you're going to answer because you said it in the introduction, but I'm appealing for a particular model to be found in particular for the pensioners, with regular alignment once again in the second half of the year helping these people because it's a really difficult situation for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110866	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110867	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So one of the measures in this package of inflation-relieving effects was actually the same focus on pensioners. I'll say it again as I did in the previous line, in line with the overall general possibilities. None happier than either of you or all of you who are present here so that we can narrow down our pensions more and change or fix those relationships that we very often talk about, what is the ratio of the average salary, the average pension, what is the ratio of the number of employees, the number of pensioners, what is the average retirement rate in the Republic of Croatia, etc., etc. So these are all certain things you need, I'd say, consider. When you say pay, I have to react the following way. You've been watching for a year now. Yeah, that's how we discussed it with the unions. Let's watch the periodicals. Since 2016, we do not think that time begins, but you yourself, too, were then in the government, did not correct prices at all, that is, the amount of wages to state and public officials. Compare how much gross, net wages, nominal and real wages have grown.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110868	Thank you. Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110869	Minister Maric, six months ago here in the assembly you assured us that you would achieve savings in the health system by 5.3 billion kuna, although it was quite clear that there is no standstill in this because it cannot result from any health reform that is not available and could not be expected at all that hospitals will reduce health debts. On the contrary, we now see that at the monthly level health debt increases by 400 million kuna. You are now proposing with this budget that this item for health care be increased by 3.5 billion kuna for debt recovery and the financing of increased costs, but you are still hiding the fact that nearly 3 billion kunas remain, which are still unsettled, and the outstanding debts, which are still not shown in the budget. My question to you is, as long as you maintain this collapse of the health system and how long will you send a message to the public that there is no money in the health care system for medicines, but there is no money for suspicious jobs from the Ministry of Health?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110870	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110871	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I really don't think I did it because I certainly wouldn't do it, convince you of something about health care, I'm not the health minister. I answer as a rule to your questions and replicas as well as to many media and for longer than any subject, most I deal with, among other things, health care, but I'm acting as Minister of Finance. So I have to look at the financial sustainability of that same system and as you said in previous replicas, and it's my job and my responsibility when we get to this situation to secure these funds. Am I glad? It's not. I've said that many times. Many times and the only solution we see and all the time we advocate is to make an adequate and quality reform that will reduce this pressure on the revenue side that you do not think Minister Maric or his team is paying for something. That's what we all pay together as taxpayers. Now, and that is why it is necessary on the cost, distribution side, for the 3rd time today, I will probably say, a few more times, my personal attitude, as well as how to achieve the long-term financial sustainability of the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110872	Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110873	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, Your Honor. I also have to refer to health care because, of course, this rebalance shows what problems we're in. A few years ago, I gave you a pack of C vitamins and C vitamins to help you, it'll be better for you, but I don't know what will help our health care, or what I'd like to know, you said a little over a year ago that if, when it comes to health care, if there's any dynamics like this, then you've referred to yourself, we're in the same place for a year, we haven't done anything. I'm afraid your words were not prophetic but true, but worse. What do you do? What do you do? How's that? Because only in half a year will you come, or you will go to the end of the year for the next rebalancing, we know that you and I, next year, or the end of the year will be the new budget, and we haven't done anything in healthcare. So I have a feeling, no matter how much money there is never enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110874	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110875	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm going to thank you once more for that box, she helped, but obviously it's not this next sentence right now, so I'm looking for the next box, but obviously I spent everything in the box, at least according to my voice, it's heard, there's no vitamin C or calcium, it's all gone. In any case, this, similar or simple or the same as in the previous replica and many others, and I can talk about the mandate of this government, on several occasions these resolutions were carried out, more or less on the income side, we had even one situation when for the first time, I think, in Croatian history, we spent a resolution without increasing the public debt and impacting the deficit because we found a whole series of other savings to give the health incentives. And then, like now, we stay more or less on the same and again the same solution and result and I see on the cost side.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110876	Comrade Cappelly, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110877	Your Honor, your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister. The revenues from tourism last year were about 9 billion foreign tourists, if we add up another 1 billion cca domestics we come somewhere to 10 billion and in 2019 they were somewhere with domestics about 12 billion. So it's probably how you calculated the revenues that could be generated this year by the base of fiscalized accounts, you can see this increase, and it's certain that there will be a serious reaction. I would say on this occasion that a very serious calculation, based on the opening, is Schengen space, to count somewhere between 5% and 7% will increase traffic, i.e. activities in tourism. Also, I'm curious a little bit about how they'll resist and the way, we know that the mechanism of reducing inflation is the increase in interest. Will that also reduce investment in tourism? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110878	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110879	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I went to check the fiscalization data right away. Okay. I mean, the tourist season, you know very well as a minister, a former tourism minister who thinks about it, not only in that position but in general. These first 5.5 months in the tourism total may not be so significant, but still, indicators where, when compared to last year, the index of 254 actually says that it is a very good achievement. However, we want and, of course, we will do everything in spite of all these challenges to reach this level of pre-crisis 2019 this year, we were fully aware of that when Covid broke out, that tourism, as well as some other service activities, will suffer the greatest damage and that it will take the longest time to recover as such. But this is a very good point that you said in the second part of your replica, and that's the question of interest rates. I think it's my job and my responsibility to both tourist actors and their investment cycles to send unequivocal messages. Optimism but with argument, which is that despite everything, and this announced increase We need to do everything we can to keep the investment cycles going. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110880	Comrade Kovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110881	I thank the Honorable President, Your Honor. The specific question, here, I've studied that budget a little bit. I'm curious, you know yourself that for a few years now we've been talking about the Center for Education and Education in Čakovec, it's reduced by almost 3 million in this rebalancing, I'm afraid at the end of the year when you're going to do another rebalancing or not being used. You yourself know that, specifically now, former Minister Mr. Horvat, you and I have agreed, two years ago it must have been a specific meaning for the opening of the work of that center. So far, it hasn't moved from the dead spot and anything else I'm interested in, when you were talking about following what other countries are bringing in as measures in the environment, especially as regards energy and food, food products, I'd draw your attention that here, look at neighbouring Hungary where today you have a situation for the residents of Međimurje to go tank and drive fuel cars that can be fueled save up to 400 kuna per tank, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Let's not talk about how much cheaper they are. [[Thank you very much.]] These live supplies. [[Intruder: Comrade Kovac, thank you very much. Here's your answer.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110882	Thank you, Your Honor, for the Center for Education and Education, I immediately think of it, and I see also a representative from Slavonski Brod, Milan Amruš School and similar examples of MPs, also, Pracina from Brod, me personally, therefore, a generic response. As far as we're concerned, we'll secure the funds, we think they're good projects. However, clear conditions need to be created for their fulfillment. I can't, I don't know all the details now, the permits, relations with local self-government, whether there are any objections, whatever, so as such, it's important, among other things, that this item in the budget as such stands, if the dynamics of realisation are accelerated, there will be financial resources, we're not talking about billions here, we're not talking about health care, we're not talking about some reason that we should go into rebalancing or not go into rebalancing, but rather just finishing these projects. Here's the already mentioned school of Milan Amrus is really think all over, I'd say, come to the point of simply saying we should do it, period.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110883	Comrade Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110884	Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, I have to admit, a little government in this world in four months admits to being incompetent. You did it, and now the question, if you admit what you wrote in the budget in 4 months, admit it's not feasible, and you've been warned, it's about health care, you've admitted that you're incapable of managing the system as you predicted. But I have another question, and what you do is try to explain to the citizens who make $4.5,000, who fill the budget that's worth 6.5 billion more than they say, solidarity, you gave 600 million to help with energy, what happened to the rest of the money, and what happened to those additional 4 billion deficits that are emerging, and it encourages the economy that should be the key to where They're getting people's salaries, not at all. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague Brumnic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110885	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110886	Thank you, Your Honor, this first part really has nothing to comment on and go back and forth and ask you when you were doing rebalancing and when you work, I don't know right here in the City of Zagreb or anything like that, but I'm not going to say about this second di. As for the measures to help the economy, I was just talking about it, unlike Covid, where the greatest emphasis was on entrepreneurs, here are on the socially most vulnerable groups of the population put an emphasis. However, also aware that by reducing the rate, say VAT, you don't have to fully hit the target you're targeting because it's not just up to you, cut the tax. Also for other measures. And what you're talking about, of course, is that, as such, it's not easy between the other and the measure that you've put into operation, its full effect as such to see and realize the results anyway, but I think that without these measures, the effects on inflation would unfortunately be even bigger and worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110887	Here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110888	... He's hurt his ankle. 238 insulting me personally because he is aware that the budget in the City of Zagreb, when it was passed, I have several times warned about the things that the City of Zagreb did, which you directly approved because you were the ones who approved of the City of Zagreb because you were the ones who approved.../incomprehensible/... indirect responsibilities of the City of Zagreb because you were the ones who approved the de facto concessions in the City of Zagreb that we see today as having passed, and I am personally you. [[Specially enabled.]] Warned. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much. A colleague, a colleague...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110889	Brumnic, you're getting a second warning. ... Because it's... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] First, let's do this, first a little bit, a little bit, calm down. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So first of all, you've replicated, Minister, the Vice-President of the Government has done nothing to offend you, I guess everyone here is present and everyone watching TV sees it and knows it. So you've now used the breach of the Rules of Procedure to replicate it, and that's why you've been warned, here. ... And my colleague Brumnic, come on, please, so anyone can be offended when someone makes a statement that doesn't suit him. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, come on, then don't be there if it bothers you so much. Let's move on. Comrade Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110890	Thank you, well-respected president of HS, Your Honor, here's the opposite, of course, of course he'll say the opposite side is expected. I think that the government has been faced with a number of difficulties indeed, and this budget has been particularly affected by an increase in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare as well as by the government's financial difficult measures to mitigate inflation and increased energy prices. 157 million were directed to improve the business of social care institutions. Compensation for the threatened electricity buyer 263 million, and what many others in particular, and what I particularly want to stress is that there are increased and secured funds for the implementation of individual activities activities from European funds. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110891	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110892	Thank you, well-respected MPs for that, both on the replica and on the fact that you just recognized what I was saying. That offered by facts and expectations that inflation pressures are about to affect everything, indeed all layers of society, but that in some relative sense it will have a stronger effect on the most socially endangered. And that is why we have tried to respond to them as much as possible, but still aware of the fact that we cannot fully protect or protect anyone, we see both the situation in other countries. All measures, I will repeat once again when you are looking at the entire package that the European Commission has finally verified and in some way characterised as among the more generous because our weight package is over 1 and, 1% of GDP, compared to the 0.6 average, is actually the most talked about. But aware of all the circumstances, the uncertainty, the challenges, of course we can't find out that's what we've done, and in all of this, we've done this right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110893	Hey, buddy Buck, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110894	Thank you. Dear Ministers are expecting us in this second half of this year to re-coordinate pensions. The current value of the pension will increase in 70 percentage points this time with price increases and this pension increase will likely be the largest in the last 10 years. Now, this rebalance envisions an increase in income from pension insurance contributions from 26 billion to 28 billion, but in that second part of the transfer from general incomes and receipts was foreseen in the original plan and has now remained the amount of approximately 19.3 and 19.1 billion kuna respectively. My question is very simple. Will that be enough? In the plan, already in the plan for last year and in the execution of that part, the transfer from the general incomes and receipts to the pension insurance office amounted to more than 20 billion kuna. It seems to me that exactly one billion kuna might be missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110895	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110896	Thank you, Your Honor, yes, as far as the pension system is concerned, I spoke on purpose and initially, among other things, with the intention of sending a message that if the funds are insufficient, it will be provided as such and that the pensioners will in no way come into any kind of concern as to what will happen in the second half of the year. The funds will be provided. It would be great to have this conclusion of yours, as well as mine, that in the second half of the year we expect a bigger increase in pensions and a bigger indexation. It would be great if, in the follow-up to that sentence, it was because of that growth in wages, not because of the growth in inflation. However, circumstances and reality are different. However, in accordance with the positive legal rules, we will carry out the indexation and, outside these positive regulations, we have implemented this one-time supplement payment as well as in Covid, both now and now for energy. And we know for ourselves that there's a very high base and I'll tell you again about the pension system no one happier than me that we can increase more.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110897	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110898	Thank you. I would like to know what the state will do if there is an increase in the interest rates of the European Central Bank and if they produce a recession, a decline in production, an increase in unemployment and a rise in public debt. Whether it will have the possibility to implement anticyclical food policies that would ensure complementary growth of public consumption or will continue to implement the policies of financial consolidation under the rules of the European Stability Pact, etc., taking into account that it is with the crown, and before that, meaning having in mind and some conukture then comes the corona and is put on hold means the pact of that European stability, etc., all the rules of the European Semester. Will we now, in view of inflation, still mean to return and raise the interest rate and return the limit of meaning in the respect in which I have stated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110899	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110900	Thank you, well-respected MPs, you've given everything well, I'd only make one small correction to your replica. He wouldn't even use the futur at all, but he'd already say what we're doing. When it happens, the announcement itself, let's see what the Fed's been doing, we can finally see what's going on in the financial markets. I talked about it in public a few days and weeks ago. We issued a bond at a big week just before Easter for 10 years a little less 3%. The same 12-year bond a year ago was 1.2%. And at that moment, we were the first member of the EU, not a member of the euro area who could at all betray and issue a bond as such. So, imminent and visible is this growth of interest. And we're on it I would say of course and count when I say and use the term ready, of course that means you have a solution. We can't have anyone to have solutions for all this, but it's very important, it's extremely important, with measures to fight inflation, to preserve economic growth, it's very important. Most importantly. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110901	Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110902	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, we heard some untruth that wanted to slip through the debate about our reduction of funds for reconstruction. It's a good thing we fixed it, that it doesn't burden us during the day anymore, but what I want to draw attention to is one piece of news that's been going through these two days, but it's pretty undetected. This is Croatia's progress on the economic freedom index scale. And when something happens in the six years that this government has managed almost 50 places to improve the position of the Republic of Croatia, only the last year 34 places clearly show what and how it is done. The biggest accent that is given in this review is exactly what you have spent as a minister, which is a few rounds of tax reform as one of the greatest values and effects of such tax reforms on status, means our population, workers, etc. So now I'm asking, really, do we really have any other opportunities to do something about it and what do you expect to do about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110903	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110904	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So this is exactly the report you quote as numerous other international, relevant and when you look at all countries horizontally who still have the best insight into the situation in certain countries but also in others, I would say they are important. And then when something is possible and they say critically, it should always be considered, because they certainly speak probably. But also when they say positive. You quoted a report, I said a little bit of Fitch's report a few days ago. These are all, however, reports that can actually confirm, that, of course, taking into account all the circumstances and challenges and uncertainty we have, not wanting pink coloring the situation in Croatia, but still showing that certain things are well done and done in an adequate way. However, the challenges we are currently facing are not specific to the Republic of Croatia, but we can say global challenges. And under these circumstances, these and such circumstances must always work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110905	Comrade Dreven Buddinski, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110906	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister. The revenue side of the budget is determined by further growth in economic activity and by efforts to mitigate inflation, i.e. pressure on citizens and the economy. Thus, the estimated revenue from value added tax known as our VAT is based on the projections of the growth of personal consumption, tourist services, consumption and investment. The government of the Republic of Croatia reduced VAT to certain products and temporarily reduced excise duties on electricity. In spite of the government's efforts, the price of products continues to rise, so I am interested in whether or not we can expect the effects of this reduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110907	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110908	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It's just a little bumping into your replica, don't mind me. The government did not reduce electricity excise duty, as it cannot even reduce it at a minimum level. We practically have de jure, but we don't actually have and we're incomeing some sort of symbolic amount of about 30 million kuna a year. We've cut to fuel. There is still little space, however, taking into account still the element of uncertainty where and how prices of crude oil will move on international markets that affect fuel again, there is as much space as we left behind, and we will see, if necessary, still react. But you've well apostrophe of this VAT where we all need each other together I'd say in an affirmative way what's important, and that's actually to contribute because we're a market economy, there's no price regulation, there's no element of coercion. But that through competition is actually stimulated that this tax reduction is being overrun where the goal is, in this particular case to the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110909	Thank you. Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110910	Dear Minister, five months ago we warned here about health problems. We have clearly warned that those resources planned for healthcare are not enough and we do not understand how this is possible, that regardless of the medicines, we must pay this debt if we want to provide our services to our citizens. However, there are other basic duties from our hospitals. For example, special hospitals are also obliged to HZZO because they were unable to fulfil their obligations because of the covid of the crisis, because of the conditions of course established by the Government and the Staff. How is it possible that the health minister didn't predict it and that in five months he missed the budget by 4 billion, and we know that's not enough. It'll take us another 3.4 billion by the end of the year to cover all the costs. That's the first question. And the second question, what about the development agreement north? So last year, 27.12. The agreement was signed. So far, no ministry has responded to a conversation, an agreement, to a meeting that could be met.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110911	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110912	Thank you very much. For the development agreement, I'm going to ask my colleague Fuchs, I don't have information right now, and I don't have any excessive answers that can tell you where, at what stage. As far as health care itself is concerned, you mentioned the problem of a special hospital, general hospital, KBCs. I'm looking at it. It's all the same to me. I'm looking at total figures on whether someone is the founder and owner of local self-government and state. When the payment bill comes, secure the funds. How and how it's going to be transferred, I'd say the same thing among other things more about my personal impression. So for years we've been lost in a variety of less important things. A few years ago, here you can also testify among your colleagues the main topic was the exclusion of HZZO from the Treasury and that will solve all our problems. Did we get rid of them? The answer is self-inflicted. So also now that someone asks me if someone should be and change the ownership structure it is less important, it is important to achieve financial sustainability.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110913	Comrade Antoliæ Vupra, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110914	The respected ministers did not pass seven fat cows, not seven good years passed but began to come and thin, but the covid crisis was huge, there was an energy crisis, we were in inflation. We can agree that one of the most endangered groups that feel the burden of crisis are retired. So, after you've paid off the covid supplement, after you've paid off the energy supplement, will you support the SDP's proposal to pay off the inflation supplement in the fall that will be a very questionable quality of life for the pensioners right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110915	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110916	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Of course, it's absolutely legitimate for you to look for certain things and for the good part we'd say how and how we're considering this problem exactly the measures you mentioned yourself. And again I'll say for the third time today no one happier than me and us in the government that we can do more and as far as coordinating and increasing pensions and some single and similar supplements etc. all to improve the standard of living of our pensioners as such. But of course we have certain limitations. So, politically speaking, when you put up with something like this and that someone is possibly against you, you will, of course, conclude that we are against the pensioners. I think it's clear, not that we're not against the pensioners, but we're strong for them, and that's why I've been sending unequivocal messages all the time because I know how and how this theme can be reflected in some way, and I don't know how to expect a bigger indexation in the next half of the year. Will there be enough resources? It will. the funds will be provided... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110917	My colleagues, Grba Bujević, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110918	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Ministers. Health care will get 4.3 billion and a further 3.8 billion with this rebalancing. In addition to disbursement of debts in health care, this money is also intended for the payment of funds that one other government, not this government, has caused with regard to healthcare professionals and is also intended for Ukrainian people from Ukraine for Ukrainian refugees. Let me just remind you that there are 18,000 Ukrainian refugees in the Republic of Ukraine that we care about, and the same way that the healthcare system has provided 8,733 health services, a good part of which is related to hospital health institutions. This cost no one could predict, last year there was no war in Ukraine, and I welcome it because it will allow health institutions to have the same means to cover those services. There you go. Of course, we thank you for all that money. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110919	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110920	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs, and thank you very much for that replica because we are glad to extend the topic of health through the problem and only the supplier and the wholesaler. I don't think they deserve the overall health and health reform issues to be all about drugs either. We all know very well who are doing your entire career and many others here doctors and others, and I can say, too, based on past experiences as Minister of Finance, but by following this problem, I think we can conclude that the problem is where and where more comprehensive than the drugs themselves. Covid has shown how important and valuable he is and what he has done and made a health system, and that is why I think it is in everyone's best interest to put him on financially sustainable feet so that he can handle all the challenges and in some beautiful times, especially when times of crisis come again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110921	My colleagues, Pocrnic-Radosevic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110922	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister. Given the proposal to amend and supplement the state budget for 2022. In the part of the active labour market policy, in the Ministry of Labour and HZZ, an increase of 482 million kuna was reported to be a new plan defined at 2 billion and 96 million kuna, which is an increase of 29.9%. Also, an increase of 26.7% was recorded in the active employment policy item and the total amount was 135 million kuna. The follow-up is expected to continue and implement active employment policy measures in the future, whether our employers and unemployed persons can also count on governmental incentives for employment and maintenance despite upcoming inflation and potential external factors which can affect the situation in the economy. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110923	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110924	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You have well analyzed the budget of the Ministry of Labour in total about two and three billion, respectively, when we look at all the sources. Active employment policies such as measures so far... slowly issuing... are always in focus, so on that side sure that will continue to encourage active employment. We know and we have ourselves still in force some of those measures, so let's call them covid measures to preserve jobs where and where in a narrow sense, but this is among other things here and until recently my colleague, now former Minister Aladrovic has said very nicely once. So we went from that conservation phase to the creation phase, that's the phase we are in, and I think, despite these crisis situations and moments, that's the key variable that we need to grow. I'm going to paraphrase the entrepreneurs again, what they need is the most important workforce.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110925	Thank you. Minister, six more replicas... Six more minutes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There's a fellow byste.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110926	Dear Minister. They say inflation is a friend of the state budget and an enemy of the standard of living of citizens and the economy. I must stress that we are in the same situation as a number of European countries. After the Ukrainian crisis, the prime ministers announced sets of measures that are related to the two... living standards and, of course, the preservation of the economy. I will stress that in these 11 billion surpluses or increases in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, there are not those two things, however, you pointed out that we are only implementing those measures that we had for the covid crisis and fasting in this case... before the Ukrainian crisis. I wonder why such great resources don't go to the citizens? Why aren't they heading towards the economy? I'm also going to say that that answer [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] I expect not only from you but probably from the Prime Minister, is it usually the Prime Ministers.../The speakers speak at the same time./... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110927	Thank you, fellow Bice. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110928	Thank you very much, Your Honor. What you're saying is I'm not sure that any finance minister has ever said that is a friend inflation friend of the budget only if you're looking at a separate revenue side of the budget. If that were the case if I turned down all these claims and the cost hikes I would now be in my office watching you discuss here a third point, and that extra income finely enlisted, recorded the surplus and said that, however, circumstances are where and where different. You know the cost side itself that is really under the great effect and effect of this same inflation and all this that we are talking about here and the health system and the pension system and the salaries and care of refugees and the anti-inflation package measures etc., etc. As regards comparisons with other countries, I will say again, don't ignore that fact and the European Commission itself says, our package is among the more betrayed, significantly above the average, and you know that many countries have had election cycles, etc. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110929	Comrade Peric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110930	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. It's easy for some colleagues here to find that the rebalancing is now incompetence, and it's forgotten how much effort has been made in 2021 when you've also reduced income tax and profit tax, when these effects have been quite evident. In addition, when looking at how much damage the pandemic had done and what seemed to have been done, there was already a mention of the VAT that was already mentioned at the beginning of the year immediately, the intervention was to reduce and that in this way the effects of the inflation that was expected, which already in 2021 had its indications, therefore very active, very engaged precisely in this direction tried to work and seemed to be inflation and all these negative effects were stabilised.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110931	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110932	Thank you very much. Well, as with a number of other things in life timing is of crucial importance for those measures and covids, and so now it's not only appropriate to respond, but also timely and taking into account everything, let's just say I'm being offered your replica, as we just heard about the warnings, because who was warning you. So take both the projections and the estimates of the European Central Bank, a few months ago expectations were the first half of the year, in the second half of the year the appearance of the blowout, expectations have changed, are we going to say that someone in the European Central Bank doesn't know something, they are certainly among the best experts in monetary policy and monitoring the general movement of inflation and it is certainly for them to believe, but the circumstances have, in the meantime, agreed on additional challenges and unfortunately this has deepened all together. In these circumstances, of course, it is important to act, but to seek and find the best moment when and the effect of your actions will be so seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110933	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110934	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, when you were more than six years ago. becoming Minister of Croatia was in the process of excessive budget deficits and in the procedure of excessive macroeconomic imbalances, since then, Croatia has emerged from both procedures. In the meantime, both Croatia and Europe and the world were first affected by a health, health crisis that has become overrun by the economy and now the security situation conditioned by Russia's aggression to Ukraine. I am now interested in today, where Croatia is today, what does the European Commission say and where, compared with other older ones, the EU Member States are setting us up financially, is Croatia today a stable state when it comes to public finances and how are we compared to the EU average?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110935	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110936	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Referring to this start of the mandate not only to me but to the governments in 2016, I will remind everyone not only that we were in the category of countries with excessive macroeconomic imbalances at the time, it even threatened us to fall another step lower than I remember any country had ever been before. We have managed to stop it, and then in the years to come, to improve our status, and I expect a lot of reports from the European Commission these days, and the convergence report from the European Central Bank and the European Commission, and so on, that's what you're talking about. Our efforts all these years have been so far, and I am sure we will continue to recognize today's picture of Croatia in these very circumstances that you say we are a country with an investment rating, which we have not recently been, a country without excessive fiscal and budgetary imbalances, which we have recently been, and we are also not a country with imbalances economically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110937	Thank you. Now it's time for my colleague, Juričev-Martinchev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110938	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, and yesterday in Sibenik, it could be heard that President Milanovic criticises the withdrawal of European funds and says that only 5 billion kunas are in a positive compared to the EU budget or later in a second statement, so I think it is good that our citizens know that more than 125% of the available funds have been agreed, that more than 70% has been paid and that we are in plus almost 50 billion, and when we add the NPOO funds to more than 55 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110939	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110940	Thank you very much, I didn't listen to the president's statement yesterday, but you yourself said he explained it further, and these are the figures that you said at the end, so I'm going to do it again, and I was just saying the same thing, 49.1 billion when we've been looking at it since the beginning of our formal membership as much as we've withdrawn from how much we've paid, when the NPOO 55.2 billion kuna is added to it in favour of the Republic, so plus that relationship, and I think that balance is actually going to be further improved because with the multi-year financial framework that is now ending and will be valid for the next 7 years. Croatia continues to have significant and substantial NPOO funds. In any case, despite what I'd say to be in that plus, it's very important to continue this dynamic, to continue this dynamic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110941	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Bartula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110942	Thank you, dear Minister, we're almost there, I hope the vote will last a little while longer. In these discussions that we have had so far, you certainly know my position that the share of the total state is too high, too high in Croatia, public spending is also worrying for me. In addition to all these extraordinary situations, it seems to me that the government has not done much that only she can. So I agree that it's limited what you can do about inflation and other things right now, but around structural reforms, you're the only one who can do it, so my question again applies to these sectors where it actually burns, health care. You were in a session with a colleague, Beros, when I asked him about health care, he admitted that nothing was reformed and we still have a socialist approach. Do you agree that we cannot expect to rationalise expenditure without introducing market mechanisms into that system including the source those who pay not only to be HZO [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bartulica.]] It's about the competition. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110943	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110944	Thank you very much, Your Honor, and also at this session, as well as in this very much commentary in which direction you should take further steps and just before I was responding to the problem of medicines I said. It really needs to be looked at comprehensively. Not just one segment to isolate and manage this problem but a complete system to watch. Do not send any messages that immediately deter any step and any reform. Let's just say I don't know it's nationalization of the health system or privatization, is that this or that, these are very flat-rate assessments. This should be accessed comprehensively and watch all segments and according to our and constitutional principles and principles, but of course and everything we seek, implement something that will ultimately ensure the financial sustainability of this important system and others. You mentioned total structural reforms and I'm always naturally affirmative of such species.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110945	Thank you. And the last replica, Comrade Bilek, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110946	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Government, and here's the inflation that we've heard a lot about here today is not just a matter of Republic and some management in one way or another, unfortunately it's a global matter in case and security threats, everything we've had with the health system, but following this and what you've been talking about, and a few countries in the environment as I've noticed some of them are already in inflation as far as the two-digit figures are concerned. So I would only like to ask where we are in this work because indeed and how much I have heard from colleagues from the EU and from the Czech Republic who will soon chair our package is really betrayed in this direction and is aimed directly at the economy, but also at households and all people and citizens of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110947	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110948	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, in April, let's say that we achieved inflation that is something in that upper half of the countries, but as far as I'm saying again, the average of the last 12 months are really here, and all this time we wouldn't even be worried about comparisons with other countries if we just compared ourselves to the average. And you said exactly the Baltic lands, the many countries of the so-called. The old members of both the EU and the European Monetary Union, such as the Netherlands and the like, have stepped long ago into the two-digit inflation rate zone. And they're simple facts. These are facts and in all this, of course, all these measures that we are talking about here and our actions both at national level and at European level, I think they should be focused. It is very important, of course, that monetary authorities, the European Central Bank, will work, and I still hope that there is room at national level and so will our CNB. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110949	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, has endured all these replicas, now let's get some repurchaser, and we'll move on. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP, two representatives of counterparts Grbin and counterpart Lalovac will speak. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110950	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm a little hurried, Mr. Vice-President. I'm sorry that this is a voice situation for you. You can always have very specific and correct discussions, and it's a recognition that needs to be given to you. But it wasn't easy for you today, it wasn't easy for you to defend this rebalancing. And this rebalancing and this early rebalancing is actually the consequence of two circumstances. One is external, and that's inflation, that's war in Ukraine, the Russian aggression that's happening. However, apart from external reasons for rebalancing, we and our Croatian internals, which is bad planning at the end of last year. Bad planning in certain corridors or I'll let myself say that maybe even a false display of numbers, numbers, for example in health care. So respected colleagues and colleagues if we are out of opposition based on what happened last year, on the basis of external indicators, we have seen that the amount envisaged for health care is not enough then you, especially you from the Ministry of Finance, especially the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, must also see it. And you didn't predict enough resources and what, you had to admit a few weeks ago that health debts grew at a rate of 400 to 500 million kuna a month. And at that rate, if we look at what's supposed to be rebalancing, it won't be enough to cover these debts by the end of the year, which means that this rebalancing is also suffering from problems like the budget. But let's go back to inflation for a moment. We had to rebalance what was the government's measure of February this year. It's a commitment. When you have measures that weigh 5 billion kunas, then you have to show them in rebalancing. However, after the measures we went out with in February, we do not have new ones, and other EU Member States, not to go wider, are constantly adopting such measures. And what's going to happen? On the one hand, their citizens will be better protected from Croatians, and on the other hand their entrepreneurs who will receive from their countries of support will be more competitive and will endanger the position of our entrepreneurs and also on our Croatian market. Two months ago, the EU gave a framework to Member States. That's what we talked about here in the Croatian Parliament. However, Croatia is not benefiting from the framework. What we are proposing is very concrete measures. First, fairer pension coordination to ensure their growth and maintain value in the age of inflation. Secondly, the new supplement you called energy, and I would call it an inflationary supplement for pensioners because it is now quite clear that this inflation does not stop it will be even bigger by the end of the year. In April 4 countries at the monthly rate of inflation in the EU, 4. Thus, we are speeding up and need new measures to help those who are the most vulnerable. Of course, in this regard, we must also consider whether a round of vouchers should be expanded and their amount increased. Further, measures towards entrepreneurs. You'll say it's not the same situation as it was during Covid. No, but it has many features that make it comparable. We cannot allow our entrepreneurs who have already lost the market of Ukraine and Russia not to be able to look for new markets, we simply cannot, especially in a situation where the EU Member States are acting, we cannot allow our entrepreneurs to be put in a worse position than in the one where they already are. Of course, other than the vouchers, in addition to the addition of pensioners to both better and fairer pension coordination, tax policy should also be changed according to energy, primarily towards fuel, in order to ensure that this growth is contained, but also the issue of income tax or non-taxable part. I mentioned health care, the debt of growth, the reform is gone, the consequences of citizens do not have a quality health system and I will not just talk about recent examples that we have talked about very much in the previous days, but this is a systemic problem, our health in these circumstances is not able to meet their obligations, the citizens did not deserve it, the citizens pay it and have the right to get something in return. And finally rebuilding, you said 300 million kunas more, I hold you by the word, but the fact is that the Fund for Reconstruction is being reduced, that's a fact, and at the same time it's a fact that we can read in the media that people who have been promised that their houses will be built by June and that in early June they will be able to enter them, testify that the works are standing, that the construction workers don't have 10 to 15 days and that there's no theoretical chance that the deadline we set ourselves will be fulfilled. These are all the problems that indicate how this government doesn't work, and then, as a result, as much as this rebalance doesn't really reflect the real situation, it's necessary, but it's not enough. He does not provide answers to either the inflation crisis, nor the health crisis, nor the recovery crisis, he does not provide funds to combat inflation and preserve citizens' standards, and therefore we cannot support him in the SDP, and now I leave the word to my colleague, Lalovec, who will speak more specifically about certain things that do not work in this budget, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110951	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110952	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. How interesting it is during a certain period of time when the state is in crisis here today to hear whether we are successful or not, so I listen here to my colleague Bačić imply that the SDP government was in macroeconomic imbalances in 2014, '15, '16, then the HDZ government showed up and it's all great, wonderful, fantastic, and for example. We don't remember when he was Minister in 2008. If we were in bananas, if we were in bananas, that's what the prime minister said at the time, is HDZ, is we in bananas, then the finance minister was the Secretary of State, we had an investment rating, could he be in charge, do you think he could be in charge, what were the macroeconomic environment for Croatia at the time? I don't think Minister Schuker was a bad minister, because then there were such macroeconomic circumstances for Croatia they were like that, and the prime minister said we were in bananas, then she came in 2014 and '15. when Croatia was in recession. Remember what happened in Greece? Shutting down an ATM, rioting on the roads. What happened in Spain? It's a riot, isn't it? What happened in Ireland, what happened in Italy, what happened in Croatia? We were... There were no riots as they were in those lands. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I see today that's what this is about, it was a bad government of SDP, so then she did it, what's changing today, right? The macroeconomic environment is changing, it is changing, it is changing that we are now not only a full member of the EU but we are joining the euro area, they are watching us differently, it is a political decision and it is good for Croatia. We have always said what is good for Croatia that it is good and we will never do it, and when some things are good by the government we will praise, but we can't just do it here now just so we're going to hit it here from 2016 is all great, we've got all these instruments, and we'll see it very quickly so I'm not telling you this for bad purposes, because we've had opportunities for a number of reforms that have been expected from us, don't forget what the European Commission has asked of many member states in 2014, '14. And in '15. Yeah, what were those measures about... etc., what happened in the EU then? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] A number of riots were in southern Europe, yes, a very large dissatisfaction was about it. Europe has changed its structure today, no more talking about having to cut, that we have to tighten the belt, etc. You know what happened, what was Germany's policy? Now we've all said with the covid crisis you spend, is that what the President of the Commission said, spend, spend, spend, return the economy. What happened? Well, we've printed so much money, we've spent so much on inflation with this disorder, the disturbance on the market, so the circumstances of the European Commission for the countries have changed in 2014 and '15. When we have been unbalanced and changed today is, as they have changed, we will see how the European Central Bank is going to go towards it, and instead of talking here today, and we know that these measures that need to matter, but let's not forget that 30% of them, every honor you've increased your salary in the public sector 30%, whether you've increased public sector productivity by 30%, whether we've increased public sector productivity ask the entrepreneurs if, if we're public sector, all right, all of them are looking for public sector, looking for these, looking for them, whether we've increased, if we're better, we can, for foreign investment in Croatia, be more productive that our country is closer to investment and to start the economy, look for what's going on, so the projections of what's happened here. Private investment will stop, you know why, is it so uncertain in the long term about inflation, as far as interest rates are concerned, as far as the raw materials of private investment are concerned, not at zero, that they will come but they have all stopped and are waiting for the next year to do so. Who's the only investor? Well, the only investor is the state, the only investor through reconstruction, through funds, and that's one part of the money that goes into guidance and restoration. Let's not forget, and just here in projections it says that personal consumption is going to slow down, and of course it will slow down when inflation and when it is, when prices are what they are. So let's not fool ourselves that there will be money from Europe forever. Someone also needs to rebuild Ukraine and they expect about 500 billion dollars. How much Europe will give, how much America will give. Circumstances change, they change quickly, they'll be replaced in six months, today what we're saying here doesn't necessarily mean that in six months it'll be worth it. But that's why it's up to us here, if we can agree that some things are from public administration reform, reform and local administrations that we've just gone through again. I'm the only one who's sad, is that it's only here that the government has given up any kind of reform. I'm telling you the truth. Not just in health care. At least for a time there's been talk about it is, let's just let this part of what you're talking about there write for this NGO whether we're going to create it because we feel on the expense side whether entrepreneurs are satisfied, whether the citizens in that part of the reform, that in that part, that alone now that we have the opportunity, when we have the money in that part, that we're in that system that we can withstand this kind of pressure, that we can endure this kind of pressure, right? We, now, agree we now have an intervention filling, intervening the land of this natural gas. We're all doing some intervention measures, aren't we? We're all doing an intervention measure for each area. We're shutting down health care now, we're shutting down the gas, now we're shutting down whatever it is. Now the question is in these two years, not the minister's problem, he's doing his job best from his colleagues. The problem is that today we're saying there's no one in health, we're talking about the euro, there's no governor, they've raised their hands, right? They've raised their hands, only the CNB thinks they're going to get a position in the European Central Bank. That's all. Have you heard one piece of information? The government is trying as hard as to give certain incentives for the economy, each day pressures are on the government. Have you ever... I don't know what the governor is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He said I won't work anymore until the end of the year, he's watching there who's going to get a certain position, now what's in kunas, he'll have in euros and he said he already said I'm working towards the ECB, I'm not doing anything right. So we don't have monetary policy anymore, do we? We don't have monetary policy. And all the time he's going to do it again, and he's going to be able to comment on how to do the reform, it's very good, how to do the reform on the expenditure side, right? And here, I'm only sorry that we just gave in to all the teams, we say we need to raise the wages, we need, we need everything, right, we need to find anyone today who needs everything, okay? It's just a question of whether when the recession comes, that's what we're all afraid of, that's what Europe is afraid of, is, and that's why the minister here said we're giving everything to grow economically. This is the most important thing in this part, and this is the turning point that Europe does not know whether or not it will be able to achieve this growth. In six months, it doesn't have to mean that we're going to have this kind of policy, we don't have the slightest idea what it's going to look like when you have four times the inflation difference between Lithuania and France, four times, and France is on the stagnation line. We don't know if, and because what we say let's get ready now, there's no connection is going to be a budget, it's going to be measures, but let's at least put someone who wants to make some reforms in these two years, it won't be popular measures, the people will understand that if and when they come, and unfortunately they're good times, now they're unstable, every little bit more unstable, and all we have here is the Minister of Finance who defends all of this. This isn't his rebalancing at all. This is the rebalancing of his colleagues who aren't here today, who aren't here today. And he has to actually look for answers for all of them, it's a bad policy. It's a bad policy and that's why I say there's no governor, there's no other ministers, there's no one here today, and we're all talking here today, the finance minister is going to try to actually do some kind of acrobatics about getting gas, so he's going to work around health care, about anything, about rebuilding, etc. Yeah. And are we satisfied that structurally it doesn't work because it's big, bulky systems, it's not easy to run. It's not easy for a new economy minister either, he doesn't even know what he's gotten into what level of megaministry he's entered. So that's what we're trying to talk about today, not criticizing you, not criticizing you. rather than simply point to those things that unfortunately are ahead of us. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110953	You, too. Now it's Mr. Marin Lerotić from the IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110954	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers with co-workers and I agree with my colleague, I said so and we did, when the 2022 budget was presented, that it would really be good if nothing other resolute ministers were sitting here and listening to Minister Maric defend them, but also to hear everything we have from the opposition, but also from the ruling ministers we have to tell them. But they are gone, and clearly there will be none. And today we have a budget a lot earlier than we could have expected, so half a year ago. And it definitely doesn't need to be ignored because it says something about the current state of affairs. And unfortunately, we have an inflation rate in April which is over 9.6% and we have to be aware that in the coming months we will also have a further rise in prices and food, as well as household supplies. The state budget or, in this case, the budget rebalancing, with the financial document indisputable and the political document from which the government's policy is visible and the direction of the country's development is being implemented. And the direction of this government is as we have the opportunity to see a new rebalance and a new increase in debt. Like any time in the assembly, the state budget or budget rebalance is unfortunately always the same. Health money leaks like water from Zagreb pipelines. The budget rebalance shows an increase in the deficit by 4.3 billion, which at this point leads us to a final score of minus 13.6 billion kuna, and if we don't lie, it will be even more in the next one. This brings the health ministry's budget to 20 billion kuna, which is still not nearly the final state it was for 2021 when we pumped 38 billion kuna into health care. And that wouldn't be a problem if we solved the health problem, but we didn't, and the next month it's going to be 500 million kuna, that month after a billion kuna and so on from a circle to a circle. And no one from the Department of Health here is here to explain it to us and to explain why it doesn't offer reform, we heard something that they want to centralize the health system, and when we know that 80% of the debt is produced by state-owned hospitals better not even come here. So it's more than crystal clear to everyone that things in health care don't work out, and it's even more funny to repeat because our health situation is so bad that it looks picturesquely like the Titanic in the scene before the complete sinking, and what's worse is that the solutions obviously aren't there and it's no exaggeration but it really is. And instead of ruling something they do or at least trying to do the bullying press and that way we won't move forward. The ruling must understand that the opposition does not talk without reason about the unsustainable health system, that we do not advocate without reason the reform of the health system and not from yesterday but years ago, but because the water has come to the throat and if something urgent is not done, our citizens will feel all of this on their backs. And already as parrots, we repeat ourselves every time it comes to the health system, and we really don't know what else to say or make things change for the better. The ruling ones often say we got money from the EU for reforms, and there is no reform. Before I'm wrong, I've been talking about this phone booth for two weeks, and I'm going to do it again and again now, and that's that money from the EU won't fall from the sky, but it needs to be done very well and a lot of quality work, because if we want it to include good operationality and coordinated action. However, the situation is currently completely unsatisfactory and we can conclude that there is a trend in uncoordinated work and poor system functioning and ignoring the opportunities offered by EU funds. Because when we talk about the economy ministry, the new minister obviously has different priorities, so the reduced item for financing investment, industry, exports, innovation for more than 22 million kunas because what I've listed really shouldn't be a priority. It also reduces the item to encourage innovation development research, the reason or reduction of the full amount is set out in the item of the European Regional Development Fund. No European competition has been opened since operational plans have yet to be adopted. Like I said, the situation is getting better and better. Also operational programme Effective human potential was downloaded 77 million out of 100 as planned when this budget was adopted. And as I said before and here we see that we are terribly late in withdrawing European funds and that we are all going to find ourselves in big trouble together, and there are no responsible ones and, of course, there will be none. Everything's going according to plan. There are no signs of serious forms, and that's something that's really worrying. We think that we should still relieve entrepreneurs, reduce red tape, work on having a more efficient system within the judiciary and digitise the system of state administration to help entrepreneurs, but also to give greater transport to the production industry, to export industries, to make the Croatian economy stronger and better quality. As I said in the replica, state property should be put into operation, I said in the Muzil area which makes up a fifth of the entire area of the city of Pula where there is the possibility of investing more than a billion kuna, profiting from the concession, new employment, I also repeat putting state property into operation and all of this remains a state tomorrow together. It is in Croatia's interest and it is the only way that we can make progress as a country, be more competitive and stable. In short, these are some of our observations, but I think, or at least we hope to see in this budget, already, that some things are moving forward and that in the coming period we will be creating a more quality social economy because we believe that the crisis is exactly an opportunity, and in the situation when we have had GDP growth we have produced nothing, we have not made any reforms and no shifts have been visible, so we really hope that this crisis will force us to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110955	Thank you. Now it's the National Minority Club and Mr. Vladimir Bilek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110956	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Vice-President of the HS, the respected representative of the Ministry of Finance, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here's as real as we've seen through these replicas, but we also see every day around us that the economic financial situation in both the Republic of Croatia and the global agenda is a daily topic for all of us, but also for the government, for the representatives of the opposition, but also for the citizens because it changes daily and affects the quality of life for all of us. In fact, life is becoming more expensive, but the functioning of the state under these conditions is becoming more complex and, as we have witnessed, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been forced to take a number of measures. The measures taken to mitigate price growth, primarily energy, but also certain food products, through a reduction in value added tax, have also received some positive effects on citizens' lives, particularly those socially at risk. The development of global developments also assumes a further continuation of this trend, as well as an increase in the difficulties in the functioning of the economy, primarily through the prices of raw materials and prices, but also the available amounts of energy that are doing the situation around us and the security risks can be limited at some point. The consequences of Russia's aggression in Ukraine, a war whose end is not under surveillance at this time, will continue to have a negative impact on supply flows, flows of available goods and their price. The state will most likely have to take additional measures when it comes to gas supplies, to take charge of gas storage, as well as refurbishment of supply reserves. Here I would just like to say, today is the Minister of Economy in Grubišni Polje, where research at new underground gas storage facilities which should also ensure stability as regards the supply itself. In this package, of course, the costs are not negligible nor the cost of accepting and providing Ukrainian refugees who may not be present as in Poland or neighbouring Ukraine, but also come to us and care for them, and we care for them. Unfortunately, there have been no announced changes in the organisation and functioning of the health system, which have led to generation and accumulation of costs and debts according to major drugs that need to be resuscitated in a hasty manner in order to preserve the system, in order to enable citizens to receive adequate health care and, although the Croatian economy has quickly and strongly recovered from the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, epidemics and measures taken and supplies in the health care sector are still terriblely and heavily burdened by the state budget in the past year. In a good employer's manner, the government successfully completed negotiations with state and civil servants' unions in April on the basis of which 4% of the pay base has been increased since 1 May. Additional costs for the state budget are the indexation of pensions due to the growth of wages of the consumer price index, but there is, of course, concern for our pensioners, care for our citizens of the Republic of Croatia. All these indicators should also be taken into account the lack of labour. Croatia will be forced to introduce more foreign workers than we have ever had in order to maintain the necessary economic activity, primarily in tourism that represents each year. With the price of raw materials, the prices of work are growing dizzyly, both in our country and in the world. With labour shortages and labour imports, unfortunately, precisely because of the labour price, we are still recording and still in a small amount, the outflows of our people, primarily those who go after higher wages somewhere in the EU or globally in the world. In this light, we note the rise in inflationary pressures, in 2022, the acceleration of consumer price inflation to 7.8%, which will also contribute to food and oil prices. Here we have seen and heard a lot of things about inflation, but also many developed countries and those countries that can be said by the old EU countries, that have a much larger number than the larger two-digit number as regards the inflation index. Given all this that the budget could not bear, this rebalance increases budget revenues by 6.6 billion kuna and costs 10.9 billion kuna. The general government's budget is expected to record a deficit of 2.8% of GDP and the share of public debt in GDP will decrease by 3.6% compared to the year before and will be 76.% of GDP. The stability of this rebalancing with domestic sources will certainly contribute to the revenue expected from the accelerated withdrawal of the agreed EU funds. Reports of the annual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 but above all for the new financial period 2021-2027 as EU instruments of the new generation. Significant funds from the EU Solidarity Fund to finance the recovery of public infrastructure damaged by the earthquake in Zagreb and Banovina, which we lead to and through rebalancing are increasing these funds. We still have to leave the funds there and there are funds for implementing operational programmes, for building infrastructure from kindergartens, schools, dormitories, cultural and educational centres, but also all that generates in some way not only the quality and quality of the knowledge of our citizens but also the employment of our companies, and thus, generates certain growth and prevents a fall in greater return. So this is a necessary and reasonable rebalancing, it's justified and the National Minority Representatives' Club will support this rebalancing with strong support from the government to continue to monitor the use of budget money and the mitigation of the crisis that is being shed from the global framework to our country as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110957	You, too. Ms. Vesna Vucilović, Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereignists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110958	Thank you very much, dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Since we've combined these three points of the agenda, let me start from the last one. So first I'll say what's good. Because it's time to say a few words about this report last year that marked economic recovery, and it's mostly due to the good tourist season, but also, that year has marked a rise in the costs of the health system which, if judged by this rebalancing, have no intention of returning to those levels before the COVID epidemic 19. Now, since 2020 was marked by closing, banning activities, restrictions on all possible species, then it is logical to take the year 2019 for comparison and this 2020 as soon as possible, mostly the part of the struggle with the epidemic that was modelled in China, when we were among the countries that had the most restrictive measures. What I will point out as positive and is related to macroeconomic indicators is the growth of exports, construction works and industrial production, and these should be fundamental definitions and future ones if we want to reduce the dependence on tourism as an economic branch which has proved to be extremely sensitive to the crisis. What was growing all the time was the state consumption which, of course, is not good, and already last year, there was a rise in food prices and not only these products, but also raw materials and construction materials, which continued this year with greater intensity, and it is best seen at inflation rates. So for April of this year it was a record 9.4%, it continued to accelerate, and if we look at it most, it was influenced by the prices of transport and food. If we compare this with some other EU countries, then we are still standing well because there are over 20% inflation in Austria, Estonia over 30, but it is very worrying and with the announced growth of interest rates, it raises a number of questions, and it is related to the financing of this deficit that is growing in this rebalancing process. Now, if we're going to talk about who's ahead of us today, I have to start with a sentence that's just inevitable, and it says so. We told you. Thus, a number of representatives said when presenting the 2022 budget that the expenditure on the spending side was simply underestimated. You planned to cut them by 4 billion kuna this year, and now in this rebalancing, it's a health system that's no longer a recovery, although it's now become a regular phenomenon, so for hospitals and HZZO over 4 billion and 4.3 billion kuna, respectively. If we know how Minister Maric informed us that these costs are now no longer increasing 200, 300 million per month, but now suddenly they are growing 400, 500 million kuna per month, then we really need to ask ourselves what will happen by the end of this year, or maybe it is better not to ask. Let's pretend like nothing's happening, but it's happening and it's not good. Last year, six billion kunas were additionally spent more than planned. It's going to be hard this year. So last year we calculated that health care generates 200, 300 million kunas of that deficit every month this year is now 400, 500. So these 4.3 billion won't be enough if last year there was a six this year there can only be more. And in principle, it's not really a recovery anymore. It's a systematic cost increase that's increased in the pandemic, and there's obviously no going back now. And that's usually the main pain of public systems. Once costs, when expenditures rise to a higher level, very rarely it goes in that reverse direction, very rarely it goes back. So a certain level of cost has been achieved and the system wants to keep it. And regardless of the causes of this initial increase, which in this case was an epidemic of Covida-19 and after the cause disappeared, the virus did not disappear but here there is no plexiglas, we do not wear masks, we live more or less the same as before the epidemic, or we can say that the reduced cost impact remains at that higher level. So it was illusory to expect that health costs would decrease 4 billion kunas this year and we told you that. Less or less all the opposition MPs told you that when you adopted the budget. And that's one of the reasons why we didn't support that budget because it was unrealistic, and even now what you've brought is not real either. What we expected at the adoption of the budget was two rebalances this year. What we expected was an increase in revenues due to inflation that was already evident last year. Now, what we didn't expect was the rise in expenditures of nearly 11 billion kunas 9% compared to last year, 6% compared to the plan. And as a consequence of all that, a deficit of $13.7 billion and 2.8%, respectively. Now, taught by all this experience, we only have one question to ask ourselves. Is that a real number, is that a final number? What else is missing here? And there's not much to ask. The first thing that attracts attention is the amount envisaged to finance gas supply. We all know that the gas warehouse is empty and it is expected at the end of the heating season, but before leaving the government Minister Coric decided that if private PPD, INA, HEP, EON will not charge at these high gas prices underground warehouse around then the state will do so. That's what he left for us. Nice of him means there will be gas for next season's heating season, but to restore gas supplies, it takes 300m euros, which is more than 2 billion kuna, and this rebalance provides for only 75m kuna and 10m euros, respectively, amount not to be insignificant but definitely insufficient. Now, as these costs will be divided, probably between HEP and the state register remains to be seen, but if that cost was shown in this rebalancing process then the deficit would not be 2.8 but would be over 3% E now that we expect to enter the euro area, because we expect the European Commission's report at the end of 6 and at the beginning of 7 months was very convenient to ignore all this together, not to show the total amount because then Croatia would not meet two criteria for the introduction of the euro and that would already be a problem, and then what we will leave for the end, for that other rebalancing technically, and then we will show that because it will have to be shown somewhere, we will see whether it is just creative accounting that we are already used to meet the conditions for the introduction of the euro or not, we will find out in the fall, but we could already say that there is a little creative accounting. What we can claim with complete certainty right now is that the spending party is completely out of control, completely. A journalist just before asked me what could have been done as this has grown, so put it under control finally once. In the past term, reforms have not been implemented although there have been excellent conditions, macroeconomicly never better, now in the middle of the mandate in such complex circumstances expect this government seeking stability to make any reform illusory, even the greatest optimists I do not think expect absolutely any reform from this government now in the middle of the mandate. And the spending side is growing by nearly 11 billion, but it's interesting that in the media it's not talking about it, two hills are fighting, the president and the prime minister are having a little bit of public fun every day, but these 11 billion are obviously not interesting to anyone, it goes under the radar, so why don't the expenditures rise by 20, 30 or already how many billions if these 11 are completely irrelevant to the public and it's downgraded to a mere number. The only thing we can expect next time is even bigger figures on the spending side or maybe a few more exposés of Minister Maric with elevated tones when his throat is slightly recovered because he cannot discipline the users of the budget when it comes to spending. What is crucial, and this is how this increase in expenditure will affect the economy, the competitiveness of our companies, the responsibility, the standard of living and purchasing power, obviously the public is not too interested. In addition, we see that some world-wide topics are being imposed which, in such a unstable and crisis situation, the question is, in general, who is it appropriate to step up the division in society and what do the inhabitants of Croatia have in the first place, whether they will live better, whether they will have greater purchasing power, is absolutely certain that they will not. What, here's to not being all bad that's good at this rebalancing is this macroeconomic framework that's, let's say, made for real. Last time we overestimated GDP growth, and inflation was underestimated, so what we now have in our assessment is three times more than just a few months ago when the budget was adopted and compared to the World Bank, compared to the European Commission that came out here with its estimates you did this cautiously, here I have to say, I have to commend you, you went a little more carefully than this one was taught by experience, it's nice to learn this way in walking because here the European Commission estimated inflation to be 6.1%, the government has entered from 7.8, and the GDP growth is estimated at 3%, and the European Commission at 3.4. What these final figures will depend on, unfortunately again on tourism and again on the tourist season. We have not learned in the coronary crisis how fragile it is, how sensitive the economic branch is, and in such unstable geopolitical circumstances, absolutely all scenarios are possible, including those with negative effects. What I'm going to point out, and I'm not getting there, so I'm going to leave it for an individual debate, so the payer's attention is drawn to the profit tax item and the income is growing 10%, which in the nominal amount is 851 million kuna, and it's good for companies to do positive business and pay the profit tax, that's always good, but in times of crisis, in times of inflation we should take care of the socially most sensitive groups. People are complaining about the rising price of gas, the rise and price of wood, 500 kuna wood, so the Croatian forests are private or state-owned companies, why this must follow the price of gas and why Croatian forests must make extra profits in this situation. A little more social sensitivity not only at government level but also at the level of state and public enterprises in this situation is very important, they should not use the situation to increase their extra profits but also to help those most socially vulnerable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110959	You, too. Now it's the Club of Representatives of the Bridge, Mr. Troscott's first, and then he'll be succeeded by Mr. Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110960	Dear Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, and all those who follow us through the screen. What's the main message here is that the budget as such has been increased again by almost all items other than education, but the main question that is being raised for all of our citizens is whether, on the basis of the increase in the budget itself, will you really live better than that? So we have a situation that the war is spreading between Ukraine and Russia, we don't know what will happen to the pandemic in the autumn because certain pharmaceutical companies have announced that even last year's budget, which can't be achieved by selling even pulsed, cardiological, oncological medicines, which means that only the vaccines remain, we have that China is a semi-closed system now where several hundred ships are waiting in front of Shanghai, where demand for Chinese products is increasing, and then, accordingly, it means that we are going to increase all prices or more globally to the energy crisis and entry of Finland and Sweden, which, regardless of how someone thinks in this direction, geopolitically, geostrategicly, it means that we have certainly entered into a decade of unrest, disagreement with Russia, which will certainly affect energy or the same price, and within a short period, we can't replace energy and even energy development in an independent manner. As far as inflation itself is concerned, it would be good today if only the Ministry had done a calculation of what this inflation is and what is waiting for us and how we should finance it because we are waiting for it in the future. What the Mosta Club did was, we came up with some calculations, some 20 billion, depending on what inflation would be at the end of the year, and in what way? We take GDP, we take household spending is about 60% within that GDP, and then it's multiplied by the rate.../incomprehensible/... the expected rate of inflation and we get about 20 billion kuna that we'll have total damage to all households throughout Croatia. Now, the Mosta Club also has a potential solution, as Switzerland has done to finance Covid's debt. It is a similar situation, where Switzerland estimated that Covid would owe them some 30 billion Swiss francs, there are prices, only Swiss francs and Croatian kunas, and they said well, we have 11 to 13 years to pay off the debt that came from Covid in Switzerland. And how are we going to do that? Number one, we're going to get a profit from the Swiss National Bank and over the years we're going to pay that debt plus all those surpluses that we get from the budget, those reserves, we're going to be paying off, and in 11 to 13 years, one Switzerland is going to pay off the debt that came from Covid. Now, how we're going to pay it off when we don't even know how much it's worth or how much it's worth, that's what one big secret is about getting medical equipment that didn't even go through public procurement, let's remember what it looked like. And today we are just here because of the rebalancing of that same health care, where the minister is involved in a minimum of two affairs, about the purchase of medical equipment that is twice as expensive when taking a comparative offer from German producer Zeiss for the Sister of Mercy Hospital until the money has been paid to his friend, the paparazzi friend who followed him during the campaign, and we are here today to discuss the budget rebalancing due to corruption, at the end of the day, where we have corruption that some 70 billion kuna costs us yearly this corruption, where here's money to a girl as it was told here on the spending side. No one mentions, for example, only energy, HEP, the estimates are that 10% of HEP's income at the annual level is going to corruption or ignorance or infrastructure projects like the Water Centre on the Good in Lest where there are still dangers for our people to lose their lives or, say, a shameful example of Kosinj where the Kosinj field is going to sink, billions are involved, billions will disappear through it or, for example, those constant guesses to gas ends, the queens of renewable energy, kings who sell electricity from BiH, and the thermo power plant that burns to lignite, so the environment itself is further polluting, and on the other hand, it makes it impossible for people to move to energy transition themselves, to green economy and electricity production in an environmentally acceptable way, for example, the HEP as such brakes themselves to put solar panels on their own, and to 20 years in the next year. Why? For once again it is necessary to please the kings of gas, the kings of men who import oil from Arab countries, etc. So there's no protection for our little people, there's a problem. We're here to discuss again today some kind of health rebalancing that we've been waiting 30 years for some kind of reform. But the same, waiting lists are still growing, so health care doesn't have the right adequate service, and we're still increasing these costs today without having any efficiency in that matter. As far as the goods basket itself is concerned, there is the biggest problem because on our salary that does not grow, food grow, drink and tobacco that are quite used in Croatia. And now that this compares to greater spending because our budgets spend much more of these basic supplies than the EU actually uses, we are having problems, we are experiencing a particularly serious situation in the fall that people may actually be left without food. We didn't solve the problem energyically, the question of where it's going to come from because we replaced one gas addiction with another. HEP as such prevents people from becoming energy independent. There is a directive from the EU that requires that we say someone who puts solar panels have the right to a zero VAT rate. I don't see that it's the Ministry of Finance as such and it's really going, that it can help people, and with the social transfers that we sent, we did help some people with 200 kuna in the short term, but the people of several thousand kunas have increased their costs. So just remember the governor of the CNB who said that 8300 kuna is not much. Well, it's not for you who's got a master's kitchen, where you're better off eating than the Habsburg monarchy. But there are people who survive with several hundred kunas, and they've now increased costs that can't be controlled. We really got into a serious situation. And even now, it is all about political will to enter the euro area where we are in the fourth position ahead of us are only the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Slovakia and the Baltic countries ahead. And we're pushing for entry into the euro zone on totally insecure ground entering the euro zone and no one knows how it's going to end. That's where I'd stop now, so here's Miro for you, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110961	Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110962	Thank you. I'm sorry that he's not a minister here, because so much sleekness and perversion in government decisions mostly when they say here's the energy that 10% has collected to citizens only that's not a lie. She insults every man, Croatian citizen, peasants. I'll tell you a few examples. I'm from local politics, I'm here and I'm here all the time with these people, with that poor girl. Here's an example, you're the best in Europe for the least amount of energy in this crisis after the covid of terror, after the covid dictatorship, you've created chaos, you've accepted the game. Okay. Is it normal for you to collect 500 percent of the currents in mountainous and mountainous areas for local water pipelines? 500 percent. For example, the Cetina region water line, and so all the water lines, only the mayors can't say that because they're probably tied up by a party, 500 percent. What does that mean? That the current that pumps water to certain heights that you can get households, that means with 2 and a half million kuna, an example of the water line of the Cetina region last year, this year is HEP, Croatia's HEP is 10 and a half million kuna. Well, we'll just figure it out. In order for my colleague Troscott to tell me about the poor, I, as a responsible person, will order the water manager, although I am not the majority owner of 47% to pay you exactly as much as last year was electricity. It was 170,000 kuna, and this month, 900,000 kuna came in. For what? Because the government of Andrej Plenkovic is not like collected water, he did not collect electricity, so he will gather the local leaders. No, I won't! I won't! But you come in here and cut the water, and we'll pay for it last year, turn off the electricity, so some parts of Split don't have water, and only the water goes downhill will come. And it's even more embarrassing that HEP boasting about sponsorship, which is doing harmful projects. Our HEP must guard it, which has the most severance-sponsored severance di does not arrive, mainly its party members from HDZ. This same HEP is making chaos among these people, among the people, and now we mayors would trim to collect electricity 500%, five times to our citizens in rural areas. Mountain-mounted areas require more electricity for the pumps to raise water. Here I am giving the other mayors of HDZ a simple solution. Pay the wars like last year, instead of 100,000 kunas this year demand a million, you pay 100 as last year every war. And come you turn off Andrej Plenkovic, bring him to Sinjska Alka, I'll say di is true, I'll take him red wallpaper off the water, electricity. HEP Croatian HEP. For example, in the Cetina region 40% of Cetina gives hydropower to the Republic of Croatia. What did you bring back to Dalmatino Zagora? What did you bring back to face? Slavonia? What are you bringing back to that people? Except you're hitting the calf operators at the Misetic family. I see now some reported from the Homeland Movement, never mentioned, and I'm glad they accept. The Misetic family leads, here leads the meaning of Andrej Plenkovic because the president was in HDZ, well now he can, now it's acceptable. And I agree, it's written, so I agree, and that's good. From 8 kuna to 2 kuna and 40, from 8 kuna to 2 and 40 in favour of tele-op operator to damage unit local self-government. And I'm glad my colleagues are joining me. I've given this law three times. No one's ever raised a hand for him, at least no one, no one. So three years ago, there was a Law on the Right of Service and now it's in the process and I expect the President, mostly, to put that item under discussion. And also from the chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government, that after three years to push it here so that we have 3 euros per metre in Slovenia, the T-Com that Mudrinic handed over to the hand he handed over, i.e. HDZ started, SDP finished. So what do we have now? Should we forgive them for that money too? So how much did you reduce your income if you gave them 3 euros per metre, instead of proposing 2 kunas and 40. Or you're not the only ones who are all glad that they are now HAKOM brothers and sisters, the brother of this minister, that they are now that regulation that HaKOM has brought forward that the problem has been solved. No, they're telling you, the law is in the process where the telephony operators will be reduced, reduce the cost of the right path to harm local self-government, to the harm of local self-government. Teleopers are the biggest winners in the Republic of Croatia 42%. In the EU, a maximum of 20%. I first mentioned teleoperators when I entered the assembly here, for the first time, you know what was the cover of all teleoperators, all of whom we have in Croatia and this monopolist Tcom who is not Croatian because HT, the title was Bulja not to return us to the stone house, age. No, we're not asking him to bring us back to the Stone Age. God forbid, let them behave like they do where the states come from. Not to terrorize the Croatian people, and you allowed them to. Why? Because Misetic Dynasty affects Plenkovic so much And on you, especially HDZ, that you must not [[Intruder: Time.]] You're welcome to give me a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110963	Mr. Damir Bakic will represent the views of the green-left bloc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110964	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished representative of the ministry, good afternoon. First of all, two principled remarks on the positive side first, it is indeed a significantly greater availability of all data and review when looking for information and in this respect the ministry deserves praise. On the other hand, and this time we have missed, and we have also asked for this when the budget for 2022 was adopted, there has been a lack of review of all the projects and activities financed from the Solidarity Fund. So from the source 5761 5762. This is especially necessary now that the deadline for using these funds is extended which we did not know at the time of the adoption of the budget. The truth of such an obligation does not exist and technically speaking is not about the failure, but the situation is extraordinary and such a review would be useful otherwise, especially because there are confusing positions in post-traumatic renewal jobs which I will say a little more about later. In any case, such a complete review would help to look at the overall, overall picture of the intensity and dynamics of the renovations both in Banija and Zagreb. Compared to the original plan, total revenues increased by 6.5 billion, total expenditure by 10.9 billion. And now the deficit under this rebalance proposal is 13 billion and 700 million kuna. Compared to the original plan, the deficit thus increased by 4.4 billion. About as much for as much as the receipts have been increased. In other words, the increased deficit is covered by increased borrowing. On the other hand, these 13.7 billion deficits account for 2.9% of the projected GDP, with a deficit of only 2.1% of the projected GDP in the original budget. So we have almost 40% increase in the deficit expressed in the share of GDP, and this is probably the most spectacular and worrying data compared to this rebalance with the adopted budget. It is, of course, fair to say, part of the reason lies in our own decisions that are not related to global financial and geopolitical crises, which are reducing the VAT rate to some goods and services and that is, of course, a recent increase in the pay base for state and public officials. In the program section, as usual, the most controversial in health care. And now only half a year later, and that's already said enough in replicas, but I can't say again, after only half a year we have a new radical turn in fact step back. The funds for the rehabilitation of health institutions are increasing by 2 billion HZZO transfers by a billion and a half, de facto annihilated step taken in the adoption of the budget. And then it was very strongly highlighted and highlighted in the very reason that these funds were then reduced by 4 billion kuna. This is also reflected in the overall budget of the Ministry of Health because it is in '21. is both in the plan and in the execution of 22 and a half billion. Then we're in the original budget for 2022 planned at just 16.1 billion, now we're raising it to almost 20 and a half again. Now, whether it's a rectified delusion or a disenfranchisement in the state of health, we don't have the answers yet, but we will remind everyone, but absolutely all of the opposition were skeptical of the sustainability of such a strongly reduced budget of the Ministry of Health. Of course, the essence of the problem is already said today and the key solution is not in the Ministry of Finance but in the Ministry of Health. The renovation, as already said, is missing a full overview of all plans and projects or planned costs, and of course the change is expected. In the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction, State Property in Public Purpose Reconstruction Activities, the amount was raised from 5 to 9.5 billion, the funds from the Solidarity Fund, and in the same ministry, the damage caused by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and the surrounding area was reduced from 1.2 billion to only 1 billion, down from more than 11%. Similarly to the Ministry of Health, the capital project to restore the health institutions damaged in the earthquake was originally zeroed in order to now be raised to 140 million parts from the NPO, part of the Solidarity Fund. Then this in the Ministry of Science and Education capital project reconstruction and infrastructures and equipment in the area of earthquake-damaged education increased from 572 to 605 million, then the capital project almost the same name grew from zero to 107 million just being about other sources, once it was the Fund of Solidarity of the earthquakes March, second time it was the Fund of Solidarity of the earthquake December, at the same time the same ministry. The capital project again almost with the same name just as it is about higher education institutions has fallen from a million, a billion and 184 million to just 735, which is only 40% of the plan, the source here is also the Solidarity Fund, so there is definitely a need for explanations and a full review. And finally a few more separate things. The first thing we said was, I asked the minister in the replica to his presentation, and I expressed concern that the funds intended for the transfer, the transfer from the state budget to HZMO for the amount of 19.1 billion kuna will not be enough to pay the pensions because pensions in the second part of the year will increase significantly, with the next significant increase in the cost of life. This may be the moment to remind me of something else, often mentioned, for example recently mentioned by the newly appointed minister and today it was mentioned, often mentioning the efforts made by HDZ ministers and the HDZ government to increase pensions. I would, however, like to say that an increase in pensions is something which is therefore regulated by law and is extremely strict and extremely precise. The law provides for a half-yearly pension adjustment at a rate that is the weight average of the wage growth rate and the cost of life growth rate in the previous half-year, there is no good will of the HDZ, it is simply something the law requires. Speaking of pensions, I'd like to point out something else. We have this ongoing project called improving the pension system through an increase in the adequateness of pensions, that sounds nice, the project is funded by a 14 million kuna NPOO. What's that? Here's a quote: it's about making professional studies on the viability of investment of compulsory pension funds in state-owned companies where privatisation is launched or planned by independent experts, and for the sake of greater inclusion of pension funds in investment projects. I have to express no multiple but multiple skepticism about it. I don't see any real basis for such a thing, I don't believe in the reality of this proclaimed goal, and I especially don't believe in the 14 million kuna cost for these studies, in the 14 million kuna cost this year and the planned 14 million kuna cost in budget projections for 2023. Two, and that's not news, but I want to point that out one more time. In the Ministry of Defence we have on activities called Administrative Support to the University of Defence and Security amounting to 24 million kuna and something more. For '23. As many as 74 million kunas have been planned in this position, for administrative support to the University of Defence and Security. In the law establishing this unnecessary university, it said that no additional funding is necessary for the implementation of this law in the state budget. That's exactly what Minister Banozic said repeatedly here in the assembly, defending the law, so I remind you this year 24 million, next year 74. Thirdly, it is unusually important in the Ministry of Science and Education we have an activity called Assistants in continuing for children with developmental difficulties raised from 26 million to 29, however, it is neither close enough nor close enough since at the end of this school year they stop touching funds for this purpose from the European Social Fund. The minister answered our questions and verbally and in writing promised a solution to this problem, promised to take care of the funding of the assistants in the follow-up for the next school year, we do not see it in this budget or in this rebalancing. Fourthly, let's go again to praise something, in section 0.20 The government of the Republic of Croatia welcomes the increase in activity, the amount of support to combating hate crimes, we welcome the increase in the amount of national protection and the promotion of human rights and the suppression of discrimination from 113 to 345 thousand, let alone thousands if they are not already millions, but we are glad to see and welcome the increase of these funds. Lastly, in the Ministry of Finance to the activities of A818068 called Contribution of the Republic of Croatia to the EU budget on the basis of unrecycled plastic packaging waste, we have an increase of as much as 150 million kuna, and now it is even, it is now as much as 20% more than we had in that position in 2021. This should not be so and this is about serious failure or the least said about inaction because it is a lot of money we could use on many sides for useful purposes, so we plan to pay it in this budget rebalancing as a penalty in the EU budget for not taking care of plastic waste. And finally lastly, this is not up to the budget, as has been said many times today, in reality here are representatives of the Ministry of Finance, and actually, in fact, this budget rebalancing is very much a matter of more importance to some other resolutions and it would be much more important that there are some other ministers here who should explain the increase or non-increase of many positions in their portfolios. I'll do something about the Ministry of Science and Education, or his inaction. So once again, this is not up to the budget itself, but to the extreme concern, I would say even to the ignoring of which the Ministry of Science and Education towards accurate education. In the National Development Strategy and in the NPOO, we planned, or declared, the highly set goals for raising the general mathematical and natural literacy of our students, but we did absolutely nothing to ensure the key element for achieving these goals, which is to address the difficult and rapidly growing lack of qualified mathematics and natural science teachers. It was also discussed at a thematic session of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture here in the Assembly almost a year ago. Conclusions have also been reached with proposals for concrete measures. The Ministry of Science and Education does literally nothing to reaffirm these professions and support the education of new generations of mathematics and science teachers, which is deeply devastating, not only because the money from the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism is available but also because we should do it for ourselves. There is no excuse for inaction in that sense, and even if we had already attached it yesterday, we would have seen or felt the first results in 5 or 10 years. Maybe later. And until then, even if we had started something, and at that time, as long as there was such trouble and much longer, we would have been, and like this we would be sentenced to a free fall.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110965	Thank you. Thank you. Now the Centre and Voice Representatives Club will represent Mrs. GLAS first. You're dark and you're Tarritating and then Mrs. It's a pulac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110966	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. In 2006, the difference between health system expenditure and income from contributions was just one billion kuna. At that time, in the pension system, the difference between income and paid pensions was already 12 billion kuna. To date, the pension system in the government budget deficit is always somewhere at around 4% of GDP. The health system is unfortunately going the best way to get close. And now, we can't do that anymore. So in the year of Covid, when there were fewer medical procedures, we grew significantly the cost of drugs, including very expensive, and the main issue is where money comes from for wholesalers. So the next step has to be reform, something the Ministry of Health will suggest, if this kind of dynamic remains, we're in the same place for a year and we haven't done anything. This is not my word. These are the words of the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Marić, at the meeting of the Assembly Committee on Health a little over a year ago, 16 April 2021. And say what? He was absolutely right, which is why I decided to quote him. The problem is that unfortunately it's good and he predicted that things would go further, so in the meantime, really, it's been a year and indeed, health care is on the same page and nothing's been done. Nothing. My colleagues and colleagues, nothing. Not that there was no reform, no reform idea presented itself to the public. Nothing. This health care system of ours is in a tragic state, money in unreasonable quantities leaks everywhere, and it's already obvious to everyone. The service citizens are getting is getting worse, and less and less we have public health, and more and more we are being referred to very expensive private. The organization at Ministry and Government level is nothing. So let's not forget, in the end, that we're still a country with very few vaccinations, and very many dead from the crown, and hundreds of thousands of doses of vaccines we've donated or destroyed, about the calls of conscience that I'm not talking at all. About the fact that the state doesn't know at all or doesn't want to know how many summons there are in hospitals. It is only now that Minister Beros has called the hospitals to provide him with information on how many doctors, gynecologists, anesthesiologists, nurses are in the call of conscience. Not because he's called to his senses and not because he's now said, my people, so there's a problem in health, things don't work, but because he's got a parliamentary inquiry, so I've asked, Minister, let's see what's going on. That's why he called to his senses, not because he thought something had to be done. That or why even now mention the protests that have been these days, but to mention thousands and thousands of people who are stuck with this failing system. Because they don't have a private clinic because they don't have a relationship, they don't have the telephone number of Minister Beros, or they haven't been lucky enough to run into a doctor or a nurse who, despite everything, is still professionally and committed to doing their job. And then we're exactly where we are. No reform. No procedures, no ideas. Rebalancing again and seeing miracles, he's leaving for health care again. The same story you've been telling for years. But, dear ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ, you boast that you have the longest-ever prime minister and the longest-ever government in Croatia's history. Well, then it's a shame that at the time you didn't, or at least not a single reform, you spent a team bigger for you. I'm not surprised that in our health care system, money leaks everywhere. We've seen how the minister behaves. The employees of his friend’s company work 112 hours a day, or 112 hours a day, paid the citizens as well as millions for a covid app they stole from the Internet and never worked. And it's this latest story with an intra-operial radiation device for the KBC Sisters of Mercy. Two devices were paid, one came. Where's the other respected Mr. Minister? Of course if we do everything according to model pay two, you get one health care run into bankruptcy. Otherwise, I have given 4 amendments to the budget for this year, which amounted to just 20 million kuna and covered the purchase of these intra-operative radiotherapy devices for 4 KBCs that do not yet have Zagreb, Osijek, Split and Rijeka. 20 million for four devices, of course you refused the amendments. And look at the wonders of my colleague Beros gets one for 11 million, good success. And now I'm asking you all together if that's how we can work and how our country can function? To be fair, one part of the rebalancing is the direct consequence of a combination of instability caused by the pandemic of covid and Putin's aggression in Ukraine. Unfortunately, we don't have much choice here. We must try to maintain things as much as possible in normal, especially because inflation is not in favour of our ambition to join the euro zone. A particular problem is energy and their price. The gas warehouse around for security-technical reasons takes 3 months to fill up, which means that for the winter season it should start filling very soon. I'd say in a month, two at most. I think at the end of the day the country will be forced to intervene as much as we do not appreciate it. In this respect, I am underprivileged funds to secure a 10m-euro gas supply as provided for in this rebalance. But there's something that's quite certain, which is that in a few months we'll see the rebalancing debate again and because of international circumstances that we can't influence. But there's something we can influence, these are our domestic unresolved problems. And the basic unresolved problem is Croatian health care. And that's why I'm asking Prime Minister Plenkovic and Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Beros for how long? How long without reform? Until when from rebalance to rebalance due to health problems because no matter how much you open a large niche with health care, no matter how much money you secure never enough. Of course we at the CENTR and GLAS club have this rebalancing as we have not supported the budget absolutely cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110967	Thank you very much. Mrs. Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110968	Here's a thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as one analyst said the other day, says even 11 billion kuna is not what it used to be. So the government is proposing a budget rebalance for 2022, which is nearly $11 billion for 10.9 billion, so it's almost $11 billion bigger than the original budget expenditure plan, and I'd say no one should blink. So in public, you don't have any big discussions about it, no debate. I don't think even a single Open, the Open didn't even organize on the subject of rebalancing as if no one was excited about these numbers. So here we have on one side an increase in expected revenue by 6.6 billion kuna. In some ways it may not be a surprise, however, the surprise is the increase in planned expenditures by 10.9 billion and 9%, respectively, compared to 2021 and 6% compared to the plan. Now that we're looking at the biggest expenditure increase where it's been, it's already been heard several times from this pay phone, so according to public functions, it's about 3 and a half billion dollars for health care, 1.8 billion for pensions, 1 and a half billion for the indirect consequences of the war in Ukraine, an increase in the defense ministry's budget, better filling up the stock reserves, taking care of exiles. 550 million kunas increase the cost of employees and the rest of those billions to some of the ten smaller items. When you read this, so there's a table in this one that's on top, there's actually no more. We can, and we're already here, and a lot of our colleagues have been talking, so we're just gonna talk about an increase in health expenditure. Once again, we have growth in health expenditures that some call recovery, but it's not any recovery, it's simply donations of new billions into a bottomless hole. Last year, 6.4 billion kuna was added to health care. These were therefore additional unplanned funds allocated in 2021 for the settlement of part of the debt of hospital health institutions for medicinal products, as well as auxiliary and sanitary material. Let us remember the already famous session of the Health Committee he participated in and Minister Maric, not knowing that the session is being recorded, transmitted and yelled at the health minister that this can't happen anymore. But apparently he can. I'm asking here's a respected minister who's not here, I asked him here in the replica how long can he do that? When they're going to say finally enough is enough. Here's what I offered him, and I donate that one T-shirt so that he can come to the government's meetings, to meetings with ministers, because apparently no one listens to him. What's the special problem here, though? So, it's not just a problem that we're going to shut up the new billion in health care, but the problem is that after this many donations actually prevails here's how the law of inert or the law of video games says again when you get to one level of a new level, a new plateau when you reach that level with those heights is no longer back. Once we've dried up it's now bezlain and that's now the basis from which we pour the money away. I will call again, and I often mention when budgets and budget rebalancing are the Commission for Fiscal Policy, which has been repeating one and the same remark for many years, and these are uncontrollable increases in health expenditure, primarily debts and obligations of hospitals and pharmacies towards suppliers. It is particularly worrying that the health sector generates a new debt between 400 and 500 million kuna per month. In addition, the coronary pandemic of the virus has not yet been completed and the potential for a new wave of one of the coronal strains carries the risk of an additional increase in health costs. Furthermore, I quote this all, so I quote, the commission proposes to the government to evaluate previous and current activities in the health sector in order to determine their affairs fiscal effects on the development of the economy. The Commission considers it necessary and necessary to assess the future risks of budgetary expenditure, in particular given the growing debt of the health system, as well as the public sector wage system and the significant potential liabilities related to the business of local public companies. So here we have a Commission on fiscal policy, which neatly here gives its recommendations, neatly, again year after year, stressing the need to undertake reforms that would limit the growth of expenditure on health, pensions and compensation for employees. So, one ear came in, the other came out. We need reforms on all fronts, so I agree with colleagues who said earlier that money from the EU will not come forever. So, this little bank of pigs, to put it that way, we won't be able to use that refund money forever. The economic stagnation of Croatia will continue after this crisis, pandemics and wars if they do not start to solve how we like to call them structural problems. So the public sector is not shrinking, it is not reforming, it has remained among the worst in the EU. Political personneling in state-owned companies is also continuing. The reforms of the judiciary are gone, no longer mentioned. Reduce parafiscal burdens on entrepreneurs so they can breathe, create new values if there is no such thing. Bringing order into state property. Reforming local and regional self-government, reducing the number of cities and municipalities, the county is just a dream that we occasionally mention from this pay phone. And I'm going to have a few details here as much as time allows. One detail, the protection of the coastal area, to see how many years we use to protect the coastal area in view of the great problems with maritime good. 245,000 kuna. And one particular question, and I'll leave it here to Mr. Secretary, when the minister is gone, the question and the answer of the Minister of Economy to my representative's question about the particular problem of resuscitating the slag in the factory, the former factory of Dalmatia Dugi Rat. So, in the amendment to the budget, I asked that 15 million kuna be reserved for the recovery, Minister Coric of 10.3.'22. He promised the ministry would start the recovery, but we don't see any sign of it here in the rebalancing process. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110969	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Damir Bajs' turn, in front of the counsel club, thank you, Representative Focus and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110970	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, allow me to refer on behalf of Club Focus and independent representatives to the proposal for amendments and addition of the state budget for 2022. I will stress that it is the result of the economic situation that is happening in Europe and also in the world, meaning that the economy is falling and inflation is growing. And speaking of inflation, then I'm going to point out that that's what I said to the minister, part of the economists think that inflation is a friend to the state budget, to the local budgets, to the parafiscal burdens, and to the enemy to the living standard of today's population and of course to the economy. What am I saying that for? Because by wanting to, not wanting to prove it, this budget, that proves the explanation that he's writing here. In fact, it grows by 11 billion kuna, which is logical if we know that inflation increased by 5.7% in January to already 9.1%) in April. This means that the same volume of goods simply increases the revenues of all the budgets. But of course we need to watch what we do with these funds, where these 11 billion kunas go? At the moment, most EU prime ministers have come out with a proposal for new measures precisely for the situation. They are aimed at the population and the preservation of living standards, and on the other hand, of course, the economy. In these 11 billion kunas in expenditure, we don't see it anywhere. In fact, it is quite evident that the only funds that are intended for the population at all are the payment of that package that was before the Ukrainian war before this situation happened to us. And according to the economy, no measures are foreseen. Let's just say the minister, but everyone else was quite clear about it. We'll just see what we can do if there's a situation like this. But let's do a little math now. If inflation is about 10 per cent, and this 9.1 in April there is an indication and the growth, for example, of pensions is 2%. And if this becomes as planned for the next two years, as the European Union and the Commission have finally indicated, this means that, in this case, the euro or a thousand euros will be worth seven hundred euros in purchasing power. And the citizens will get a raise that goes a long way for what inflation really is. Whether it's going to be 2% times three, six percent, whether it's going to be 4% for civil servants this year, so we're going to put 12 percent. Mostly when we narrow it down to basic mathematical operations, 30% will be a lower value of money, and wages will be 12% higher. In one quarter, purchasing power will almost be reduced in three years. That's something we have to work on. By this we also mean the Croatian Parliament, but especially the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Are there measures for this other than those indicated? Apparently there are. They are presented in a number of countries both the EU and the world, but should be implemented. These changes and budget additions turn out that the Republic of Croatia is not planning anything for the time being. Will they plan to see that? It will be too late and it will be too late to change the trends ahead. And when we talk about the fact that they're talking about supporting the economy. And why is that? We're with last year's I have to say very good, even excellent nearly 10% increased from gross national income. In this year, there was a 2.3% plan. But looking at what is now happening there is a huge slowdown in private investment and private initiatives. There's a danger of us getting into a situation where GDP starts falling. And I think at a time when a good part of the economy has special problems that it needs to be taken care of. Namely, as with the citizens where the price is actually not important oil started from 10 to 17 kuna or, for example, anything else when you enter not only the food part, but the non-food part where you buy anything. This is also true for the economy, so the prices of repromation in agriculture are almost doubled. This will also be seen at prices when they sell, but part of the economy when I talk about agriculture, for example, livestock is in a difficult situation and are planning a reduction. It's quite clear, the farms are being closed, the production is closing, so from chickens to chickens to livestock in full. There's just no financial results. And that's what we have to pay attention to. Our autocarers in these fuel prices, not solving their rights, are also in trouble. Of course, what is yet to come should not be ignored. That's what the minister indicated and I think he was right, and that's an increase in interest that will be interest on citizens' loans but also on businessmen. But not those interest rates that you get when you put money on the bill if you have them. You know that this is exactly what will lead to lower demand after that in one good sector and construction, but also investment in the economy. We do not see any measures on this issue, and we do not just touch the situation that a part of our companies is even the Russian market, and even Ukrainianly, it was not our dominant and most important, but it was not insignificant that they were dealing with the Russian market where the state in other EU member states has already jumped in and helped them. There's no indication of any activity at this point, so for me, it's not just the part about income that matters. It is clear that this inflation has led to higher revenues despite lower VAT rates. This means that it is paid at higher prices and that it is ultimately spent and more. But we don't see that we're getting ready for what's just coming, which is a further increase in inflation, a reduction in living standards and, of course, perhaps the most important economies. Because everyone would be worried if the economic growth projection fell from seven and a half to two and a half, and it still decreased. Of course, we can expect miracles. I know that tourism will do everything in its power to help Croatia. Almost a fifth of GDP goes through tourism, but we should not rely on it, because it is not a sign that tourism is strong but is only proof that the rest of the Croatian economy is weak. And that's actually a fact. Will those funds that come in help? It might, but in September when we get here and there's going to be a budget rebalance again, we're going to see if we're going to have a situation like this that we're actually seeing from afar. As a clear Ministry of Finance, I'm sure the Minister knows that, but I'm sure our fellow citizens do, too, but I have to tell the businessmen. And when I talk about the expenditure part that is in the budget, I won't repeat myself too much, but it's clear that healthcare will still be in trouble, that the reform is gone and that even without a crown, health spending a lot more than was predicted. I must, of course, suggest that we certainly need to address the issue of defence and therefore obtaining appropriate systems for anti-aircraft activities that we obviously didn't have. We need to help our friends from Ukraine who are now in Croatia, but this cannot be a taste of the totality of this budget while other countries have completely different and clearer goals regarding what is yet to come. So when we talk about this, of course, we can't support this kind of change and the addition of the budget. I will also point out that I have given the amendment once again to this case and our local story and policy, which means that the equipment of the General Hospital of Bjelovar for the second time will be accepted, I believe it may be, but it is also much more likely that it will not be in this, at this moment and in the budget there are therefore support for KBCs, according to the KBOs, according to a series of general hospitals and of course it should be helped and perhaps the hospital in Mostar, but it should not forget the support for hospitals owned by the county in the area of Croatia. The last time the secretary of state responded to my proposal said that that's how, we gave money to Mostar, we gave money to someone else, but unfortunately we can't help you now, we might get another answer this time. Accordingly, here it is, I will finish my presentation and what I pointed out at the outset we expect not only from the Ministry of Finance, the ministry is carrying out activities, but from the government headed by the prime minister to, as well as other states, come out clearly with a plan according to what is now happening, according to inflation growth, falling standards, falling economies, and that measures that are not measures before the Ukrainian crisis, but measures that are currently being applied, that is what everyone in the EU is doing, we expect to do so in the Republic as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110971	You, too. Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic will represent the Social Democrats Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110972	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. If I had to describe this budget with a single folk saying then I would say late Queen Marko to Kosovo Field arrives, and the road to Kosovo Field pays for whoever, the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia, you, me, Grandma Zdenko of whom I bought strawberries in Dolca this morning. Unfortunately, that's the way it is, why? And the time and money of taxpayers would have saved us that, if the government had listened to us seven months ago when we discussed this budget because it wasn't about expenditures that weren't predictable, it wasn't about adapting the budget to the new situation in the world, and we can talk about war and supply chains that weren't who they were anymore, no, it's about pure stubbornness, unideabilities and not having visions of a government that wasn't able to predict certain things that were highly predictable and that we were already warned about. So, as has been said so far that I am not repeating myself, but in one part I have to repeat myself, most of this budget is related to health care and this health system that was not burdened with covid or still is, but this rebalancing is not because of the covid, but because of the fact that the reforms are missing. Our health system hasn't improved, it hasn't reformed, there's nothing that would guarantee some savings or at least make the system more efficient, but we're over-supplying again, I'd say from hollow to empty, we're filling the hole that we know, that we're going to swallow everything again, and that we're going to have to recharge it again, and that's again as I said because of my lack of vision, and because of the fact that the ruling didn't want to respect some of the things that the opposition suggested, or which we could very easily have predicted. Because at the end of the day it seems that the Ministry of Health appears to be mud, setting up a tender for photographers and florists, and the health care is falling apart like Putin's gold, disappearing, taking off, and underneath, it's only what's what health care and what it really is, and that's one big and ultimately inefficient system that doesn't guarantee patients that they'll get the care they deserve, when and how much they deserve it, and they pay it expensive and we pay it expensive and we're doing rebalans for it. Unfortunately, this rebalancing has not offered any of what we would expect from rebalancing, and that would be amortizing the emerging geopolitical situation, that would be amortizing the accumulation, that would be amortizing the disturbances in supply chains, that would actually be a relief to our citizens of the emerging energy-gathering situation, which then brings general inflation behind them, it's missing, it's not, it's just that in this rebalancing, there's just as I said patching holes that won't serve anyone at the end of the day. And what we were actually expecting from the government was a much more determined position in the fight against attacks against the standard of Croatian citizens who have fallen behind again. We cut taxes, did it get results, as many times as it has not, not only this government let's be honest with each other there were governments who did this before, but again we warned from this speaker that it would not give the results we expect because it happened that either traders increased their margins or they remained the same, but for the final consumers, nothing changed. And what really worries is the idealessness of this government when it comes to amortizing these strikes because another blow is waiting for us, which I fear is constantly ignoring and minorizing, which is the introduction of a euro that is definitely going to generate additional inflation, has done so in all the economies that have introduced it before in all the countries, has led to some addition of the smaller or larger now we can talk about it in ways that it has been implemented, but the fact is that the collection will come. And if we add war to that in Ukraine, if we add covid to the crisis, and now the introduction of the euro, that means a repeated additional and continuous blow to the standard of citizens, and I'm afraid that the income side of our citizens is changing very little because I'm sure that when we recalculate kunas into euros, or wages, it's certainly not. If you're watching and how much energy our entrepreneurs pay, but then the households, you'll see that we certainly don't have some happy times, at least while this is the situation. And it is commendable that in some way this blow tries to amortize at least craftsmen, small craftsmen who can finally pay energy as a household because I'm sure that a hairdresser who works alone or one carpenter who works alone has really no reason to pay for energy like industry or entrepreneurship because as much as he or she can spend, it's really not some load on the network. But that's what I'm saying, at the end of the day, it's not enough. Our already-started economy, which is under the grip of various pressures, and thank God, there are them, and now through this war, simply this kind of budget rebalance, these kind of government measures, this lack, the long-term view of vision will do nothing good. And that's why I'm already light and tired of being a bad prophet here. And why is that? I'll tell you the same thing. Often by ruling, we are accused, so I don't know, maybe my colleague, Peovic, who is after me, will accuse us of only being able to criticise us, and we don't know anything constructively, that the opposition can't be heard, that what needs to be heard, or what it should be, but not and what it does. But what's tragedy, colleagues and colleagues, and it's actually part of one of our political unculture is when the opposition suggests something, that it's not respected because it's proposed by the opposition. And it's not a problem, so let it be a proposal and rulings in the end, but I'm afraid it often doesn't reach that level. For example, for example, my colleague Romana Nikolic and I criticised this very vocally here, the law on preschool institutions, i.e. preschool education, and we tried to transfer it to a local level, i.e. we tried to indicate what shortcomings were at local level. And here, just for your information, as well as information from the Croatian public, the town of Osijek is the only one of four major cities that does not co-finance the accommodation of children in private kindergartens and protection crafts. Not because we want to encourage private kindergartens, but because there is no place in city kindergartens. 5,000 children a year stay out of preschool, not because they won't, but because there isn't room. And then one of the four largest cities doesn't do it, or it doesn't help parents to price them, if they already have to give a child to a private kindergarten or a storage craft is about the same as those who can do it in city institutions. We're talking demographics. We had an example of a mother who came to Osijek with her husband and child, so they moved to Osijek, they didn't have a grandmother's service at the hall, they had no choice, they didn't have anyone to leave the child, the child couldn't get a kindergarten because at the time the mother didn't work, when she got the job, it was too late, the enrolments were over. Is that how we encourage demographics? The more your mother has to do now, the more she has to do for kindergarten. So their budget, the mother got the job not enriched, but everything she makes goes to kindergarten. If we're going to talk about demographic politics in these frameworks, then, colleagues and colleagues, we can turn off the light right now. And this budget rebalance, not the budget, and God gives me no indication now that this government seriously wants to tackle these problems. And then they'll tell you, no, no, no, the National Recovery and Resistance plan predicts the expansion of kindergarten capacity, but colleagues and colleagues, the competitions are already running late. Let's assume they're scheduled today, all of them. To report to local self-government units that are also kindergarten owners, I'm only giving you an example. To go without a fault means that they get the funds, to write out tenders for the performers, to get the performers to report, to have no complaints about the tenders, means that everything goes as fast as possible, the first kindergarten capacities we see, are new only in 2026 or '27. depending on the mode of realization, i.e. how fast the performer can do it. So we're talking about 4, 5, 6 years we have to wait. In the meantime, there are no compensatory measures. And now you're going to tell me that this government is demographically sensitive, to worry, let's say, about demographically threatened environments in Croatia, such as Osijek, no. I don't see it in this budget. And the budget, at the end of the day, colleagues and colleagues, is the personal identification of each government, political. Because it's not what we're propagating or want or what we're world-famous, it's in the budget what we want to do. And what are we doing in this budget? We're just patching up the holes. We're just going from hollow to empty, and we're hoping to keep it as long as possible. In the long run, this is a disaster. In the long run, this is a failure, in the long run, this isn't going to do anybody any good. And I'm sorry that on the side of the ruling people we'll often hear that accusation that we're not suggesting anything, that we don't have any concrete proposals, that we're just going to be foaming about what's supposed to be. But, colleagues and colleagues, it's important to look yourself in the eye now and tell the truth, and all those suggestions that hold water and all those suggestions that have heads and tails and all those suggestions that could contribute to the improvement are ignored by the ruling ones because they come from the opposition. I don't think it's a shame to say that someone saw a mistake or someone suggested something good, although for every proposal I'm assessing good I'm going to vote or from the opposition it doesn't matter, but at the end of the day I think we're too little to lose in some political debates about what anyone did or couldn't or could have wanted or did anyway. We need to be forward-oriented, we need to watch what we can do now and with the resources we have. And I'm afraid that this rebalancing is far from showing us all the government's senselessness, all the lack of the government's vision, and in the end, we're going to have to have at least one more budget rebalancing precisely because our rulings wouldn't listen to us in some of the crucial elements of the budget. And that's why the Social Democrats Club won't be able to support this rebalas. Because of what I've said, it's a personal political ID of every government we consider to be very bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110973	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Grozdana Peric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110974	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State and Treasury, here we have before us, dear colleagues and colleagues, with a rebalancing or alteration of the Republic of Croatia's 2022 budget with projections for '23. And '24. The Law on the implementation of the State budget together with the users, as well as the implementation of the budget for 2021. The revenues of the state budget as you have seen are based in 2022 on the expected trend in economic activity, taking into account the fiscal effects of tax changes under the value added tax and excise legislation system and the aim of easing inflationary pressure on the population and the economy. In fact, this Law on Amendments and Supplements is based on the Law on Value Added Tax, which entered into force on 1 April 2022 and despite colleagues saying that the amending budget, and that is also when the budget was passed, that it was unethical, that it was inadequate, that they had much better and smarter proposals, we did not see that these proposals were so much smarter and more significant that they could boast that they would significantly improve or create any document that would be sustainable. In fact, as I said in the Replica Minister, it is very quickly forgotten that it is in the previous and '20s. and '21. Thus, the pandemic years were maintained and tax reforms were being carried out, and very quickly it was forgotten that both the economy and the population were being displaced, and in this way it was actually possible for all those influences that were in order to lead to an increase in how personal incomes and also to stimulate both investment and the economy as a whole. So according to this, the economy has shown really great resilience, and yet thanks to the measures that were taken in the previous period, where these entrepreneurs were then also stimulated and supported by the measures the government was doing, and then when we talk about what the pandemic did, we mention more times how much the hole produced from the missing revenues and from those stimulants over 42 billion. So these changes and additions of the budget were now made in a way that at the same time this value added tax was significantly reduced by a large part of the goods and services as well as the energy products which had a strong impact on that and should have helped to precisely inflatoric pressures that were already present at the time that and prices were actually not actually so much, so significantly increasing. However, the new plan also shows in the realisation of the budget itself for the first 3 months that there has been an increase in revenue, and these changes increase revenues by 6.6 billion kuna, of which 1.9 billion kuna is precisely from VAT revenues because the normal base is higher. And also 1.9 billion out of contributions, and 1.8 from VAT. The rest actually comes from European funds. In terms of expenditure and expenditure, the total expenditure increases by 10.9 billion kuna to 184.7 billion kuna from 173.8 to 184.7 billion kuna. What's the most important thing? It has been mentioned here several times that the most significant item is for health expenditure. And when we look at what is financed from general incomes, which is 9.2 billion kuna. Then we see that from these general incomes is a recovery in health institutions, in health care is about 2 billion kuna. For pensions 1.8. For the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance a billion and a half. Filling in stock supplies for nearly 800 million kunas, including housing care for refugees. We also see that with the agreement reached with the trade unions, there is also respect for increasing expenditure for 4% employees, which is more than 550 million kuna in primary and secondary schools. In state administration authorities, the increase in energy prices requires new funds of nearly 245 million kuna, and also support in the agricultural sector is about 200 million kuna. The funds have also been increased for the Republic of Croatia's contribution to the budget of the European Union of 169 million kuna, as well as support for the preservation of jobs, investment for health infrastructure, guarantee reserve, implementation of operational programme projects, effective human potentials. Then for sport and real estate management, as well as to provide gas and national minority programmes. All this suggests that indeed the biggest users and consumers are just health care, and then social protection, because we need to note that around 3.8 billion kuna has been allocated for pensions and projects under the Operational Programme, effective human potential precisely as is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy and General Public Services, Economic Affairs, etc. So when we look at who is the biggest consumer such as health care is true, it is true that we also need to make a thorough analysis. But we must also be aware that certain actions and certain reforms could not be implemented at the time of the pandemic. And I wonder if anyone would dare do that at a time when we've had too many deaths anyway. When we look at the changes and the budget additions themselves, so the budget deficit is going to be, it's planned at $13.7 billion, which is 4.3 billion higher than the previous plan. This overall deficit will be significantly greater. However, it will continue to be within what is given, so below 3% and will be 2.9% of GDP, which is below 0.9% and percentage points more than it was in 2022 with a baseline plan. When we talk about the law itself on the implementation of the state budget here, I would also mention that the Committee on Fiscal Policy has also given its opinion, two opinions on the same and the proposal for an annual report for 2021, and also on the rebalancing where, as the report says, they also mention reforms in the health and pension systems, and also warn of certain risks that I have risked and the changes themselves have already been installed in much of what I am rebalancing and shows. I would like to point out that, as the Minister pointed out, it is completely changing, in line with the Budget Law adopted, as well as the entry into force at the beginning of this year, and in this way, the Law itself allows for a much faster and more efficient application of certain provisions, simplifies some procedures, the possibility that users can manage over a period of several years, so at least three years of funding that they may have available from European funds, etc. Therefore, all that the Budget Law has now provided for by the Implementation Act is indeed and enables it to be applied to rebalancing itself. What I would still point out for the execution of 2021, so, in 2021, even though it seems to us that it has long ended in 2021 and has been achieved at 154.1 billion kuna or 0.3% more than the plan compared to the previous year, so these revenues have been increased even by 17.1%)%, expenditures have been made at the level of 169 billion kuna and that is 97.5 percent of planned expenditure. What should be noted, therefore, in 2021 was also a very demanding and difficult year, however, what is important to say that exactly the most significant expenditures in 2021 were made within the pension programme and pension income of $43.5 billion, while for staff expenditures, including in primary and secondary schools, 33.5 billion kuna was allocated. At the health ministry's positions, more than 17,5 billion kuna were allocated, of which more than 6.4 were additional funds to settle part of the debt of hospital health institutions to which the founder of the Republic of Croatia was. So, in that year, what I have previously mentioned has also led to some changes, both in tax, therefore in fiscal policy, where there have been significant changes and in the burden or discharge of entrepreneurs and citizens. All of this has to be noted that in 2021, increased expenditures were also for the purchase of aircraft, and also that a billion and a half were compensatory measures for local self-government units, which we must never forget. Here, according to that, as simple as anyone thinks it is, this is The HDZ will accept this proposal to amend and supplement. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110975	Now, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Dragana Jeckov, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110976	... Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished representative of the Ministry of Finance. [[Specially enabled.]] As we all know, the state budget is a dynamic area and must monitor the blood count of society and economy, so in this sense today we are also discussing this first year's rebalancing. State budget for 2022 that we've brought in 8.12.21. It envisioned revenue of HRK 164.5 billion and expenditures of nearly 173,8 billion and a budget deficit of 9 or 2.6% of GDP. That deficit was planned to be financed by the difference between the total receipts from financial assets and borrowings and the total expenditure on financial assets and the repayment of loans. With the rebalancing we are currently discussing, budget revenues are increasing by 6.6 billion kuna or 4%, and expenditures by 10.9 billion kuna so that the projected budget deficit will be increased from planned 2.6 to 2.8. Rebalance is simplified, can be reduced to three main reasons. Energy crisis, agreement with growth unions, basic pay and health expenditure. In any event, it should be noted that expenditure marking the resolution of the security situation in Europe as a result of the war in Ukraine, the appropriate reception and disposal of Ukrainian refugees, gas supply insurance, supply of supplies, an increase in the base for the calculation of salaries in state and public services by 4% of 1.5th, and the provision of funds for the measure to mitigate energy prices, including the subsidisation of gas prices and the compensation for the threatened buyer of energy. A good part of the amount covered by this rebalancing, namely 3.12 billion kuna, refers to the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, Family and Social Policy, so that the new minister will have considerable funds we hope to use in the right way. I point out that the funding of the transitional period, or project Zaželi, has been positively accepted. I spoke about the importance of this project several times after this speaker and also, I mentioned in the debate on the State Budget for 2022, so they are very pleased that the voice on the ground, especially the rural areas I have carried here, has been understood and accepted. Not to mention now that 748 projects have been agreed through the previous two phases. More than 9,800 women employed who cared for 79,000 elderly and powerless people throughout our country. These commendable projects were generally implemented, as I said in harder accessible and rural areas, in areas where the unemployment rate and the rate of long-term unemployment are higher than the Croatian average. The programme is multiplely useful, both from the perspective of women employed, from the perspective of users or older people and persons in a more unfavourable position and often employed women and users used to say that this is a concrete and extremely tangible project to be continued. For this reason, it is important after the short transition phase to get to a safer place, that will be dominated by EU funds and, as I said, which will be longer. The compensation for the threatened buyer of energy has also been changed and has increased from initial 120 million to slightly more than 380. The status of the threatened buyer or the right to co-finance energy costs may be achieved by the beneficiary of the guaranteed minimum fee and by the user of the personal disability up to a maximum of 400 kuna per month. Of course, we are all aware that this measure is not a solution to the problem but possibly its mitigation, but certainly something to point out. As members and representatives of the Serb national minority, they cannot praise the increase in funds in the Human Rights and Rights Office, especially those concerning the national minority programme. However, it continues to worry that a little less than 170 thousand kuna is intended to support the fight against hate crimes, which is certainly a significant step towards the initial 40,000 kuna. Reports of absolutely all the competent authorities of the Ombudsman, the above mentioned Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, and some bodies of international character such as the Advisory Committee for the Implementation of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, say that the situation in the hate crime sphere is getting worse every day, and therefore perhaps the opinions themselves should have been allocated to more significant resources in this item. And according to the statistics available by the MUP during 2021, they were treated for 101 crimes motivated by hate, crimes with elements of hate crime and the criminal act of public inciting violence and hatred, while 87 of these were recorded in 2020. So here I'm talking about the criminal sphere, so I hope we agree that the $170,000 mentioned to support the fight against crime is not enough. Unfortunately, the state of war can get out of people the worst, that some live on the torture of others, moral perversions get a special place, bad people in these situations don't survive from anything, so in the media, we can read about situations that talk about increasing human trafficking. Merchants mix with the population, offer transportation and, of course, grow fears that those who were happy enough to avoid death in Ukraine could be victims of human traffickers. It must be a long-term threat to both women and children in this area. The threat was strengthened by the conflict and the UN's International Organisation for Migration has already warned refugees fleeing the country to guard such traders who want to use a chaotic exodus. In this regard, it is unclear for me that we have a reduction in the resources foreseen for the implementation of the National Plan to combat human trafficking to 255,000 kuna. Although the budget of the Ministry of Science and Education has increased by 15 million kuna for some reasons, there was no room to increase the amount intended for the education of members of national minorities, regardless of what individuals think of minority education I think it would be good to increase the funds for preschool education for children members of national minorities because the funds continue to be allocated according to the formulas under sublegal acts at the end of the 1990s. After a significant recovery from the pandemic of the Coronal Virus in 2021, new challenges such as geopolitical tensions emerged, continued supply chain disturbances, financial market instability, and all of this occurred in the context of rising inflationary pressures. This, of course, results in strong challenges in creating economic policy, as well as fiscal policy, which needs to respond in due time to current and projected socio-economic changes in the domestic and foreign environment. The SDSS advocates' club will support the draft amendments and additions to the state budget law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110977	The Honorable Representative Daniel Spajic will speak on behalf of the House Movement Representative's Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110978	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In December 2021, I also spoke about the budget of the Republic of Croatia, pointing out two things, where I ironically praised the government of Andrej Plenkovic and his budgetary tractorists. These two commendations were like this: the first recovery program of 2 million kuna. So, for being negatively selective and corrupt, you expelled more than 10% of the population of the Republic of Croatia later, you went to some ridiculous amounts of people trying to come back. Of course, that didn't work. Unfortunately, we still have negative trends as far as that goes. The second commendation referred to an increase in the budget to fight corruption. You've singled out 18% for this item. When you say 18% that sounds a lot if it's about, for example, 10 million kuna, but if it's about 14000 kuna where the increase is from two and a half to 16 and a half thousand kuna, for a country that's third to corruption in the EU, then we know we didn't do anything. If Croatian citizens know that the average pension rate in the average salary in the last six years has dropped from 43 to 38%, it is one of the smallest in the EU. More and more of our pensioners are living below the poverty line, although as many as 17 and a half billion kunas of tax revenues are being transferred to cover pensions. If Croatian citizens know that the dueiosis in the health system is untransparently spreading and things are spreading, the ministers are hiding like a snake's feet. It is certain that some 22 billion kuna will be collected through contributions, and another five billion through participations, additional, health donations from the bill. It was certain that some 8 billion kuna would be missing in the following year, which would eventually have to be managed from the Republic of Croatia's budget. That's one of the reasons why we should be doing the rebalancing we're doing right now. The government also boasted that the share of public debt in GDP will fall in the coming years to levels that are among the smallest in the European Union. It's true, but the truth that hides real problems. After Milanovic's government, which owed the state between 70 billion and 80 billion kuna, we thought it couldn't go up there. In this, however, we were denied by Andrej Plenkovic with his trade coalition, which has been in charge of over 100 billion kuna since 2016. So where's the money? What makes Croatia a better country after spending all that wealth? 100 billion kunas we could have had our money under the quality management of state property, but we didn't. That's where we get the embarrassing 2.4 billion kuna. It is clear from the budget that we will allocate 7.3 billion kuna to interest on these debts, which is enough for every underage child in the Republic of Croatia to receive a children's allowance of 850 kuna per month, and this would be the right measure and the right of every child, not the social category and what we are giving which doesn't encourage our people to stay in Croatia. This would be one of the good measures. The budget also mentions the amount of 790 million kuna to take care of the returnees, refugees, and that amount goes up to over a billion next year, and over 3 years we will reach some 3 billion kuna. Then we didn't know what kind of exiles, refugees. I asked questions more than once, no one knew how to answer. But after the terrible war in Ukraine and the arrival of certain refugees in the Republic of Croatia are welcome and they need help, the only question is whether the Government knew what the situation in Ukraine knew before informing Croatian citizens, so it put it in the budget item? That's the question. At the same time, the help of returning Croats to Bosnia and Herzegovina will be a ridiculous 5 million kuna. So did we invest that we have Komsic on HRT "Sunday at 2" while the Croats breathe on the gills in Bosnia and Herzegovina, did we invest in it? You've invested 100 million kunas to promote a real or functional merger of local units. There were 80 splits to 500. So what do we want to do now? Does that mean they weren't functional before? Well, they're not. So they need to be abolished if they're not functional, not investing an extra 100 million kuna. What are we paying for? Thousands of pages of various documents and different nebuloses that smell seriously of corruption, instead of using a historical opportunity to launch in the EU funds Croatia and put on the pathways of sustainable development and demographic recovery, from budgets and rebalances, it is certain that we will lose an additional 4.5 years and even deeper into structural problems. When it comes to the rebalancing we're talking about today, budget expenditures rise by 6.6 billion kuna. Just as much as it takes for the budget deficit to be slightly below 3% to avoid jeopardising the European Union's decisions to approve the euro, well planned. It's a shame only for Minister Beros and his team that the government unfortunately has to respect this limit, he'd get more money for his black holes in health care. The main sources of funding for this rebalancing are increased tax revenues and further charity from the European Union. We have already repeatedly warned that budget revenues are already seriously dependent on EU aid. How are we going to worry about the budget when that 20% of the income disappears one day? Those of us who don't have plans to be in the Brussels offices and embassies then are very interested in how our public systems are going to work. And the opinion of Brussels and the view from there is the most important guideline for the management of the Croatian Minister, which is unfortunately what you showed yesterday when you said what inflation is speeding up and it will be two-digit. But it did not concern you because it does not go beyond the European Union average. So I don't care with all due respect what it's like in Bulgaria. We fight for ourselves. The fact that professors and pensioners will get raises that are significantly less than inflation doesn't worry anyone. The government boasts this morning that the pensioners will be given nearly half a billion kunas for energy subsidies, and the difference between inflation and pensions is several times higher. We raised pensions by 2.5%, invested 900 million kuna when our inflation was over 10%. Well, it's no help, we have to be realistic. The pensioners, like the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, breathe on gills. The largest source of additional revenue for financing this rebalancing is taxes, including a higher profit tax of over 800 million kuna. So again, extra pressure on the economy. I don't know if Croatian citizens know that our emigrants are 3 times more paid in Croatia than all foreign investors. Almost 6% of GDP makes payments from our emigrants in Croatia that are being paid in Croatia. They were even about 7% of GDP before this crown crisis. So we don't have a good climate in the Republic of Croatia, we don't have foreign investors, not because we have kuna because kuna is a stable currency, but because we have a corrupt country. But here, let's set aside 16 and a half thousand kuna to fight corruption. It's a shame to read this. What else could I possibly do? Well, the biggest beneficiary of this rebalance should be noted that it's healthcare again. When the budget was adopted, we pointed out that he was unrealistic in the health care area, that the health hole would amount to billions of kunas, which has now been confirmed by the fact that only part of that black hole was being covered. The rest is left for future periods, and Beroš and his florists and release consultants and suppliers continue as they were. What about health reform? Well, this Berosch is gonna wrap the whole country black with all the manifesto. The transparency of our budget which is a cabbage of several hundred pages best tells the fact that the largest individual item of increase has a name to watch this transfer between budget users of the same budget point. Whoever figures out what it is to let the public know, I'd like to know the same thing. I think in the tenth month, they're coming from Beroš's new covid certificate, because the people will slowly understand the state's situation. He'll want to go to the protests, but then he'll step on the main guy to stop the protests, all the traps on our dear Minister Willy who'll probably introduce a mandatory covid certificate, keep the people on a tight leash so they can't accidentally rebel against it so they don't get out on the streets. I think it's gonna happen sometime in 10 months, but here's what I said. You were alive and seen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110979	The next club of representatives will be the one for a just Croatia, and the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110980	Honorable chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. I can't help but start my presentation today with a sentence that most people won't like. Our citizens are killed by inflation, while the state is collecting more and more taxes and wasting them in a frenzy. It's my vision of today's rebalancing. The total revenues of the State budget are increasing by 4% and 6.6 billion kuna, respectively. The government's income, therefore, from the value added tax that the state raises by $1.8 billion and totals €62.6 billion, and the revenues from the state's contributions are increasing by $1.9 billion and totaling €28 billion. Since the state has already collected more money, it's time to spend it more. However, more will be spent than has been collected, so 9.2 billion total increases in our country's expenditure. The fact that inflation in Croatia reached 9.4% in April was no reason because it was obvious that the monthly rise in consumer prices would not be easy to stop. The trend in price growth has so far reflected the purchases that began to cause global congestion and supply chains, and now data integrate the consequences of the geopolitical crisis caused by war aggression in Ukraine. Although the majority of domestic economists in their analyses are trying to stick conservatively, they remain on the forecast of moderate price growth now becomes clear that we still need to expect the transition of inflation even to a two-digit number which will obviously not be recognised by the Ministry of Finance today or by the Croatian National Bank. But citizens see what's going on. Citizens have long been in fear and sound logic tells them that we are not ready to face this crisis. And why didn't we? For many years, our citizens have been waiting for their promised changes, they expect health reform, they expect reform of the justice system, reform of agricultural policy, reform of the administration. What have we got all these years? The crumbs from the table. About the health system a little later, considering he's one of the reasons for the rebalancing. But first I want to talk about our country's food addiction, because it worries me the most. For example, German Minister of Economic Co-operation and Development Sven Schulze has warned very realisticly these days in the Bild talks that the world is at risk of an acute crisis due to dizzy food prices. The situation is very dramatic because of the pandemic of the coronary virus, extreme droughts and war in Ukraine, world food prices have increased by a third and are now at a record level. The World Food Programme currently estimates that more than 300 million people suffer from acute hunger and constantly has to correct the figures by increasing its estimates. It's a bitter message that we've been threatened by the greatest crisis since World War II. Millions of people will die said Schulze. She equally commented on whether it's okay, for example, to turn German grain into green fuel when people all over the world are starving. No one wants to be responsible for increasing the number of hungry people in the world, we have to stop putting food in the car tanks whether it's wheat, palm oil, rape or corn. The share of 4.4% of fuel is food for humans and animals. This should be reduced to zero, not only in Germany, but as much as possible at international level. In Germany, 2.5 billion gallons of vegetable oil fuel is poured into car tanks each year. That's almost half a harvest of sunflower oil in Ukraine she added. Putin uses hunger to wage war. It takes advantage of the fact that many countries around the world depend on Russian and Ukrainian agricultural products. He stole grain from Ukraine and will export it to countries that are undoubtedly pro-Russian-friendly. At the UN General Assembly, 40 countries in which half the world's population lives did not condemn Putin's aggression. This is a concrete result of food blackmail vulnerability, she also said. What about Croatia? Is the mega crisis coming to us, too, and what will this rebalancing bring about positively? Inflation in Croatia feels the most citizens on their skin, prices rise, consumer baskets are increasingly expensive, and the end is not seen for now in these geopolitical relations. The crises have different sources, so the crisis in 2008 and 2009, respectively, had a spring in the decline of the US's bad credit markets, and this has spread to the EU as well as to Croatia. Since the 2009 crisis, where gross domestic product has fallen more than 13%, Croatia has recovered for about six years. Now we have this price hike shock above all the energy. Energy accounts for about 65% of total price growth and the energy shock we are experiencing now can lead to a reduction in economic activity which will also have its consequences. Russia's aggression in Ukraine has burdened the market further, so there are now a number of different manipulationists who think they can make a profit on oil and buy it at high prices to resell it at even higher prices. Europe and Croatia were dependent on rather cheap Russian gas, and now it is difficult to change this habit of consumption of Russian gas and to turn to some other energy products, especially if you are a country like Croatia that has limited its citizens to energize themselves, and in parallel, rather similar to some other occasions, you have enjoyed certain individuals. Our citizens are interested in the answer to the question whether we are at the top of the price collection of food and energy, or whether the peak is still waiting for us? If food production were our local thing in which we wisely and systematically invested, we certainly wouldn't have come into today's price-dependence situation and the quantities dictated by other countries. Equally, we did not benefit from large systems at the expense of small family economies, surely we would not be worried about the lack of basic lifespans such as milk, meat. It's simply unacceptable to transport food thousands of miles away. Those who do not have enough food production today have serious problems. On the Croatian market, frozen chicken came from Brazil, beef from Argentina, which is all very expensive nonsens. Croatia has great potential for food production, and the ruling ones are obliged to organise local food production. Public procurement in Croatia has so far preferred low prices, so public institutions when they were getting food bought chicken from Brazil because it was the cheapest. But is it good for the domestic market, for people who consume it, for the Croatian economy? No one's even thought about it. That's why things are changing tectonically now, and in the coming years we'll see how this monetary policy and the reduction of money in circulation and the impact on inflationary movements and in general on the market. And now for a little bit about health care. I simply must say a few words about the device intended for the KBC of the Missile Sisters commendably, of course, because it is about the purchase of medical equipment for the Wine City Hospital, but that same device has been overpaid by 111%. Let us also mention the fact that USKOK has launched reconnaissances in the event of disputed payments by the Ministry of Health, Kuspis, owned by ministers of friends Vinko Kujundzic, who received contracts for the upgrade of information programmes. Kuspis only charged $1.75 million for 12 days, with their money being paid back in 2020. According to the State Audit report from the payment documents on the basis of which you account for services and paid an account, it is not clear how many persons there are and at what extent, but at what time period these services were performed, so they issued a warrant to the Ministry to verify the truthfulness of the invoices before they were settled. It is not burning in the context of this story to remind that Minister Beros and Kujudzic also co-operated on the "Break Up" platform, which still experienced its fiasco. Meanwhile, the Croatian public finds out that Kujundzic is a close friend of Minister Beros, and that they are still flying together in the same place. Otherwise, Kuspis grew up from London Kuspis, whose co-owners were Vinko and Maja Kujundzic, and its business flourished in 2018 when Beros became assistant to former health minister Milan Kujundzic. The health minister has not solved debt problems according to large-scale drugs that exceed 5 billion kunas, nor is the end of the waiting lists problem seen. If he's going to, he's going to, but this rebalancing is going to help us too, so let's all see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110981	Thank you very much. Now, before we continue, it is my great pleasure that after two years of not having visitors at the gallery we can welcome the students of the Croatian Faculty of Communications Studies in the course of business communication colleges, so I suggest we welcome them with applause. And now we will continue to work, and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, the respected representative Katarina Peovic will speak. [[Applause]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110982	Good afternoon. Hello to the students of communicology. And so I asked what the Minister will do this morning or what the State will do if there is an increase in the ECB's interest rates and if they produce a recession means an additional rise in interest rates and if they produce a recession, a drop in production, an increase in unemployment and a rise in public debt, whether we will be able to implement anticyclical policies that would ensure the compensatory growth of public spending or continue to implement policies of financial consolidation and correct the European Stability Pact semester, etc. So we know that the crown is that these rules are suspended. The minister said it's already happening. So that's true. So, the question was how much interest rates would be raised, especially after the euro was introduced. What we must note and what many here have said is that indeed of those 5 criteria for the convergence of price stability, interest rates, deficit, public debt, the stability of exchange rates prescribed by the Maastricht Treaty in 1992 for the accession of new members to the European Monetary Union or for the entry into the Eurozone of Croatia for years meets the criteria of public debt below 60% of GDP in recent years or by the corona of the crisis does not satisfy the general government deficit criterion below 3% of GDP, and since this year it does not satisfy a significant third criterion for the macroeconomic implications of the most important price stability criterion, which says that the inflation rate must not be higher than 1.5% of the average member rate with the lowest inflation rate in the previous year and according to current trends, it is likely that from the entry of that criterion will be even more pronounced by the end of the year. But it seems that the people of the government, and especially the people of the CNB, don't put it in place. I will warn that in itself, the very definition of the purpose of the function of the target and any sense of the CNB stands as the first and primary objective, means control of inflation. They obviously don't deal with it. It's obviously not their question at all, nor do they think it's their goal. They generally act as if everything was imported, we do not have any mechanisms to deal with it, and by entering the euro area the CNB will actually further resolve any responsibility and transfer all responsibility to the euro area and integration, further integration means in the European and financial framework, and I think that the CNB function itself is becoming questionable at all. And we from the Workers' Front are actually calling for the CNB to be renamed because it is really and essentially not the Croatian National Bank. The people have nothing to do with their existence. But what neither the government nor the CNB is going to address is that of these meanings of the convergence criteria we really need to notice are not respecting any of them. And what's the same thing to say is a cynical argument is when you say that we don't meet the convergence criteria, that it answers you that it's about all the happiness that we're going into the Eurozone because I don't think normal conditions are even going to be able to get into the euro area because we don't meet the convergence criteria as if by some principle I mean neoliberal policies we shouldn't meet those criteria because of someone else, but I guess because of ourselves, because then we can't talk about any integration into financial flows, nor can we talk about any convergence if we go into the euro zone, and we're not ready for it. Well, that means people from the government or the CNB don't get too set up. They push us into the eurozone at all costs, regardless of the criteria and consequences of introducing the euro for the working majority. In any case, we can only conclude that they are counting that their standard will not be questioned, in particular, by the people of the CNB who set their own salaries and these salaries are far more than any pay in the public sector anywhere. The minister said that the share of public debt in GDP is reduced each year, except for 2020 when the crisis was corona. Of course it's shrinking, but it's not below 40% as prescribed by the Mastricht, and in recent years, the crown has increased as well as the deficit. But now inflation is really a key problem. Both the criteria and the conditions that we are not meeting right now, and towards the end of the year and approaching entry into the euro, it is only likely that the situation will get worse and worse. Unless, of course, interest rates are further raised and recessions are produced which will reduce inflation, but public debt and budget deficits will grow. The thing is, therefore, and I mentioned this this morning that we in the EU as well as other countries are now allowed not to adhere to the criteria of the Stability Pact, the European Semester because of the crown, because of all the extraordinary conditions. But when inflation is actually happening, when this inflation is wild, it is quite likely that it will start to insist on it again, and actually I think, from the point of view of the conditions that this budget has put to itself as a framework, we cannot say that the budget is shocking or that it is expected in the frameworks that he has set for himself, but does not take into account what will come. So we haven't fallen as far down as we can and how much we're going to fall, especially when we enter the euro area. And then again, as in 2010 to 2015, we will have an extended recession, because the state will no longer be able to use anticyclical micro and macro-economic levers, i.e. it will not be able to stimulate aggregate demand through public consumption, investment. So we're known to have stayed the longest in that crisis in 2008, the ninth year. We can expect this to happen again. So this neoliberal Stability Pact that restricts the ability of the state to borrow, i.e. deficiently finance investment spending, is indeed only temporarily put out of force. Between 2015 and 2019, I also think that often it is not mentioned at all in these discussions and actually serves as a cheap balling between the SDP and the HDZ, but it means between 2015 and 2019 we also had a conjuncture as well as other countries, so that's why the deficit, public debt was reduced, and then Corona came. The European Union has allowed countries to freely borrow, spend, in order to compensate for the fall. Now there is no crown, or it is not in that symbolic sense that it is imposed as a major issue and has inflation and is announced to raise interest rates. With this in the package comes the return of restrictions on state spending, but we're not exactly going to hear the meaning of HDZ, that's not exactly what you're going to say, although in some way Minister Maric said that in response to my question because it's actually real. But if I look at myself from a narrow perspective and repeat what I can do, which I can't think of, we can't talk about rebalancing in some negative way. What could be noted is a criticism of some broader policy being conducted here by non-progressive policies, and above all there is thought of tax reforms initiated by Minister Maric. Five tax reforms, five waves of income tax reform, which are all in turn, were indeed what one of our late economists said in the fifth bourgeoisie reform, the reform for the petty bourgeoisia, those over 25 thousand kunas got the most. So people with salaries over 25 thousand kuna got the most of these tax reforms, 1500 kuna more on the salary, while those with salaries of about 10 thousand kuna got only a few hundred kunas, and those with less than a hundred kunas. So it's really about those who already have high salaries going hand in hand not taking into account that, I think, in Croatia where we have some of the lowest salaries and minimum and average salaries, it's really important to raise the salaries of most, working majority, so the working majority of them, almost 90% have salaries below 15 thousand kuna. So who did we hit here? Certainly not to that majority, is it? Not only is it good for them some aspect of social justice, but it's really good from the aspect of the economy because it's about people who spend on basic food, hygiene needs, meaning not on luxury. Consumption is indeed what would stimulate our economic growth, and when we talk about it, we really are, and that's one of the indicators of how poor we are, the very large percentage of wages are spent precisely on these basic food and hygiene supplies, in richer countries, that percentage is much smaller. In our case, people are really spending on what is most necessary. Such tax reform would also encourage economic growth, not to mention that we could speak and plan smart social and economic policies that would go towards encouraging our pharmaceuticals, and therefore we will certainly support our amendment by supporting larger investments, a larger amount for the Immunological Institute, which again, I think, in this budget, i.e. the budget rebalancing of the budget, without some significant figures, even though it is said to be renewed, that it will build, I don't think it's realistic either by this budget or by budget rebalancing. Or, for example, it could be invested in the food industry, food self-sufficiency would be increasingly important, and it was quite likely how important it was and how much work should be done at the time of the crown and I remember a statement by Minister Marić, which I might frame and put here, as a relic, I don't know what kind of moment because I really welcomed her, at the beginning of the Corona Minister Maric said, we just know and understand how important it is to develop our food industry and pharmaceuticals, and we will focus in this direction. I mean, it was that one sentence, and unfortunately after that, it wasn't exactly a revolutionary progress in that direction, but I would say, I would certainly welcome the policy. But well, that would be some progressive policy, I say, within this budget rebalance we don't have some, I mean, criticism or any comments because it's more or less, and I mean, within the limits, as it says, possible. In any case, by rebalance of the State budget for 2022, the biggest increase in expenditure financed from general incomes and receipts was planned, meaning for health recovery, 3.5 billion kuna, here we can only say that the opposition really warned that the budget was not realistic about health, there they were, would all in the opposition agree more or less and warn that there would come a rebalancing which is coming, but it certainly is expected. For pensions, so what has increased in the rebalancing, that is, that is, pension expenditures, 1.8 billion, expenditures related to the consequences of the war in Ukraine 1 billion and expenditures for employees of 550 million kuna. All negative aspects of dissatisfaction with these convergence conditions, in particular the inflations I mentioned, should not be broken on the back of the weakest. The tightening of the belts, meaning the classic, fiscal contractions, the break of those criteria to the most endangered, but it means now according to this budget rebalancing and at this point, we're afraid we're not seeing the worst yet, is that, that the worst is actually just going to come. That would be in principle, so as far as the amendments are concerned, we will stick to some of our standard places that no one will warn, which is how much money is spent on the Church, how much is spent on dangerous historical auditism, how much is spent on the military, means even though we've warned more times, I think that the absurd fact that by joining NATO, the alliance has been said that we are going to spend a lot less money, that we are safer, so the instructions that we should stand out about 3% of GDP, now we stand out more than 2%, which was NATO's recommendation, but we've accepted it bothly as soon as it's arrived, and we are going to single out even more because this budget rebalance is being imposed on something like that, or something like that. In any case, we give more to assistants in the special-needs class, which every time we warn that it's not enough, that continuing assistants really need to be leveled with employees' rights indefinitely, they can no longer be temporary, it's not even a seasonal workforce that gets a contract only over the year, and then over the summer they leave without a contract and then come back, so in September. Also, for various social transfers, we think that we should really give more, we think that we should give more for the housing of victims of domestic violence, which is increased in the budget itself, means but it is still insufficient, as well as for science that is as always denied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110983	Thank you very much. We're going to take a short break now because the information needs it, so here we are, we can see you in 15 and 55 minutes. 55. Meeting in 15.47 hours. CONTINUED AFTER THE STAND IN 15.47 Dear colleagues and colleagues continue to work with individual debates and will first speak the respected representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110985	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. So it is always good when changes and additions to the State budget for the current year are discussed at the same session when talking and discussing the implementation of the budget for the previous year, then I think we can have an accurate insight into what the amount of revenue per item or expenditure was. It should not be forgotten that this 2022 year has seen a strong economic downturn at the level of the entire European Union caused primarily by the pandemic of the coronary virus, but we also have new challenges of geopolitical tensions, supply chains, financial market instability, we have growing inflation, and therefore in the Republic of Croatia we expect to see consumer price inflation as much as 7.8%. We could see that total revenues are planning an increase of 6.6 billion kuna, while expenditures are increasing by 10.9 billion kuna so that they will total 184.7 billion kuna. I'd like to talk a little bit more about this spending side, because when we talk about incomes, we'd all like to have as much income as we can, and that's where we're trying. However, the expenditure will certainly be discussed whether some expenditure and some expenditure items should be reduced. I was glad to hear before even my colleague Peovic said that there are no major objections to this rebalancing. Now that we're talking about the expense side, what we can see is that the most resources go to settle the obligations of health care institutions. So the Ministry of Health gets as much as 3 billion 889 million kunas more. The appropriate reception and care of Ukrainian refugees also require increases, so that only for private accommodation financing is guaranteed 285 million kuna, while 37 million kuna is provided for the health protection of foreigners. Why am I saying this? Because I think if someone calls for an increase in extremely high expenditures it would be good to say here I am against being even more isolated for health care or I don't want that much resources to be allocated to the care of Ukrainian refugees. Or, for example, In order to support job conservation, the item receives as much as 367 million kuna. Of course, we know that the funds are also provided for measures to mitigate energy prices. The total expenditure on subsidies is €9.3 billion, which is an increase of €1 billion primarily due to an increase in the allocation to support the agriculture sector, due to the resolution of the security situation in Europe due to the aggression in Ukraine. The total aid also increases by 4.8 billion primarily for recovery, as said by the health care institution, but also for increasing the expenditure on primary and secondary school employees due to changes in the wage base growth. We know that negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Union have been successfully concluded and that this basis has been increased for the calculation of salaries in state and public services by 4% and, of course, the expenditure side should therefore have been increased. Citizens' and households' fees also increase by 2.3 billion kuna because additional funding from pensions had to be provided to ease the price of gas. 65.9 million kuna is provided for co-financing of European projects. It is assumed that there are smaller municipalities and cities that can't even make the most of 15% if 85% of the EU's grants are provided on their own, so 65.9 million kuna is provided for that purpose as well. The most joyous that we have employment growth, in this original budget was projected by 1.7% and by these changes as much as 2.8%. If we look at a few figures, we see that in 2019 there were millions and 555 thousand employees, and then 20 fell by 1.3%, and then it increased again 21st, and now already in March this year means before the tourist season we have an increase of 1.3% higher and over a million and 550 thousand employees. Here's to the expense, the revenue side, I didn't make it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110986	We've got more replicas. The first is a respected representative of Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110987	Dear colleagues, there may be something about the subject, but I'd like them to pay a little attention to both the colleagues and the ministry, so maybe later they'll answer me or take my word. So the state stopped the rise in the price of electricity for the public, for the household which is fine. But it's not for the economy, and now we have one problem. This is what my colleague Bulj pointed out today, but you couldn't quite understand him for subjective reasons. In Šibenik specifically after the calculation because the current went 3 times higher, 300% is about the electricity offer will have to be priced approximately for water raised by... %. [[You don't understand.]] This is not only a case in Sibenik, but it means most of the water lines in Croatia. Can you make a model? I don't actually know what to offer to get through water in some way or to get the electricity sold to the plumbing also subsidized or to stop its rise?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110988	Dear representative Juričev-Martinchev [[Intruder: My colleagues, this has been directed to you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110989	Thank you very much, colleague Zekanovic. We know that cities and municipalities have a growing problem, given the increase in electricity prices, it is not only public lighting but also heating in institutions, especially kindergartens and the like. Even here, I referred a replica when we had recent changes and additions to the Law on Preschool Education, and it is certain that this is a subject to sit and discuss, however, and I personally talked to the president of HEP, they believe that this was also too much of a burden, that only by the rebalance of the budget, if significant funds are to be allocated and co-financed, then it is possible, and otherwise it will not be feasible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110990	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110991	Thank you, well-respected chairman, dear colleague. Given that the united points today are ahead of us and the annual report on the implementation of the State budget for 2021, which primarily shows a strong economic recovery and strong economic activity in 2021, resulting above all in an increase in real GDP by 10.2% at the end of the year, which is the only EU country with two-digit growth other than Ireland. We also had a small increase in trade by 12%, but also very crucial and important, and an increase in exports by 28.5%, while imports amounted to 23%, thus covering imports with exports for record now, 67%. But also, we had a successful tourist season. Since you come from that part of the Republic of Croatia, So we see progress in all activities. [[Thank you. Dear...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110992	...representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110993	Thank you very much, Comrade Mazhar. Just like I said, I didn't get much on the revenue side. And I'm happy to see that 3% increase in economic growth, and then we can see that profit tax revenues are planned for these changes and additions, even a 10% increase. When we talk about projected VAT revenues, then we can say that given inflation, there will be an increase in the price, and then they can be higher incomes, but surely they will, and thanks to the increase in personal consumption, and all of these measures, from active employment measures, support for jobs, as well as tourist services and investment, all of this will contribute to the growth of income that will, we can say, only 6.6 billion because it would certainly be in our interest to be as minimal as the expenditures are increasing. But in any case, a 3% growth in the economy is a joyous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110994	Dear representative Pocrnic-Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110995	Thank you, dear colleague. The state budget has a significant impact on the standard of our citizens and on the availability of services that must be guaranteed to everyone in the same way within the same range. I come from Ličko-Senj County, the largest populated county with the lowest population that is constantly decreasing and thus we come into the situation that many of my fellow citizens are reducing the availability of certain services. I'm going to look at education, for example, where there's an example. a small number of students led to a reduction in the number of class departments prescribed by the Ministry. This also reduces the number of programmes and choices for students who are forced to go to other parts of Croatia, and there is little chance that they will return after schooling and return. We MPs must send messages to the Government and the Ministry to take care of the even regional development and specificities of individual areas so that all citizens in the Republic of Croatia have the same opportunities in the same range to use budget funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110996	Thank you. Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110997	Thank you very much, colleague Porniæ. Well, balanced regional development is also the goal of the Republic of Croatia, but also of the EU, which means that not only our funds but also our European funds are given priority to projects that have an impact on making development as balanced as possible. When we look at this budget rebalancing, we have an additional 21 million in the Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, however, the Ministry of Agriculture through which numerous projects are also carried out in terms of administratively balanced development or financing of those projects in settlements below 5 thousand inhabitants, etc., gets an additional 219 million kuna. I expect these additional funds to go in that direction and to that end.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110998	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u110999	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. In your replica, you referred to a statement yesterday at a convenient meeting of Sibenik-Knin County by President Milanovic, which criticises almost no increase in EU funds. However, only in the budget item, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy shows that this rebalancing has increased funds for the implementation of EU funds projects, e.g. so popular and eagerly expected extension of the program Zaželi, 405 million, personal assistants 56 million, expansion of the service network 16 million. Also, a very demanding and significant program... Almost 10 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How, then, can you compare his claim and the data that you made in the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111000	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111001	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Murganic. I will repeat because obviously President Milanovic keeps repeating, I would say, mantra how we got and we're only 5 billion in plus. Then, I don't know, when she repeats it a couple of times, then she's so shyly saying that we're in a plus. Once again, 125, over 125% we have contracted funds, 70% paid, the difference between paid and paid funds when it comes to the EU budget is more than 49 billion kuna, and with the funds obtained from the National Plan and the Recovery, together is 55 billion points 22 kuna, which means that we are 55 billion in plus, and not as he has been saying for the past few years that we are 5 billion in all plus. That's a negligible amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111002	Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111003	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, as I have already pointed out, and in my opening speech, despite all the challenges, we note the continued growth of employees, salaries, pensions and this rebalancing provides additional funds for their further growth, so you also mentioned 4% of the growth in government and public employees' salaries. They also provided rebalancing funds for the further growth of pensions and energy supplements that started paying off last Friday, and you mentioned concrete measures directly affecting the number of jobs or job creations, which are active employment measures, so it might be good to explain a little more the most popular measure, which is a self-employment measure, but also to point out once again the importance of women's employment measures through the project Wish.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111004	Thank you. Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111005	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Buric, for the active employment policy we have reserved 107 million, we have now additionally singled out 29 more so that a total of 135 million kuna will be available on the subject of the active employment policy measures. To support the preservation of jobs we had 50 million kunas, and now an additional 367, which is 417 million kuna, now that's enough to say that it means 7 times more funds we've allocated than we originally predicted when we put the budget together before the end of 2021. And of course, with all these measures, we have come to say with pride that in the 3rd month of this year we have more employees than we had in 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111006	The following will be spoken by the esteemed representative Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111007	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's something I want to tell you about maybe the rebalancing and the implementation of last year's budget in my own way because we witnessed on Friday that the progressive opposition was ultimately requiring the disbanding of HS, today the government is doing something better, it's good and I think all these discussions are going in that direction, there are no big objections to this budget rebalance, so things are actually getting a little clearer, we see who's doing politics, who's doing serious work, that all of what we do in some way over the year we spend and bring it right this end of the year, and then there's six little years of these two governments of Andrej Plenkovic, and when I think of some time ago, we've been through and then the crisis periods, we remember in 2009, in '10, '11, and so until '15. those financial crises, the global crisis we're almost 7 years from now. We should come to a certain right direction or a proper path, so when we see what hit us all in these six years, I think it's clearly drawn out and see that this government still has a lot of professional people, people who know and can fight for the improvement of their citizens in every way and in every way and I think that if we look at those 6. Practically, except for 2019. which was the only one without some major crises or some crisis situations we haven't had a single year in which you could plan and bring a budget, and then implement it without a lot of rebalancing or a lot of repairs. Let us remember 2017. Agrokora, then 2018 shipbuilding with all its problems, fires, floods, national security, then 2019 well, pa 2020, 25.2. first case of pandemic i.e. Virus in the Republic of Croatia, then 2. And those 45 billion that some are just so easy to see here as a cost that should have been settled to preserve jobs, to preserve our employers' business, that the state can still pay higher pensions, bigger salaries, and that we can sort of end this story, so we hoped that this year we would end this story, 24.2. the new problem appeared to us, but near us, Russia's aggression to Ukraine and automatically as a chain in some way completely broke everything. When I remember our debate when we were bringing this budget, we brought it in last year 8.12 with 77 votes in favour and 49 against we really had great expectations since 2022. and no one in my head thought I had a situation that would happen only two months after that, or in my mind, unfortunately what happened happened and we see a reaction from the government that was both timely and good to me. First of all, when we talk about energy, we really did everything through this 5 billion package that is now being implemented in this rebalancing to help everyone to sort out and that part is the least painful of what might happen to us, and then again, there are new costs, we have refugees in the space of the Republic, we have all the other problems that need to be solved, and they're still being transmitted, I say we haven't finished the story with the pandemic, we still have some expenditure that will probably take us a while, but when we look at the numbers, I think we can say that they are positive, indeed, from year to year from 2016. Every year that growth was higher, last year in a year we managed to return from -8.1 from 2020 to +10.2 in the last year and simply from time to time you see a government that is really trying to solve what is worrying us all, and these are fears that have arisen, so I will say at sea with us without tourism, etc. And they still haven't stopped and we don't know what's going on for the next month and what's going to happen tomorrow and after here's the entry of Sweden and Finland into NATO or some other situation, no one can know or predict it, but we're here to do or plan what we think will happen. I think what happened to the increase in income, but also the expenditure that will be based on the implementation of the budget at the end of the year, and I expect it to be at least at the level of 2021 when we have actually achieved better results in revenue, less results in those expenditures and that it will be And this year, and I think we're all gonna get better. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111008	We have more replicas, she is the real respected representative Pocrnic-Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111009	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Boric. You said that some people understand the government's efforts and that our opposition really criticises the government, and that's their job, and it also criticises when it helps citizens and when it responds to difficult emergency situations, when it reduces VAT, when it subsidises energy prices, when it raises pensions and minimal beaches, when it helps entrepreneurs. Hypothetically, if it hadn't been for all these government measures aimed at maintaining the standards of citizens and the economy, what would the situation in the country have then? Would citizens be in a difficult position or do you think it would be different? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111010	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111011	Thank you very much. So I think if I were to mention this 45 billion if it had been rerouted to anything other than the costs caused by the pandemic, we'd probably all have a slightly higher salary, probably even bigger pensions, but we'd probably have some other situations, but we'd certainly have some space that was created in 2016-2020 and where the budgets ended at the end and in surpluses, but what happened and what happened to these things just as a global one we can't affect ourselves except that we can take care of them. And I think we're doing it well, that we've done everything we can to raise wages through tax reform, but especially in the public sector. I'm going to mention 18.3% in the past time plus 4% agreed on this year that's 22% increase just when we're talking about basics plus what happened through tax reforms, we can certainly conclude that these salaries that some are talking about this kind of underestimation have increased between 25 and 40% depending on the situation, but I think we did what the state can do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111012	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111013	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A fellow Boris here at the beginning of your individual debate you mentioned last Friday and an attempt to resist the disbanding of HS, so I would say that the football jargon team entered a pre-lost match, scored a few auto goals, but even in the end it didn't have enough players for the game and the Croatian public saw it. However, equally important if not most importantly what experts and institutions are seeing are dealing with such things if today we are talking about public finances and the macro-political Republic of Croatia that the Republic of Croatia currently has the highest credit rating in its history with positive prospects, that the European Commission praises the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the 34 reforms it has made in the past few years, that we are therefore receiving millions and billions of euros from the EU to recognise the stability of public finances and to recognise both the stability of both the Croatian Government and the HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111014	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111015	Thank you very much. I think that the time of entry into the EU here is what I think some good course has experienced in these last few years where we see all the benefits of it, as much as we suspected of this project of what we need or are looking for, I think we see what's happening now. And when we compare the budgets, the last budgets of 2015 and today's budgets are talking about although the methodologies are slightly different almost 50 billion kunas more in revenue, of course and expenditures are growing, but some possibilities are more and I think these two governments are getting along a little bit, especially this finance minister they were also trying to replace, but I think that ultimately the figures show everything and that the citizens see what's going on. Of course there are dissatisfied, but the state does what it can even though it's expected to be more than a mother or more than a mother, but it just doesn't work sometimes. I think there's a responsibility on us, and I'm all here to make these results better than we've got right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111016	Thank you. Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111017	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. You mentioned how some MPs demean, in fact, everything the government has done this time. They mention that this VAT that's down and it's not something, so you see what inflation is, etc. and what is disastrous about everything is said, and they do not say that what happened with the VAT reduction has actually mitigated the impact of inflation, or that inflation would be much larger and two-digit as it is in the more developed EU countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111018	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111019	Thank you very much, colleague. So I think we've all voted for changes and additions to the VAT Act so that they didn't say whether prices should have been lower, everyone would have liked to have lower prices, especially I don't know some things that really needed to be reduced, they are what they are today. And it's hard with those who sell the i.e. For traders to come to convince him that he should now give up some of his intentions and that we order him to do something in this system or state where we live. I don't think it's up to us to think we should always do the maximum, but in the state it's that that's what you can do. So we went with a five-billion-dollar package to help those who are the weakest to help them out as much as possible, of course you can't pay each bill in full, but... some certain differences yes. Now, it's up to us to keep working on salaries, on pensions, that people really get what they need so they can carry the burden of what happened, and it wasn't just up to us, absolutely. At... a moment nothing about us. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111020	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111021	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'll fight my friend. And despite all of these five years back when we say catastrophic years, everything the government had to do to enable some kind of normal functioning, I can only say that the investments didn't stop and that the real government and all the resolution ministries made an effort to invest in all the municipalities and cities, the counties sort of run normally, they built kindergartens, schools, business zones opened up. So imagine if it wasn't for those crises, everything would have been. Obviously this has to be repeated because the real picture as our colleagues in the opposition say, the situation is really not quite as chaotic as they represent it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111022	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111023	Thank you very much. My fellow Members, I think that we have well absorbed this part of the special local leaders in all order, and I think that today's competitions are going neatly that EU funds that are primarily going to that part and segment of the infrastructure of transport, municipal, social, are really doing well. I think it's worth mentioning what we've last come up with. The last public call that goes with exactly a billion and 200 million kunas towards the rebuilding of the necessary facilities in kindergartens, waiting for us another 800 million kuna. I think everyone can find at least part of their needs in some way, of course they'll have to provide for themselves, but it's important that they want and the possibility that the state gives you. I think the state always creates this space and we understand everyone who criticises us that hospitals don't pay debts, here's two billion to make up for that moment. The medications are over, according to HZZO, it's going over a billion and a half extra. I think it'll do what it can, but it's got a magic wand and it solves everything so everyone's most pleased we won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111024	Thank you. The Honorable Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111025	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague. So surely the state budget can be compared in some way to our family budget, within the family we often have times to look for these or those levels, but whoever is most responsible knows what is possible at that time, which is more important, and I would say that exactly in these times when we are here, as I would never say in the last year and a half threatened by these many threats, that I don't mention them now, but we all know exactly what this is about. However, there is still one social sensitivity, while keeping in mind that the budget, with the best wishes, and I do not often doubt the good intentions and the opposition colleagues themselves, but simply blow up the budget, we will bring ourselves into a situation so that we can eventually make our credit rating less quality than it is right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111026	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111027	Thank you very much. I think that through salary policy or tax policy we have clearly shown what we want, here I will give the data meaning today average salary 2008-2012 plus 495 kuna, 2012-2015 minus 83 I am talking about net average salary, 2016-2022. plus 1.824 kuna, I think this data clearly indicates what we are looking for and what we want. I see that in Zagreb this salary is safe and much higher when we talk about the average salary, not to talk further about what seemed to be a minimum wage. Let's remember 2016. 2,496 kuna, now it's 3,750 after six years it'll probably be bigger in the next year, hopefully we'll find a way to make it happen. And what I want to say first is to thank these people who work at the Ministry of Finance, I think they're doing a good job, they show it's a number of polls, they show it's also the charts on which we climb especially the grades of those who judge us independently about... politics we ourselves or in a different way. That's the way to go. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111028	Now she will speak to a respected representative, Mirela Ahmetovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111029	Dear Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. First of all, I regret that Minister Maric is not present here, although I am even more sorry that there are no other ministers and resolution ministers who are actually doing this rebalancing. Last year when we were making a budget for 2022. I argued that the budget was not realistic, but at that time it was more than 10.8 billion kuna in revenues compared to the last rebalancing in 2021. The expenditures were set at almost the same level at which in 2021 they were shown only half a billion more. And then I claimed and claimed today that such a budget was actually the one that was set because the figures had to be adjusted to meet the Mastric criteria and Croatia's entry into the euro zone. Today we admit that we were right all of us who claimed that the budget was planned for 2022. Unreal. Here we are now raising it in revenue for an additional 6.6 billion kuna, so a total of 16.8 billion kunas more revenue than in 2021. and expenditure of 9.2 billion kuna and 9.7 billion more than in 2021. Tax revenue growth in the first plan for the year '22. compared to '21. of 5.7 billion was justified by GDP growth of 4.4%. Now GDP growth is adjusted to 3% lower, so as much as 1.4 percent lower, and tax revenues continue to rise by an additional 3.18 billion kuna, i.e. now by 8.9 billion kuna compared to '21, and there is no justification for GDP growth, as was our justification when we planned that first budget, so GDP is falling. Let's be honest, the reason for the growth in tax revenues is the inflation that we all know the state's profits. Here Minister Maric and many speakers from the ruling majority explained Russia's inflation of aggression in Ukraine, and we forgot that we were already in September 2021. Warned about a leap in inflation. So we had 2.8 inflation back in December of '21. Inflation reached 5.5% compared to the same month 2020. At the time, Minister Coric laughed at my current question about what the government would do about jumping into actual inflation rates. The Russian invasion of Ukraine began at the end of February, but inflation had already reached 5.7% in January compared to the same month before, at an average annual base of 3.1%. So, Russia's aggression on Ukraine has only pushed the inflationary pressure they warned about and who saw everyone except the government of the Republic of Macedonia, and I remind them once again it was funny, they thought it was funny. As far as expenditure is concerned, when the minister wrote a budget for 2022, the biggest savings were written in health care for about 5 to 6 billion kuna compared to '21. That's when I said he didn't believe in a budget that he had to defend. And I know that the minister may have left now because he's embarrassed because he knows and he knew and then I was and I'm right. The worst part is that Minister Beros and other prime ministers of the government of the Republic of Croatia, so these other resolution ministers actually did it to make Minister Maric uncomfortable. Since the promised reform, especially in health and health care, health debts towards wholesales and pharmacies are growing 400 to 500 million kuna per month, and if the reason for this were more accessible, more accessible, a better quality service then I would somehow understand that incurring with a few billion. But no, we saw what Berosh thinks of the availability of health services on this tragic case of Mrs. Chawide. But you know what's missing? I miss that show that Maric likes to realize and tell Beros, but this time I'm still digging holes, and you can't do any more reform. Here's the last five months, so there's no anger, even Maric admits okay now, let's not get mad because there's nothing left to represent as some kind of anger but I'm going to patch that hole up because I have to. And the energy not to forget. Gas security is planned with a symbolic 75 million kuna, of course they only opened an item because it will all go through HEP. I remind and warn the minister that he has already provided guarantees to HEP of 2.5 billion kuna for the provision of liquidity because HEP paid Russian gas to a private company in advance of the contract. Will Minister Maric defend himself for not knowing?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111030	The Republic has a respected representative named Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111031	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, so you were actually talking about a real, real picture of the health budget, so it seems to me that yesterday on the Finance Committee is up to one sentence when he did it. Tica, an external member of the Committee on Finance, asked the minister about, precisely around this part of the health costs, if the minister had actually said one moment of truth again, you would have put it in other words, it proved through this replica that he expected reform from counterpart Berosa if he had expected reform from counterpart Beros. What my colleague Beros announced was that this reform is already at the prime minister's table, standing there in the Prime Minister's drawer, and today he is not here to answer us, to tell us clearly what's going on. Are we not asking anyone... Instead of telling us what's going on and why it's 500 million dollars in debt today if there's no Covid, and during Covid, there was 200 million in debt at the monthly level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just to get some answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111032	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111033	Dear MP, and would not even believe that Minister Maric expected Minister Berosa's reform, he simply had to save somewhere when planning a 2022 budget to meet those figures that require conditions of entry into the eurozone. And the only place in health care was to show that the debts would be lower and that it would be justified by the expected reform. However, what is today is that already now, there are already 3 billion kunas missing for healthcare that are not shown in this budget, and Minister Maric knows very well that during the next one, the first one of the next budget rebalances must be installed by the additional 3 billion kunas. So, what bothers me, of course Minister Maric will simply figure out the figures as the resolution ministers tell him, and now they're hiding, so there's not one in sight because they're not doing anything. In fact, they are looking at where they will go to another position as Minister Ćoric went, or that Minister Ćoric will go, but what bothers me so let's not lie to the Croatian public. So there's still 3 billion kuna in health care, so write 3 billion kunas in health care, and write 3 billion kunas. write that deficit. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111034	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111035	Thank you very much. This rebalance goes into one category already seen. The Commission for Fiscal Policy more or less every time that the same recommendations, health reform, reform of the pension system, none of this is happening. How realistic it is to expect, in these last two years, that any of this will be, in my opinion, a very optimistic version. But what's a little bit of a concern is that the level of public debt, but in the nominal amount that is growing rapidly and which this year needs to rise by 16 billion, last year has increased by 13 billion and has been accelerating since 2019. So that's something that everyone should be wondering where that border is, how long it's gonna go like that because it's the duties that someone's gonna have to pay back, our kids, our grandkids. Do we even have the right to leave them so much debt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111036	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111037	Yes, thank you very much, so here we have heard countless times in the debates that it is good for our incomes to grow. I'm still surprised that someone is so easily relying on tourism revenues and constantly on personal consumption revenues even though we're doing well for now. But what's sad is that compared to the growth of income, it grows rapidly and costs. And it is not those expenditures that allow for a better quality, better quality and better life for our citizens but the expenditures that serve to patch up budget gaps that are due to the lack of reforms. And you've made a good conclusion, so what's actually sad is that nobody's looking back on the fact that these reforms don't exist. No one looks back to the fact that nothing has changed in health care. So, that debt to large drugstores and pharmacies, the actual debt is the same as it was a year before we talked about budget rebalancing for 2021. So nothing moves, public debt grows, how much longer will it grow It's only a matter of time until it cracks. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111038	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111039	Dear MPs, therefore, the energy intensive industry certainly needs new subsidies. So we know that gas subsidies have been given, but for electricity that has increased three times and subsidies have lagged. Do you think with new electricity subsidies, we can encourage that industry to stay alive?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111040	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111041	Thank you very much. That is, while some of the HDZ deputies here have debated in the direction that we have criticised the measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I must remind them that we have not criticised them because these measures are in large part equal to those proposed by the SDP, even the amount of measures has coincided with around 5 billion kuna. What is missing is, in fact, the incentive to help entrepreneurs, or the economy in particular, with regard to these energy problems. What is interesting to me in the budget or budget rebalancing is that I foresee a reduction of deficits in local self-government units that are as much as the economy and households under pressure from energy growth, energy cost growth, under the pressure of labour costs, so projects that are realised and I don't understand who it is and based on which I calculated that units of local self-government will reduce their deficits.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111042	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111043	Thank you very much. You spoke to counterpart Ahmetovic about the meaning of the Ministry of Finance setting up certain situations and not showing the costs and actually giving false budgets because then the budget rebalancing, etc. Here you are, as head of local self-government in Omislje in 2020, having two rebalancings in 2021, is this evidence that you are also setting certain results so that at the amount of 35 million kuna and here at 170 we compare? I don't think anybody does, so we've really been through two years that have been burdened with pandemics and suspenses like this one right now. I don't know what's waiting for us in the tourist season, do you know? I think there are good announcements. What's gonna happen, I don't know, what's gonna happen in a month. I think saying so is not right about people who really care that this system works and that it is transparent and that you see everything that needs to be seen in it regardless of what we are politically speaking here. So you wouldn't give it lightly if someone were deliberately hiding something, so they'd show at the end of the year. I think the results and the results and the performances show that the results are much better even for what we project ourselves and we vote here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111044	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111045	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Boric. I'm so glad you said this, remember you were present when I discussed the budget plan for '22. And I told Minister Maric and you that I'm sure you don't even know what you're discussing or how much the budget is, so you remember that comment I made. Remember also in a few months when we talk about the second budget rebalancing and when we will raise expenditures in health care because they are not shown today in an additional amount of 3 billion kunas, so the debts of wholesale drugs and pharmacies. As far as my budget rebalances are concerned, and I'm very glad that you mentioned it, you see, unlike the state you compare me with, thank you very much, in my local self-government unit, there's not a single one, no one swears, no debt, no unpaid bills, and my rebalancings are always higher because of higher incomes, not because of the higher incomes, and not because I have to pick up someone else's money. Especially your own holes. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111046	Thank you. Honorable representative, please not from the bench, respected representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111047	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Ahmetovic. When we're talking about how you're talking about how you're hairing books to say no, but I think that's not some unusual practice, but the point is that it would be fairer politically then say, you know what people are like and that kind of thing, we have a euro that's kind of our goal, we had a crisis, we had a pandemic, you know what health reform just won't work. It won't go now, we'll see what happens from the other two years or the last year, if we succeed, but it's much more important simply that we realize that some of the goals that we had at the beginning of the mandate when we put this budget together and we proposed simply we won't be able to realize it, whether we can get some kind of support for it or not. So, but it's not happening and it's their huge problem. So they're like folk open to criticism, but actually every criticism they refuse and that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111048	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111049	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So look here neither I nor anyone else before me has actually slowed down the simple duty of Minister Maric and the situation in which he was put in that he has to free up the data or he has to find a way to patch up other people's holes, we're talking about the holes of resolution ministers who are in charge of the resolutions for which some reforms have to be carried out in order for their resolutions to function more effectively, of course at a minimum cost. What's problematic is that none of them, as we can see, have anything to show or say. It's not just health care, it's public administration, there's no public administration reform. It is said that in the public sector, 4% is paid, and we welcome it, although it should be raised, but the productivity of the public administration or the public sector has not risen. And why didn't she get up? Because there is no public sector reform. Here's to not just staying in health care, and health care is the biggest polygon actually the ability to display savings and then later patch holes because no one's going to say Don't give health care. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111050	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111051	My colleagues Ahmetovic and through debates on LNG and in a number of other topics, you have discussed Croatia's energy policy a great deal. What I think we can agree is that we do not have energy policy and that we are in a situation where our oil goes to Hungary and then Orban returns it to us and resells it, and in Hungary, ohohoho prices are lower than the fuel prices that are a very important item in these purchases in Croatia. What do you think on the other hand about pension funds and government kickings watching what happens to Forten mainly with that part of Forten's agricultural business in Slavonia where it turns out that Croatia has no interest in it, that we have no interest in being self-sufficient in agricultural production but turns out to be allowed to take over Hungarians as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111052	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111053	The country's independence is based on three pillars, which is an energy, food and banking pillar, I would say a financial pillar. In all three areas, Croatia has shown that it is not independent. Unfortunately, the energy sector has long been handed over to the Hungarians, you have made a good point, of course our crude oil based on a secret agreement signed by Minister Ćoric, so today former thanks to Minister Ćoric is committed to the Hungarian refineries to work, and ours is being shut down and to make Hungarians cheaper in the rest and drive. As far as the food sector is concerned, you've seen Hungarians have managed to surround our food sector, occupy even agricultural space, it's a concrete area of the Republic of Croatia, and here they are slowly entering the banking sector, you will see that in a year we will also talk about the domination of Hungarian capital in banking.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111054	Thank you. The next one will speak to the respected representative Vesna Vucilovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111055	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Already eminent economic experts say that inflation has taken control and we are slowly entering that inflation spiral which is not good at all because we have a new element, which is these inflationary expectations, price hikes to make extra profits, and at that all raise prices, so let's go and then we also actually have state-owned companies that are raising prices, and then the state should help those who are socially at risk and we start slowly spinning in this vicious circle of price and social transfers that are in the conditions of inflation growth extremely dangerous. There is still room for certain new elements to be introduced on this income thing. So Croatia is from a tax on property that, which cannot be proved to be the origin of origin, is harvested in the 5th year. less than you collect in a month from the penalty for traffic violations. Now, I would very much like to say that the IRS is so thorough about combing the origin of the property and charging 60% of the tax on that property that cannot be proven to be of origin, as it combs those who are cobwebs, who have moved on with their belly after bread, etc., but unfortunately, we don't see too much of it right now because these 35 million kunas are as charged in the 5th year. is indeed a minor item. In this individual debate, it would also refer to a few specific items. In particular, in the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, we have long heard about the Renaissance of the Croatian Railways and will reportedly be transported to the 21st century by our railway station from the time of Austro-Hungarian. But if it is judged by this rebalancing, that renaissance will last about how long that real Renaissance lasted, and it lasted for the whole 15th century, and in 16 it spread to all of Europe because of these 8 years. Definitely won't be enough. And what brings me to this conclusion? So here is a concrete item relating to the reconstruction of the existing and the construction of the second colossium of the shares Hrvatski Leskovac-Karlovac is again reduced by 200 million kuna, otherwise it is funded by European funds, but something is wrong, it seems to me that the public procurement has been cancelled again. The same item in the budget relating to co-financing of the production of study and project documentation is also reduced. Construction and reconstruction of the railway Long Village-Križevci is perhaps the best example of what it looks like in Croatia because in this case we are not even able to spend the money Europe literally gives us and now the last deadline of completion of the works has been moved to the middle of 2023. which is 3.5.g. After the deadline, but that deadline is also under question and the question is whether it will be respected, and if it is not respected, then we will have to finance it again together from the state budget because Europe somehow does not like it when we break those deadlines and do not respect them. It's just that it took more than a year to get a location permit for that stock, so it turns out that the state is blocking itself and it's no wonder that we have, that we have to beg for certain deadlines to be extended to the European Commission. The shares also mean Hrvatski Leskovac-Karlovac 44 km long, the tender is announced on September 7, 2020, more than a year and a half ago, due to complaints is being re-longed, due to complaints we will obviously not spend this money, and ultimately the price of the increase, estimated value of the works of two billion kunas every day, and then we must really ask ourselves whether these figures are what they really are or we can expect some more items since we are not able and we are not able to spend this European money literally given to us within the deadlines set.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111056	Thank you. We have a replica of the respected representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111057	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues, I'm extremely glad you've opened the subject of the railroad. The budget is or rebalance of the budget is one unfortunate thing. On the one hand, you can also talk through public space about the renaissance of railways and about the need and the importance of railways, and we can also talk about how important it is, how important it is, how important some other countries are, how important it is for Croatia to engage in some other streams and then come into the budget and see the figures and then you really see that we don't count for decades or 10 years. much longer. And that's what actually on one side of the depression, that's who in that joke woman do you trust more with your eyes or my words and often when we get the law, I was one of those who's a big fan of railroads and I think that might be a big step but then when you get to the budget or the rebalancing then you see there's no hope.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111058	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111059	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrak Taritaš I am also a big fan of railways and I live in Slavonia and Baranja who is really crying out for the reconstruction of the railway track and then somehow always pay a little more attention to those items and I am always disappointed again and again. The team is more really unclear why this is happening, why it takes so long and when you read the explanation of HH Infrastructure why some money didn't spend, so they say there was a crown so they couldn't. So in that same crown, in that same epidemic, construction works and this entire sector has registered growth only HZ Infrastructure was unable to work on fresh air outside and spend the money Europe really gives us because it is part of that green plan and what is climate-friendly. But why so, there should be Minister Butkovic there to give us those answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111060	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111061	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My dear representative of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, I will focus on health care. Let me remind you first that Prime Minister Plenkovic when we discussed the 2022 budget. 1.12 said, I quote, when I asked him if, in response to his replica, he said, when it comes to reforming the health system Minister Beros has the task of ensuring the self-sufficiency of the public health budget, the means available to cover the costs of effective care for the health of citizens, which means the availability and quality and optimal application of limited resources and transparency in spending resources and the uniformity of health care standards, completed the quote. And what does that mean? So we're going to cover how much of the debt is, and yet on the other hand, we should, in fact, tell our citizens and all the employees in the health system, which is what's waiting for us, or what's the current situation. Minister Maric then said the key to success and sustainability is on the spending side. And then we had to tell her about the 2022 plan that we should have expenses this year and so it was planned that 6.5 billion kunas were smaller than those in the rebalancing in 2021. This was related to the planned downturn in business expenditure, material expenditure, budget assistance, and then we all wonder together how realistic it is that even the pandemic has not yet ended, we have no reform in sight, and the budget is actually planned, assuming that there will be no such costs in terms of the health system or support system for employees and entrepreneurs. And then what numbers we had or what we had. So, for the Ministry of Health, 6.4 billion kunas were planned in relation to rebalancing at 2022, and now with this rebalancing we have a return plus 4.3 billion kuna. So it wasn't enough. Then HZZO total income, it was reduced by 2 billion kuna this year, and now they saw that it wasn't enough, so there's plus 2.5 billion kuna, of which one billion from the contribution of 1.5 billion from the state budget, and HZZO total expenditures were cut by 2.4 million kuna, but now increased by 1 billion kuna. So it's a bad plan. For health care, therefore, 3.5 billion kuna is foreseen and 2 billion kuna for the debt of large-scale drugs and this 1.5 billion kuna for HZZO. The data, however, is what the majors have already said in recent months that it should pay 3.8 billion kuna to stabilise as much as possible. Now there's two billion kuna planned, so we're wondering how it's gonna go? I didn’t receive a long hospital, a fresher than 30.4. I didn’t even get on the board today, so from 30.4. for hospitals 4 billion kuna, and 1.5 billion dollars for pharmacies, respectively, totaled 2.1 billion kuna. And say total health debts totalled 2.9 billion kuna. And let's remember the 2021 health care year 32 billion kuna plus what 41 billion kunas were added. So then we're wondering how we're going to go on and when we're actually going to finally plan the budget? And now that we're going to look at the details of the HZZO budget, of course, the funds are now increased for primary health care, prescription medications, hospital health care, specialist consular, especially expensive medicines. It was known that for the last year, it was 2.5 billion kuna and that the constant cost of growth was planned, but 2 billion 300 were planned and, of course, now, 200 million kuna is fortunate to be that 2.5 billion kuna. And for the rest of the health care, the treatment of ino-osguarantee, the administration of compulsory health insurance. However, what I do not like personally is that as health workers, means orthopaedic devices and helped others do the same. I have to remind again that HZZO is saving by banging patients in the pocket, so then it reduces the number of strips to anyone who doesn't have an injectable insulin therapy without asking all the professional societies. Then the information of the health system remains the same and should seek to increase information. Then for health tourism the same means, and yet we would seek to strengthen health tourism. Another item of the eye has really been going on for a year and a half, I've been working really hard, and I finally caught this one not that I caught but they gave me finally valid data, these are health interns, and I'm going to ask it with an amendment to take on those certain items that I finally got today the data to succeed. provide funds. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111062	We have a replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111063	I've spoken here several times in my free speeches and in the name of the club about health problems. And it's not just debts to large-scale drugs, it's also debts to hospitals and HZZOs and debts made to other suppliers. However, no one has responded to this, nor is it responding to it now, and it is not taken into account. When we talked about last year that it was too little planned for health care in the budget everyone said it was okay, especially ruling the budget was ideal, wonderful and wonderful. However, our hospitals are still in debt, our hospitals are hard to operate, I can't provide all the services our patients need. You're coming from the hospital in Čakovec do you know how long your hospital is right now and how much it's holding it back and causing problems for your work?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111064	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111065	So most of our county general hospitals are really barely clothed because most of the budget limit goes to pay so I know the information that out of the 158 million kunas that went to last year 1050 million kunas went to pay. For the drugs I don't have, I know it was at the end of the year, since I'm a councilwoman in the county assembly I know it was 31.12. 15 million kunas total debt for drugs, and for these blood derivatives, materials, 16 million kunas. Now, as much as there's still some money coming to the rescue, I don't know, I'm saying I know that information about 31.12.200, and all together, because you don't have enough resources, you don't get what you're actually providing the patient with, so that's what the bigotry of the health system that you and I are talking about, and in fact we're all talking about. I think the debts are now about 77 million kuna, and they were 2020. 72 million So it's not a good situation. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111066	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111067	Dear colleagues. Actually, it seems to me that I always see myself in a circle with these budgets and budget rebalances, and we come up with the fact that we spend the most on health care we feel like we're getting into a black hole. The minister comes in here mad at the other minister, he also says we need to make a reform, I mean, what's the way out of this or did we fall into some amazing story? I mean, do we need a new minister, a new government, or do we have some unaccounted for solutions that we can run now to actually get out of this vicious circle? I can't believe what we're having all these discussions, like we all know what to do, and why we don't, I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111068	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111069	We all know what to do, but it's not being implemented, and the one that's currently running is the government and the current minister, and then you figure it out yourself. So we don't expect a complete reform of the health system to be made in the next two months, but some settings must already be visible and presented. We on the Health Committee are not able to get all the data, as you would now be discussing no. So who's going to argue? So what you're saying is we're always spinning up a little bit, a little bit of anticipating some resources, and then we rebalance it up, and then we cut it down for the next year, and then we rebalance it again. I mean, now I don't know how many, 29 rehabs or how many, so it takes a meaningful policy that's obviously not being implemented at the moment, and we've been giving solutions and we're always talking about certain items, so we're not being listened to from the opposition, and neither is the professional association, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111070	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Urša Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111071	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Since the defence of the amendment in this assembly has become a mere formality because one or no representative or representative of the ruling majority who already has predetermined that they will vote against all amendments to the opposition regardless of the content, I will take advantage of this possibility and will now explain one of our amendments to the budget rebalancing. So within the position of A565010 Programmes for the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Heritage, we propose to open a new item of restoration of Croatian classic feature films on the cellolide strip of 15 million kuna with the following explanation. If it continues at the rate of two films a year, we will surely experience the complete destruction of valuable Croatian film heritage. We are witnessing the public appeals of Croatian film authors for years from Krsta Papić just before his death to Rajko Grlic this fall without a clear response from the ruling in terms of concrete action of acceleration and expansion of the parts for restoration. An emergency restoration is needed so that the restored films can be digitized. It should be stressed that all the countries in the environment, the EU countries at all, have not spoken, restored and protected their film fund, only Croatia has not. It's high time for immediate access to restoration so we don't lose our valuable film heritage. Now, about this burning problem and cultural... I've spoken many times in free speech, unfortunately there's no echo. I hope and believe that all of us therefore and the ruling and opposition should care about Croatian film heritage as well as the entire heritage. I don't see any possibility of sharing on the right or on the left, the only thing that is normal, and I would say with honor that we stand up for the Croatian heritage in this particular case for Croatian film heritage. I no longer know how and how to explain that this heritage will simply disappear, irrevocably disappear. The chemical processes are inexorable and will be erased by Fabian Šovagovic, Relja Bašić, Ana Karic, Bozidarko Frajt, Ivica Vidovic, Mustafa Nadarević, Boris Dvornik will disappear forever the works of Branko Bauer, Vatroslav Mimica, Zvonimir Berkovic, Lordan Zafranovic, Nikola Tanhofer, I do not know Kresa Golik. So are we really so irresponsible all of us here or are we really so uninterested in culture that we will allow it, all of us, all of us, and the ruling and opposition headed by the Minister of Culture Nina Obulen Koržinek? We will all be responsible and guilty of this outrageous culture. Rajko Grlic also published a third letter to the culture minister reminding her that during the preface of the National Programme for Promotion of Audiovisual Creation in 2017 and 2021 she signed this, special attention in the coming period should be paid to the preservation of restoration, digitalisation, availability and promotion of Croatian audiovisual heritage as an extremely valuable cultural heritage and an unforgiving segment of Croatian cultural identity. In those 4 years. Only 8 films were digitized and restored in Croatia, 32 were restored in Skopje during the time, 28 in Serbia, and each of these films had its premiere to celebrate a new life. Since the first Grlic's letter, seven months have passed, during which time not one centimeter of films has been restored, not one. Minister Obuljen Koržinek can't hear us, so please Minister Marić, I really ask you to adopt our amendment to save Croatian classical film, time passes, chemical processes do their part and soon believe me there will be nothing to restore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111072	He has one replica of the respected Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111073	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Raukar, that it is completely unclear actually why is it despite repeated insistence and warnings on this side of the assembly why is it not put some priority on this matter? I think Minister Maric, you can ask him to accept the amendment, but ultimately Minister Oblisen Koržinek should make a decision about it, so I wouldn't put excessive hopes into it, but of course let's stay this one open for surprises, it would be really nice, because as you said what you're talking about is not a question of some political world-classer at all, let's say, it's a matter of relation to some kind of heritage that isn't, which shouldn't be the subject of a prior rejection just because it comes from another assembly, and it's not so expensive sport in view of the budget of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111074	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111075	Yeah, I don't know, I don't know what, I don't know what to explain and I don't know how to explain it, I don't know how to explain it, I don't know what to do, I don't even care, I don't know if you understand that Croatian film heritage is really going to disappear, gone, I don't know, tell me, teach me who to go to, who to ask, what to do, so I don't know if you can imagine that Tin Ujević's songs are gone, there are no more, Vidovic pictures gone, so it's our people's movie, so there's no right and left, so I don't know, I't speak out of despair, that and maybe I'm funny to you. But please all do something together, make sure that Croatian classic film doesn't disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111076	Next individual debate respected Ivana Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111077	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ministers, assistants, MPs. I haven't been in the assembly very long, but I quickly caught some persistent practices that repeat at least three times a year and concern, of course, the eternal question of how much health costs us. We're always looking at the same play, firstly to bring in an unreal budget, this is the last one that decreases last year by as many as 6.4 billion kunas without argument because the reform is not in sight, supported only by unfounded unrealistic optimism and then squeezes and drastically deepens the health budget on the first one. The same scenario awaits us for sure in the next rebalancing, the opposition all day long calls for reason, rationality, reform, alleged reform calls for and Minister Maric, reportedly for the cheerleading reform and Prime Minister Plenkovic, reportedly has a ready-made minister, Beros, but there is no reform. So, how come, where does that leak our money and why is there no reform? I suggest we have some fun with an example from which things might become a little bit clearer. In the past 14 years. HZZO paid more than a billion kuna by decision of the Ministry of Health to the private Poliklinium Medikol. The vast majority of these amounts refer to PET/CT tests, therefore incredibly important tests in the diagnostics and treatment of cancer diseases. It's important to say that it's been in those last 14 years. in which we have cashed out a billion kunas of only one PET/CT device, of course not during any HDZ government, but during the SDP government on the Rebr. The other 4 devices that exist in Croatia are Medikola. Let's not stay on abstract level, the owner of the Medikol, to remind ourselves who they are, are spouses from Čakovec, Mrs. Ivanka Trstenjak Rajković Doctor of General Practice and her husband Ivan Trstenjak, former taxi driver and caterer, completely unknown and narrow medical circles, let alone wider, together with their newly established clinic in 2007 sign a contract of hundreds of millions of kuna, a fully monopoly contract that allows them the Sanader government and then Minister Neven Ljubicic. At the same time, doctors from KBC are looking for a minister to buy PET/CT, but the minister says they can ask for anything just so they can't ask for PET/CT. 2011 for the first time begins writing about the Medikol affair and the monopoly that the government has made possible the private polyclinic which Croatian citizens so luxuriously reward. Slavica Lukic, at a press conference held by then Minister Milinovic, we are in the health care room with ministers and HZZO chief Strezrep, asks why the data on how much the state pays Medikol, does not get an answer, but 10 minutes after she is invited to the cabinet ministers to talk where Minister Milinović, HZZO head Strizrep and KBC chief, our knight Reiner, who is unfortunately not here. There they explain to her that unfortunately they can't publish the amounts the state pays off to Medikol because that's the secret information. We're talking hundreds of millions of public money from Croatian citizens. Today, we know because HZZO still had to provide data that in 2010 and 2011, when I talk about these affairs, the Medikol was paid in just 2 years 220 million kuna, 220 reasons for silence. Right? After the arrival of the SDP to the authorities and purchases of a PET/CT device, the amount to be paid to the Medici is clearly reduced from year to year, but in vain because in 2016 HDZ comes to power again and guess what happens. The amount grows again by some miracle. So, Kujundzic, another of our impressive health ministers announced in late 2019 the purchase of 4 PET/CT devices that would fully meet our needs and cost you a guess of how many 60 million kunas. 60 million kunas to meet all needs of Croatian citizens, a billion kunas we have paid for this service to Medikol. However, Kujundzic's deadline is running out, he is being squeezed by affairs, Beroš is coming, while Medikol is getting new devices that I find it difficult to assume that they would enter such an investment without being aware that they will continue to do business with the state. Since Minister Berosha received almost 160 million kunas from us, it has been announced that it continues to grow, about PET/CT gets no letters. That's how money is spent when rebalancing into HZZO. In the long run, we can only conclude that neither a representative nor a saleswoman, nor a worker, nor a housewife will be healthy. So what do we do now, Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111078	The first replica, respected Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111079	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, it is good that you reminded yourself of all these horrors and these affairs that we hear from day to day specifically and of the purchases of PET/CT devices, so the Medikol owners are from Čakovec, but I am really ashamed of this situation, but people are using clearly what they give them, so it is obviously not only on them, but actually more on ministers that make it possible. Of course, there are these affairs that we've been following about the intra-operal radiation device, and things like that should be talked about even if the minister and the ministry aren't wrong about it, so let him say who's to blame. And some people who have dirtyed up about this overpaid device, let's say, specifically for the intraoperative radiation we've been reading about, let them match. The item that may make you happy but won't save us is an increase in the amount of treatment according to the special regulations of the psychiatric hospital. It's probably like a psychiatrist was seen in the budget, but with this we're listening to everything and what we're witnessing from day to day I don't think that's gonna happen to us either. how to cheer up. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111080	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111081	Thank you. Thank you for your comment. Yeah, I mean how do I say it's a drop in the sea and still doesn't change the paradigm we're running here. I think that ultimately responsibility always goes to the minister regardless of why he is in charge and responsible, and here we see that there is one multi-year practice of the ministry where it is I will remind you when there is a recent question about this, about this cooperation, so to speak between the Medikol and the state, has received a reply from the Ministry of Health that all advanced states have so used public private partnerships to provide the best possible service to their citizens. I will repeat, the billion kuna of Medikol, 60 million kuna of four PET/CT devices that are enough with this one on Rebra which, I repeat, he did not get HDZ to meet all needs of cancer patients in Croatia, 20 times the difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111082	The next replica honors Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111083	Here, esteemed fellow I cannot believe that you insinuate that some corruption actually makes you leak money in health care. It's absolutely not to believe. Here's hoping the Resort Minister heard you, so where that money leaks, so he'll keep on yelling at others, so he can't do it anymore, right? That's enough of that. I really hope so. And just to tell you that public private partnerships are not the same as corruption in the normal world. So if we have some private institutions with which we contract some services does not mean that they are automatically corrupt it seems only in Croatia this means. But here I wanted to, I was reminded by my colleague Marić of one story, so we spend so much money on health care, and the fact is that from Dubrovnik to Zagreb, from Privlaka to Zagreb, you don't have a bed for children and adolescents with psychological difficulties, so In the hospital there is no bed for those children they have to share rooms with adults, just that... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111084	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111085	Thank you. Thank you for your comment. Of course I agree that the general public does not mean the example of the Medikol and the state. However, I would say that it is not so and generally in Croatia because we can see that there are others, other practices, but that is generally how HDZ sees publicly and privately. So, where it is publicly used for private and particular interests. That's right. As far as child psychiatry is concerned, there is a state of despair, but I would remind you that the state is not, nor is there any institution in which, therefore, they are hospitalized and treated by children in their own, that they are, that they are founders. So, not from Prevlaka to Zagreb nor from Ilok to Zagreb, so they literally have none, there is one in which is the founder of the City of Zagreb and that is it. We care so much about the mental health of children and young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111086	The next replica of the respected Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111087	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, in your debate, of course you touched health care and, of course, you touched the subject of Medikol, which somehow remained under the radar. You know, somehow underneath the radar, there's some issues left behind with all these upcoming affairs, and then somehow these people get used to it. So our people get used to things. Two things I wanted to react to, one thing is so you didn't exactly celebrate with Minister Resort, I feel like you're choosing them by the criteria that will be worse than the last one, but that's another story. And I get the feeling often when we're here discussing what the budget is, what the rebalance is when it comes to health care like in that movie infinite day, so we can't wake up from all that. It's a good thing you've opened the story of Medikol and it's good to ask yourself, so I have nothing against public private partnerships, I have nothing to do with certain services still being provided, but how are they and how exactly? For that amount and compare the amount is very interesting. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111088	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111089	Yes, I agree definitely on the fact that in the sea of affairs it's just hard to follow them all and it's hard for everyone to pay attention. I also agree that it's at least my impression, I always thought it might be someone because I'm in health care, but really when it comes to our resolution ministers, I get the feeling that we always get the shortest straw that's said. As for the Medikol or the public-private so, okay, if we're talking about outsoring, but if it's functional and it's not going to harm the citizens, then the key would be that we're still thinking about it being public money, and it's completely avoided here, and as we can see, it's not been avoided by mistake, but we're talking about something that's been going on since 2007. He's been constantly trying to hide the click of the money ever since 2007. He's been going to the company in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111090	Next line of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111091	Thank you very much. Comrade Kekin mentions a billion kunas to Medikol or I don't know who, mentioning 60 million kunas would be necessary for certain devices of this diagnostic or I don't know what you mentioned to solve the health problem in this matter. Now imagine when you from Zagreb speak so that you have much better health services than in the rural areas of our Croatia. In the Dalmatian Zagora, women waited six months for enrolment on the ultrasound of the breast, I'm talking about the ultrasound and one of them being enrolled, and if they enrolled, then they don't sign up again for six months, so some of the dead have never been examined. And speaking of which, it well knows Ante Sanader it's their county that they made out of health, it's a public private partnership of HDZ and the health ministry destroyed everything. Better unfortunately in Yugoslavia then, now the word Sanader Miro is a Yugoslav, destroyed everything, exclusively through his party comrades to the ground There's no such thing as health care. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111092	Yes, thank you for your comment. I'd like to think I'm just trying to figure out, I don't know how many doctors are here, so PTC serves that when you have a patient to see in detail and precisely where his metastases are, so it's really a diagnostic device that saves lives literally because it's a radical revolution in the treatment of malignant diseases, it's incredibly important. And of course that Croatian citizens who are unfortunately in this kind of trouble I think if HZZO pays the Medikol and they go to Mediklo, is it important, no, and where, just so we understand each other for the last five, six years, I don't know how sure it is in medical circles that these devices in Medikol are out of date and that they're no longer working properly, and we're cashing out this huge money, and we need 60 million for four new ones. We're talking again, about people who have cancer. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111093	Next individual debate, respected William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111094	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In its debate on this first budget rebalancing this year, the conditions are already too clearly galloping inflation not only in our country but also in the number of countries in Europe and in the two-digit numbers in the hope that we are not in front of a famous inflation glare that has been announced for some time by a major financial expert, but also by a gambler on the world stock exchanges by Ray Dalio, who claims that every hundred years and that this inflation can now be terrible. Now, in that case, if the European Central Bank is going to save us, we'll be able to just watch. I don't want to get into it right now, I just want to comment on some things about this first rebalancing this year, and that's the question of the Ministry of Culture and Media on two different programs. First, I will say something about the Programme to improve the availability of cultural content to people with disabilities. In fact, in the budget that was adopted at the end of last year in the Programme to improve the availability of cultural content to disabled persons, a single item appeared, which increased by 144 million 287 thousand and something like that, somewhere in terms of a million and a half, and then somewhere there was a million and 743 thousand. I now have no option here to ask the Minister of Culture how it happened, that is, under the paragraph of the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism, which was imagined here. But now I see in this rebalancing that the 144 million 287 thousand were simply taken down. I guess, to see people have much more important, I understand, I ask for 144 million understand among the billions that and it may be a small number but within culture it was a programme to improve the availability of cultural content to people with disabilities and it was last year and now it's all taken down. We don't have anyone to ask for an explanation, maybe in the final, if you can find a way to explain it to us, I really believed it would happen. I really believed that would happen. Otherwise, it's significantly smaller money and it's money that's usually derived from gambling. Second program, now this will not keep you... The second one I want to comment on is the issue of a programme to encourage quality journalism, which the truth in this rebalancing has increased. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's increased because simply the roles of what we get from gambling are greater. This programme of promoting quality journalism is now the third year in a row and I just want to say that actually this program is great and if you would make it just like this topics, these are topics from culture, health, local topics, ecumenism and religion, human rights, the position of women in society, topics of interest for minorities in society, children, young people, education etc. What encourages these specific objectives that are being encouraged is to be achieved through this project. They refer to the additional involvement of journalists, journalists, deep research on issues of public interest, strengthening critical capacity, social impact, or above all to electronic publications. I say I want to commend it, but I also need to say that now that journalists have received annual awards, Boris Dežulovic said he just came from a trial in Split, and he came to Zagreb first of all for the trial he received the next day for the award ceremony was. And that everything that's been funded here, unfortunately, you won't find on HTV where there are great journalists, but there's no editor-in-chief of the program that doesn't allow these things to happen on HTV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111095	We have one replica, the esteemed Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111096	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Matul and I got caught in the eyes of this item that you mentioned was reduced. I was just reading the documents and I noticed it. I sincerely hope we hear some sort of explanation, but in fact it should be heard by Minister Obuljen rather than by Minister Maric. They only get a statement from the ministry that they should roll, in which way they will slip into the given frameworks. But that's unusual to cut the item, to zero. So for one thing, it's very, very strange. So I appreciate you pointing that out in your debate, so I won't have to do mine now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111097	Thank you, colleague Glavasevic. If it were simply not clear to me, it can be imagined that in Croatia as regards cultural institutions, access to cultural centres, homes for culture that this money of 144 million and 287 000 kuna would be welcome to improve the availability of cultural facilities for people with disabilities. Of course, in Zagreb you have lots of places where there are not yet the most important ramps have not let down the elevators that would help in this sense, without talking about how cultural content can be adapted to people, blind people, hearing people and many other ways in which cultural content can be adapted to them. But here it is suddenly gone or maybe the rules of that mechanism didn't satisfy it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111098	Next is the individual debate of the respected Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111099	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Each budget and each budget rebalance is at the end of the day a matter of priorities. I don't think I'm going to repeat myself here today and say things that were spoken of on some macroeconomic level or from some macroeconomic perspective by my other colleagues and colleagues from the opposition. I think we've done it enough times. It is clear that regardless of the numerous measures the government has had, inflation is a problem for which no solution has yet been found, as well as a rise in electricity prices. So I'm not going that way. In the direction I want to go, it's actually to look at how the ministers and ministers are, some of them, as long as I have time, have actually lagged out their priorities within the framework that Minister Maric, who is here in a ungrateful situation, is actually having to defend their decisions, the way that they have disputed their priorities. In the Ministry of Defence, I don't know all of Croatia shocked the drone's downfall not so long ago. I am therefore interested in the fact that, for example, the item of the common integrated anti-aircraft defence with NATO has not been changed. So it stands at 15.6 million kuna. Man would expect, in light of the government's statements made by Minister Banozic, the head of the Armed Forces' Chief Staff just to invest in anti-aircraft defence in order to increase security, that this will certainly be one of the items, which will increase the amount. But it's not. So, I remember living when I listened to the Prime Minister when that thing happened how he talked about that item going up. It's not increased, it's left at 15.6 million kuna. I think just for comparison, here I can set out another item for example, just for a second, for example, the item for spiritual care within the Armed Forces is at 10 and a half million kuna. Spiritual care, anti-aircraft defense after the drone fell on Jarun. It's a matter of priority from a colleague and a colleague. It's also convenient we had or awkward, we had the opportunity to listen to our own time about how increased hybrid threats, how many banks' institutions were under cyber attacks. Do you know how much the cybersecurity item is for the Department of Defense specifically? 8.5 million kuna. Spiritual care is 10.5, cyber security 8.5-spiritary Serbs 10.5. I suppose in the Department of Defense a priest is worth four hackers, as in hospitals a priest is worth as few doctors. Let's go a little further. I will not comment particularly on the lack of time, but I was not happy with the fact that there is no change in the amount of 52.6 million kuna for the Three Seas initiative from which we have absolutely nothing left. So, we gave the money from the investment there was nothing. Another thing to support the Croats in Serbia, for example, tomorrow Tomislav Žigmanov will come to the assembly, 2 million kuna is the amount, 2 million kuna is given. In Mostar, major concerns for culture in Croatia in BiH are the amount to support the university and the HNK Mostar has been reduced from 10 to 2 million kuna. And in the end, just one little remark like that. So, I don't want to open the subject of the Concordate with the Vatican or the Holy Table here, it's a very big topic and it's not for 22 seconds that I have left in this debate, but you should know that it's going to take us to provide for 344 million kuna, for the context, for the whole budget, and it's paid for. Okay, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111100	Replica, dear Marian Pavlichek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111101	Dear colleague, here you and I will never agree on the financing of spiritual care. Personally, I believe that spiritual care has contributed greatly to the 1990s in raising morals in the defence of Croatia, and it is difficult to measure it with kunas, it is very difficult to measure it with kunas, but here I will agree with you that we are devoting poorly little financial resources to support the general Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. By decision of the government of half of 3rd month 9 million kuna was allocated for capital projects and seven capital projects of Radio Dux in Montenegro, two projects include the Croatian House in Subotica, the Theatre in Peču and the University of Mostar and the support of the City Croats. 9 million kuna for the nearest countries or Croats in our immediate environment is definitely too little, if it were too little in euro. Here's your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111102	Thank you. No, my colleague Pavlikek, so not to be misunderstood, I have absolutely nothing against the subject of spiritual care, I'm just putting it in relation to some other items that are the Ministry of Defence Cor business, okay, so what's amazing to me is that the item for spiritual care is bigger than the item for cyber security. I mean, with all due respect, what's okay, you need one, you need another, but let's figure out what of those two can measure in kunas. The damage since the cyber attack can certainly be measured in kunas, the damage we could have had not given to God that drone was indeed loaded with explosives could certainly be measured in kunas. And as for Croats outside Croatia, there is one item that is drastically increasing here, that's what's interesting. The item for the Programme for support projects of strategic importance for Croatia outside the Republic of Croatia has been increased from 5 to 28.5 million kuna. How's that money going to split? What exactly does that mean? That's not what it says here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111103	Next replica, you give up. Then thank you very much. Next individual debate honored Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111104	Thank you very much. Dear vice president of HS, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So, there's one thing I always appreciate and I stress, which is that Minister Maric is the Deputy Prime Minister usually with us, obviously because of some of the affairs he leaves, but the main debate is whether the debate is the budget, the budget rebalance, or whether there are some amendments and additions to the laws that are from his portfolio and he's here with us. I hope he's listened to some things, and then he'll react to it. I'm going here very specific and clearly define myself on three things. The first thing health care, so as a responsible parliamentary representative, what did I do? I first went with the conclusion that the resolution ministry should provide 20 million kuna for four interoperable radiotherapy devices for four KBCs, which do not have this in Zagreb, Osijek, Split and Rijeka. Of course my ruling turned it down, there's nothing wrong with that. Then I went through the budget with the amendment to ensure it and explained why it should be ensured because it is something that serves a bunch of women, related to breast cancer, very quickly operationally can actually speed up the whole treatment process. Of course, as the minister said, the generic response was generally rejected. And look at the wonders, all of a sudden, the Deputy Prime Minister's resolute ministry and the finance minister is providing funds for the purchase of a 5 million-dollar device, and the device that was obtained for the Mercy Sisters sees wonders from it otherwise, Minister Beros is also from that facility, 11 million kuna. Everyone knows that two devices could have been obtained for it, and now the key question of the vice president is that two were acquired, so one is somewhere in the reserve, or someone has gotten one that costs 11 million even though it is known to be 5 million. If you're in charge and you're in charge of the budget, then it's no wonder we're going to get to the next generic rebalancing. The second subject I want to make clear is the next one. We went with a requirement to reduce VAT to menstrual supplies from 25 to 5%. There was a late hours of colleagues from HDZ having fun on the subject and not to say a joke, you went through a reduction to 13% and then there was one conclusion that this assembly had made, that by April 28, a menstrual poverty analysis and everything else should be done and that you would do the story further. There's no conclusion, we ended up at 13% even though there was a proposal at the time and I went with the amendment to go to 5%, but some of the opposition has no way. It may have been written in gold letters, then something would have gone away. I'm kind of stubborn, I have different good and bad qualities, and one of my qualities is that I'm persistent. I'm going to ask for a cut from 13 to 5% again and turn me down again, but believe me, we're going to get to my 5%, and I'm going to be interested in how the government did it and how that analysis did it. And the third thing I want to say here is the next thing. Renovate. The restoration is a key word and will be the greatest shame of this government, a restoration that is not there. I very carefully and very closely follow what is happening in the area of Banovina or Banovina and follow closely what is being followed in the area of the City of Zagreb. Even in the area of Bania or Banovina you want to call her something is going on. No matter where people say there are no workers, there's not enough building material. And you and I know that when the construction sector starts that it's a trigger and everything else, it just has to run and it has to be somewhere to buy construction material. But what puts me in this one of yours, or in the rebalancing, absolutely depressed, is the next. The item that says to provide temporary accommodation, so providing temporary accommodation for earthquake affected areas has increased you from 500,000 to 60 million, long we will set these people up. A recovery of damage in the Zagreb City area to that famous fund for which I don't know why you founded You're down 130 million. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111105	Replica, the esteemed Marian Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111106	Dear fellow Minister Maric, I have already said this publicly, personally I think he may be one of the best ministers in the current government, but he is responsible because he can only be a cashier, he is also the prime minister. Do you think he should have introduced order in the sense of introducing so-called steel or iron hand and tell your closest associates, the other ministers are fed up with enough, from health care and beyond. If he can't run the finances if he's just gonna be a cashier, then it's no use, then we turn the hollow into empty, we wait for incomes and expenses. It is important how and how they use reforms. I think with his knowledge and authority, he could have acted much stronger and more agile in terms of spending primarily in certain ministries such as the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111107	Thank you very much and thank you very much for this question. You know that the Deputy Prime Minister, which is why I particularly stressed his status, is also the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. If he had one printing of money, and my colleague knows it when we were in government together, colleague Lalovac, those demands coming from the ministries wouldn't be enough. And if he had a money printing company that'd be printing money any minute, it wouldn't be enough for health care. And we know that, and we know that the problem of health care, we know that education is always a problem, so even when you listen to a few other countries and when they do some kind of budgets or their rebalancing are about the same, but we all know that without serious health reform there is not enough money for health care. So what Minister Maric did when he didn't know he was being recorded or maybe he said, he told the truth, but there's no R since the reform, there won't be any reform, and the question is just how much will be dubiosis. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111108	The next replica, the esteemed Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111109	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I believe that you have studied the budget in a studio way and what's the question today is that no one has actually asked, perhaps, but I'm sorry I haven't heard, many construction companies have asked to be recognized so-called. VTR due to the rise in raw materials prices that they cannot complete the deals they have agreed with both local administration and the central state. And I just don't know if it's recognized through the budget and if you can even see how much that item is in the budget. It means those who are even funded by EU funds. Well, I don't know, maybe here's the question. I don't know if you've looked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111110	Thank you very much for that question. We haven't opened that question at all. We haven't even opened through these rebalancing systems at all, we don't even open it in public space. Therefore, the subject of VTRs or extra-costs and, respectively, prices that are one serious, one serious topic. What I saw in the space, which is a strange, non-resolute minister so often mentioned by Mr Paladin and the Ministry of Civil Engineering, was something that was done by Minister Butkovic and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, because it obviously met on certain works that were. It's a terrible problem and it'll be a problem. So, the problem that we have at this point without an answer is the labour problem that you don't have, the problem of building material that you don't have, so I listen from people who do and who say we can't buy it anywhere because there's no one to buy it and the third problem is those prices that are going to grow in the sky. And the question of who's going to have to do it for the end to bear a certain part of responsibility. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111111	Replica, dear Michelle Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111112	Dear colleagues Mrak Taritas, you know very much about the construction sector and about the restoration of certain areas, so my question for you, reading this rebalancing, and also teaching on the budget, regardless of the fact that we are all full of the mouth of European funds and NGOs, is that even after the change of Minister and new Minister Paladin, you see the light at the end of the tunnel that is called the restoration or we will still have one winter where people in Banija will be in containers, and in Zagreb you will be careful not to hit anything on their heads? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111113	Thank you very much. So everyone passing through the City of Zagreb should make sure that something doesn't hit their heads because the dangers are still great. The figures tell you everything, you know we have, we can speak in nice words, as soon as it's in the budget 60 million to subsidize temporary accommodation it means temporary accommodation will be long. Minister Paladin is one of those, so to be clear, and what I said and when I discussed on behalf of the club, who remembers was once a minister named Darko Horvat, therefore the reconstruction went wrong or did not go wrong, thanks to him the law was set wrong, when something set wrong could not end well. And what happens, trust your eyes, don't trust me, contests, competitions, or no one appears or gives up or because of the price you have to generally do not make a competition and don't do a job.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111114	The next replica is Branka Juričev-Martinchev's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111115	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleagues of Mrak-Taritash just now, you said when there was a discussion on the VAT reduction to the menstrual needs that HDZ colleagues had a laugh. I don't think that's right, that if you're going to remember the debate on behalf of the club, and we've all said that it's something to think about, see and propose to the next package of tax reform, and it really was, we haven't cut the VAT as much as we've proposed, but VAT is almost halved and 50% smaller than it was before. Have you noticed that it may be when it comes to these menstrual needs or oil, fresh meat, fresh fish and other products that have a 25 to 5% VAT reduction that this price is reduced in stores, in stores, and that indeed our citizens are doing much better than if VAT remained and so one of our colleagues was just talking about the practice that is possible in stores.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111116	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111117	My colleagues Juričev-Martinchev, I was at this debate that started at 6 p.m., so until the late evening, they answered all the questions carefully, and first I will answer what you said at the end, which is that, when it comes to menstrual supplies really in certain trade chains and reduced and that is the fact, they are reduced to start under and although often said they will decrease VAT, and they will not be reduced, and the second topic is who, who, who, and how he joked and referred to with the hygiene stakes of lavender, rose and everything else, you can solve it within the club and you don't have to believe me. The day after that, so it was one debate that was expected to go under the radar, I was called by journalists from neighbouring countries, some other countries, and they asked what was going on in the Croatian Parliament that night that the menstrual needs were discussed in this way and gave me the opportunity to say on some television of neighbouring countries what was going on, so ask them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111118	Time. Next is the individual debate of the respected Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111119	I thank Mr. Vice President, once again respected ministers with, no co-workers went a little bit and they rested, let the whole day be there and this one is not easy to sit all day and listen to all the debates this day and that is why we were actually saying that it would be good to see the rest and other colleagues of your ministers here, but I understand that it's not easy for your colleagues to defend today, too, because they don't know if the next rebalancing is going to be there, but can anyone guarantee that any of them will be sitting there at the next rebalancing if we're talking about the Minister of Health, Minister of Economy, the Minister of this to some other ministers, and you know why? Because they're big resistors, they're heavy resistors. Why he's been here for six to seven years. Minister of Finance, right? He was doing reforms, pushing some kind of, uh, some kind of change. Whoever comes instead of the minister and gets scared, it's not easy to eat, it's just that when the whole thing comes that I'm not going to say "haranga," the information just gets under the pressure of the public and all of these reforms just breaks down, and these are now times that will certainly not be easy for any minister in the future. Today it was mentioned here that these 45 billion were given to covid, that it was given to, to finance all the covid needs, and you see how the covid quickly disappeared, because as soon as war conflicts appeared, the covida disappeared, is no longer talking today, no matter how much costs, no matter how much they will be. Today we are also talking about inflation which is a strong pressure on the expenditure side of the budget just as the covid has strongly pressed the expenditure side of the budget and that is what is now a global issue is, so far monetary and fiscal authorities in all EU countries have opted for stimulant, all the time for economic stimulant and monetary authorities and fiscal authorities and therefore were allowed and deficits in all states and monetary authorities through the purchase... or the purchase of bonds to settle, or to offer, the bonds, and it was an incentive that because it was a crisis that was actually in 2014-'15. There was a public debt crisis, because what I was saying earlier today was the public debt crisis, the crisis was in all the countries of southern Europe, just talking about public debt, and then because there was a very high pressure on interest at the time, but now the European Commission has actually turned around, but what was worrying and all the time defending economic growth was now so much of this stimulant was given, and there was a supply disturbance, it happened that inflation was two-digit. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now the question is, what are the measures going on? All the time we're talking about fiscal measures again, we're talking about fiscal measures all the time, but let's not forget that these fiscal measures encourage inflation, encourage inflation and create spirals. So leaving inflation is not as simple as thought and even in theory, and even more difficult in practice because each additionally encourages this consumption, encourages price hikes, etc. It's very good here and this example of VAT, we've always heard it from entrepreneurs just cut the VAT all will be great, everything will be great just let's give 5% of the VAT. It happened that I don't know Ministers you list, I don't think I know how many products now, but it must be over 50 or 100 products per 5%, 100 products we have at 5%. Do Croatian citizens feel that part in their wallet that we pay lower VAT rates? But it was just all the time the speech was just you cut it down and you'll see how the market works, how the market works. What did the market do now? On the contrary, completely the opposite of being run right now, I'm saying this again, and I'm saying what I'm saying with inflation. So you always expect some magic wand from a fiscal government that has always taken a step, which is very quickly impossible to expect, is impossible to expect all realistic expectations. And that's why we mentioned here, the expenditure side of the budget not only in health care, you talked about the arrangement of the pay system, today we're talking about the system not only of the health system, but also of the public business system we're talking about HZ on the Finance Committee, etc., we don't see any progress here that we can say that if we come to times of crisis that we have additional fuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111120	Replica Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111121	Dear fellow Lalovac. You've had a lot of discussion these days about inflation, the first question is, do you think when we take into account price and fuel developments and energy and consumer baskets and everything that's been poured over, whether the government has done enough or simply surrendered to large capital that we can now clearly determine that in many products, the price is artificially pumping. And the second question about health care since you yourself were Minister of Finance is definitely one acidic apple, but is it normal that if we admit that we had fewer other medical interventions in covid that we have a huge eruption of all other costs unrelated to covid, new employment and not medical staff, and that there is simply no will from the minister or government itself, political will that finally someone initiates a clear and effective reform of Croatian health that will not ultimately have to pay the citizens of this country?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111122	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111123	Thank you. Well, there have been several reports here that there are two currents, one is that it speaks of health as on the spending side, and I believe that from the Ministry of Health it comes that this reform must be on the revenue side of the budget. Well, now that we're talking about the revenue side of the budget is okay, they said income, if we're going to introduce real estate tax, so if we're going to introduce tax, the contribution can't go any higher, the contribution is at 16.5%, the entrepreneurs can't take it anymore, so if it opens up here in the assembly that we can go more income on this part, but if we know that health costs have come to 41 billion, the pension costs are 45 billion. I think that never in the history of the Republic of Croatia has such a relationship of health and retirement been, ever.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111124	The next replica honours Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111125	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm a colleague of Lalovec's. I'm glad you mentioned the VAT problem, you know that the government didn't do it itself that it reduced VAT for certain products to make it a big halabuka, a big problem, etc. It is then envisaged that, based on the downturn, the rate is lost in the budget of over 2 billion and 100 million if I remember well. But here it has been shown that in the meantime prices have increased, that the base is higher and that revenue has been made in these three months billion and 800 of VAT. So here's proof that what you said really didn't work in that part of the market, or it only worked partially, and that's what's not good because it pumps further inflation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111126	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111127	I agree that because I say that when we hear all the time from entrepreneurs what the state can do to facilitate business in the first place is actually VAT, in the first place is actually VAT and it is always said that it is one of the key reasons not the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Now that he's at minimum levels, can't he be below 5%, I'm asking if we're more specific now with these prices? We are in Europe, but unfortunately we are not for pockets for Croatian citizens and this has still been shown, so whenever that policy went, just reduce in this part of VAT everything will be resolved in society, it has now been shown that this market attitude towards the state has not responded. And I always like to say that, and when they came looking for support at the ministry in the ranks they sat down to ask for support for covid, for this, for that. When VAT was to be reduced to reflect on prices [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111128	The next replica, respected named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111129	Dear fellow Lalovac. If anyone can put it in Minister Marić's skin, then you can do it, if anyone can read this budget or budget rebalance then you can do it. My question to you, do you see in this budget rebalancing the policy of this government, which will result in a improvement for the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111130	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111131	I didn't hear. A better one for? So look at the part where we're talking about the pension system and we said, I think we agreed, I think that's where we all supported it. [[Intruder: Better for the citizens.]] Because really pensioners in this part of inflation are really the most affected and what we've caused to be reconsidered once again in nine months if inflation is two-digit, especially food costs. The minister said there'd be a bigger indexation. But to think again about the pensioners and if it is before the end of the year, that payment will be made once again. The minister I did not hear here a reluctance, but said he would consider how it would be a full charge and that would depend anyway on the tourist season. The tourist season will actually always give us some kind of greatest, kind of hope that a certain part of the year can calm down. However, time must be challenging so that I would not be your skin ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111132	The next individual debate of the respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111133	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So I haven't asked a colleague before me to try to define what policy this budget is that will contribute to the improvement of Croatian citizens. And as you saw a colleague before me, like his successor actually said something might happen if there's a chance. What do I mean by that? In this budget, budget rebalancing has nothing to show the policy of this government in which it will facilitate the moment of the situation. And why is only the Minister of Finance sitting here today is not clear to me. If he sits as Minister of Finance, then he needs to be congratulated on leading the good accounting of this country. But never accounting is wrong for bad management decisions, and here we face management decisions. On the one hand, we will say that they are bad or that they should have been better; you will cry out that they are excellent; so let the people judge whether the decisions of those who lead us today are good or bad, and how the people judge it shows you how many people are moving out of this land. I've said it several times, and actually when we talk about this rebalancing, then we're really talking about a new budget. And the budget is the government's political statement, where the government's policy is defined which will work in the coming period. I'm here today saying I only see the truth for the will and vice president of the government, but I don't see any other minister whose budgets have been touched. We here today, I was against it on the board then we have a united debate. Why was I against it? Because today we're actually talking about three things here, talking about budgeting for the past year where we should evaluate how well the government has managed in the past year and what it has done with what it has promised, and I'm going to say it has done very little or almost nothing. We should discuss the Law on Budgetary Implementation, the minister only touched it with what little in the sign, which is a law that was usually passed unanimously in the House as it was not very important. This law has changed a few things. This law allows the Government and ministers to be much larger redistributions and much greater circulations within the budget, so we may not even see any rebalancing this year, because through redistributions and laws that you will pass, and that we will not even discuss it in laws at all. And then what we're talking about is the budget rebalancing. What does this budget rebalance indicate? I said it in the replica today, that this government has admitted to being incapable of carrying out what she planned four months ago, four months ago she said she was going to reorganize health care, that she was going to make health savings. After four months she said we're giving up, literally, she said we're giving up, we're going back to the old ones, they're going to spend it. My colleague Kekin showed you very clearly here how it's possible to save, so 940 million on one thing only, and that kind of thing at the Department of Health you have as much as you want. Health care, efficiency, I think is one of the most inefficient parts of this country's system. But not because sisters don't work, but because those who manage it don't manage it properly. Because those who run the systems are responsible for your efficiency. I'm here at the beginning when it was, or when I talked about the budget then I touched three things, so I also mentioned them on the board. I'm going to ask again who runs HEP, how someone calculates electricity prices, and how the de facto for amortised power plants came today five times the electricity price for entrepreneurs, then we can also talk about the electricity price of what my colleague Bulj was saying for units. local self-government. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111134	We have a replica of the respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111135	You said some aspects of the rebalancing and what you'd expect. Here's to me and rhetorical and a little provoking the answer. So we have a situation we couldn't predict, which is war in Ukraine. We have a supply chain situation that we couldn't predict, but we also have a whole series of elements that we could have predicted, although you have also warned about when budgeting including health care, including the rise in energy prices unrelated to war, etc. We don't see anything in this budget for amortizing them. All we see is the spilling from the hollow into the empty or patching holes of a system that obviously doesn't work well and without reform won't work. My question to you would actually be, since this is every government's identity card, and that's the budget that you're assessing, in fact, the government's work or what this budget would be. Developmental or not? [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111136	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111137	It would be very difficult for me, after what I said, to give a positive assessment to the government, but I'm going to make a connection and remind the minister of something else. The idea when she went, the rebalancing, not the rebalancing, but the amending VAT law, to take down VAT on solar panels for houses. That's when the government refused. Why did the government say no? So that HEP could generate revenue. I will remind the minister that several times from this pay phone was asked to see why HEP practically hitchhiks energy projects in the Republic of Croatia, and it really stops them because it imports cheap electricity and then sells it. And no, the purpose of managing the system would be whether it could be expected to increase energy, is, but the question is how are we going to prevent or install it, counterpart Bulj was talking about the price of water that would increase them due to the price of electricity.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111138	The next replica of the respected Renata Sablar Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111139	Thank you, Vice President. I see that you have referred to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the State Budget in the Republic of Croatia and have stressed that this law has passed undetectedly. Where you expect that we may have the greatest changes within or some minor rebalancing as you call them means within the budget that we will not see and we will not notice and what you expect the biggest interference or the biggest cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111140	I thank you, so for the first time, this government has practically made it possible to sign the future, I call it a covert, covert responsibility, so today you sign something projected in the budget for 2023, 2024 or another year, and you don't have that in the budget today. And let us be aware of one thing each budget must pass this Croatian Parliament. This means that someone today knows who will be making the budgets for another 2 years and that they will have a majority for items as planned. I have to admit it will be interesting in the City of Zagreb, and the minister looked back at me in the replica to see what the state budget would look like in 3 years when someone else comes in as you can see in the City of Zagreb today what comes out of the closet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111141	Next replica, respected Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111142	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, at the beginning of your presentation, you asked a question that is legitimate, which is a government policy that will lead to a better life for our fellow citizens. One of them you will remember was highly represented in public space by the ruling 2020, '21st, and these are the funds that we have at our disposal by European funds, meaning some 24 billion kuna. We can see that it was also a great opportunity, and that nothing is said about it today. And why isn't it talking? Because we don't have operational programmes that are in place and we've been waiting for it by the European Commission for a year and a half, there hasn't been nearly a single contest, and we can see that in the Ministry of Economy where we had planned 100 million kuna, and that's reduced to, 77 and 23 million, respectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111143	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111144	I'm not gonna be bad, so I'm gonna say I said again long ago this is a pure PR government that uses PR instruments at some point to represent something. It currently presents that she gave citizens 42 from Covid, then when you look at the report, it clearly says that Covida's cost was 23 billion. Of these 23 billion citizens were really given 7.3 2020 and 4.6 2021, and all the other money was practically spilling from hollow to empty, and for this part of 7.3 and 4.6 billion here I would like Mr. Minister to say in the final word how much he got from Europe. And I told you, this was just their PR, nothing more than the mass of these other things, I've got more in writing, but I haven't arrived.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111145	Next is the individual debate of the respected Renate Sablar Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111146	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, you are very patient and brave to be with us and in these afternoons. So, for a long time, I've talked about how we needed health reform, and how without it it was supposed to be not yesterday but before a larger series, a greater number of years, but they never happened. Reform is a big problem because the moment you reform something, you have practically double investment. First into that system that already exists and that has to work, then into something new or something that you're creating. I can agree with you that the change in ownership structure will not change the situation or contribute to reform. The reforms might contribute to the categorization of hospitals that will work and I believe they will, that they will contribute to one part, but we all remember very well the system where we had large medical centres that united everything and could cover all needs in health care. We've deployed a deliberate systematic health system to certain units that don't act coordinated anymore, and that's something that has to change as many different administrations as we have now, I'm going to talk, here's a Zadar example, sometimes we've only had a center or pooled so it was everything, and now we have a hospital in general, two special hospitals, well they've been separated in the system before, but we've got an Emergency Medical Services, a Public Health Department. Is there a need for all of this to be so fragmented or has it worked much better when it was unique and comprehensive? It is, it is so tied up in this reform that we really need and the amount of money spent in health care is huge and you yourself have stated that at the monthly level now the debts are growing between 400 to 500 million kuna, which is a terrible data, but at the same time you do not respect the law or lex specialis which clearly says that the funds collected by excise duties would have to be directed towards the health system. When you introduced these funds, your mouth was full of how much health care needed that money, the last example was when excise duties were introduced to sweetened drinks. Yeah, I agree. So all that money should be directed where it is needed and with that intention it is taken to the citizens. Unfortunately, this is not happening at the moment, but if it were to happen in one way, our institutions would be more relieved because they could plan that income, and then absolutely certainly, these debts would not grow to that extent because they would know what they were expecting in some period. And one more thing, to answer my parliamentary question, there's no data, and then I, Minister, can think whatever I want if you didn't write to me that it was, I don't know, 4 billion kunas, a billion and a half, 2, 3, I'm pounding because I don't know how much it is and how much it's, how much of a country has come in that way. Of course this, you'll have to change the whole paradigm health care, the costs will have to be reduced, but I think it's a big problem that pharmaceutical houses count exactly with that being delayed payment and that this one, they certainly calculate it into price, you're an economist, you'll know it much better than me, and then how much is that price and will the combined procurement do it sufficiently? So we need reforms, we need them yesterday, hurry up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111147	We have several replicas, the first to honor Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111148	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. You've listed a lot of important things that we've already talked about, which in this assembly, and what on the Committee on Health and Social Policy whose president you are, and it's good that we are actually common forces, primarily we are in opposition opening these topics and in some way driving the governing administration to talk more about existing health problems. Of course not, we'll never ask for something that's good, there are some good moves, but in principle our health system is crying out for change. The minister announced, when I asked him about the topic, that by 30.6 he would go to the public consultation of the Health Protection Act. Do you have any idea if that's going to happen at all? The law is just one link in this whole series that needs to be realized so that we can even talk about some kind of reform and consolidation of the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111149	I agree, fellow Members, with you, that the Health Protection Act is very important, but as you know yourself because you are a member of the Health Committee, Secretary of State Dulibic explained to me that I have nothing to ask about such a thing because if we move to the ruling majority then I will have the right to know.../incomprehensible/... have all the information, and I may even be able to participate in decisions. No, we don't know anything, we don't communicate with the Health Committee, so we don't get much, lots, lots of complaints, and that's too bad because we don't want to disturb the ruling, however, we want to make serious good changes for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111150	Next replica, respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111151	Thank you very much. My colleagues Sablar-Dračev. I think now on the replica board you actually touched what I wanted to ask you. You said and that's, I mean anyone who's well-intentioned and who's talking about this subject, I think it can be agreed that our health system is actually in need of a root reform. And it's sad that not because Covid himself is part of the cause, but our patients are waiting longer and longer for certain tests, certain checks, etc., etc. And it's clear to me that the ruling people don't want these reforms because if you're a member of the ruling, then you can come up with a review, then you can get to a specialist, but if you're an ordinary citizen, if you're someone who pays that service and it's expensive to pay if we talk about the workers and the separations they give, then you don't have the right to access to that healthcare system the way we should. We put a lot of money into it, and we get very little for our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111152	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111153	So I can agree with you that these citizens are really investing in the health system a lot, and the health system somehow works like this bottomless pit and no matter how much we put it in, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we don't, we have nothing to talk about, because these tails that are dragging around with pharmaceutical houses are no good for, no society, no system. Yeah, so this guy's trying to solve these waiting lists, solve the problem, and there's a hell of a lot of communication problems, so he's complaining to the patients not to pick up the results, and that's just because if you're sent by a hospital specialist he's got your report and why would I go to the counter when I get that find when I get to the next review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111154	Next replica, respected Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111155	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you have spoken about the subject of health and I agree with you when you say that it is certainly not a problem that can be solved overnight certainly requires a lot of effort and knowledge. However, I am interested in what you think about some announcements of reform, which is that it will go into the centralisation of the health system, would such a reform, such a new system, primarily contribute to improving the quality of health services for our citizens and would such a system lead to the reduction of our health debt?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111156	I appreciate the question. I personally agree here with Minister Marić, I think that this centralization of the health system will not be much help or that you will convert general hospitals and those who do business positively which are not many and those who are doing so negatively are far more than this or put them under a state's cap I think that local self-government should have a growing power that the less state should be central because that best local self-government should best recognise the needs of its citizens and direct material resources towards what they need, and they know which segment of health care they want to develop, of course we can't all develop everything, every few things.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111157	The next debate was respected by Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111158	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. I will also refer to the fact that public debt, as has been known since 2019 when 71.1% of GDP shares in 2020, has increased to 87.3 due to the pandemic. However, in 2021, as I said, since economic growth was over 10% and all other positive effects, so in 2021 it was already down to 79.8%, which means 7.5 percentage points lower than 2020, and in 2022 it is expected to be 76.2% or 3.6 percentage points lower than the previous year. So all of this indicates that, despite all the problems facing both the minister and the state budget, it really is highly rational and it takes care of exactly the criteria that it is, they are set out from the mastery and that is what we really have to boast because few of which the state has achieved in this way, to meet it in this way and so strongly. I will also refer to the amendments that have been adopted as part of our session of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The two amendments are the amendments where the draft changes and the addition of the state budget for the '22s are made. and projection 2023 and '24. in point (a) of the general section of Article 5(1), point (b) is replaced by the following: 1st in the table that income and expenditure bill where the plan for '22. the amount of the non-financial assets is thus replaced by 160,404,607,707, and the costs for the purchase of non-financial assets where they are corrected to the amount of 12,908,411,930 and the amount of the operating expenditure is changed in such a way that the amount of the non-financial assets is replaced by 10,344,883,515 and for the purchase of non-financial assets by 1,067,144,542 is replaced by 554,993,497. The proposed amendment technically corrects the amount of the 2022 plan and reduces and increases the cost of business and expenditure for the purchase of non-financial assets. The error showed the original plan in 2022, which the HS adopted at its session on 8 December 2021 instead of the current 2022 plan covering the redistribution of funds implemented during 2022. It's all consistent. 60. The budget law, and consequently, needs to be corrected and reduced, i.e. an increase in these expenditures. Similarly, the amendment does not change the total amount of expenditure, so it is all within the defined values but in the transfer table itself there was an error. In addition, in Amendment 2 where the general section 2 of Table 2 of the financing account is replaced by the amount of net funding in column 2022 in a way that amounts of 17 billion 070 805 854 is replaced by 9 billion 336 289 723 and is also replaced by 2 billion 643 962 417 by 4 333 38 813 683 and is amended in column a new plan in such a way that the amount of 19 billion 714 768 271 is replaced by 13 billion 675 103 406. Here's the thing, technically nothing changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111159	Replica, the esteemed Maria Steel.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111160	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, here we are witnessing in fact that the government has taken very responsible measures to help citizens first and foremost, during this crisis period and after the earthquake and after Covid. Today, during the debate, we had the opposition to hear the question of what this rebalancing brings for the citizens. Given the situation in which we are already in place, which we don't even know until the end what final form we will have in Europe, and the world, it seems to me that this rebalancing is still rational and responsible, and only in investing and in solving debts in health care, I think it says how seriously this government thinks that in those frameworks, as much as possible, it really helps in all directions, that it also takes care of the most vulnerable groups in society as well. So tell me what your thinking is and your attitude about it. Is this rebalancing responsible and rational?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111161	Answer. The answer, and we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111162	Thank you very much. Article 238 was injured, I think colleague Jelkovac insults all of us who are here all day and then the Croatian public. So we're wondering what this budget is all about all the time, so we're wondering what it brings to Croatian citizens, so we're talking about it and I don't know if you're listening to the lines, here if you haven't been before, we're wondering about it. We didn't get any answers from either the minister or the secretary of state, but neither did your colleague. So give it up, don't insult Croatian citizens if you already think of us who are here all day.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111163	You used this for a replica, you get a warning. The answer to the line, Grozdan. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111164	Thank you very much. Thank you, fellow Members, for this, it is really not clear to me that the opposition does not recognize any of what has been done and with this rebalancing, and even the previous one that has happened because it is more than obvious that both the economy and the business of both the population and the pensioners have been taken into account in the previous period. That it was quite well kept in account in conditions that were pandemics that reacted quickly and efficiently, so when you look at over 170,000 entrepreneurs had the need for funds to help during the pandemic, then it's already very much said.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111165	The next replica was respected, a new violation of the Rules of Procedure, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111166	Thank you very much. Article 238, so colleagues please don't insult the opposition I'll tell you again. So, we're proposing some things, we suggested seven months ago when we were bringing this budget, you didn't adopt anything. We talked about health problems, we said this was going to be a problem. We've been warning about that, and now you're rebalancing it, and now here we are unconstructive. Well, if we're not constructive then please, I mean really here, don't lie to the Croatian public, that's all I'm asking you to do. [[- Not you either.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111167	Okay, you're getting a second warning. Replica Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111168	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Peric, challenging times. I would say that this government as little as in history has gone through so many challenges that have really brought a lot of things that have not been calculated and could not be calculated, from Covid, so here we are now in a time that is very challenging geostrategically considered because of Russia's aggression in Ukraine. Of course, agriculture is a strategic branch of the economy and in this rebalancing budget it is recognised. The 200 million kuna has been rebalanced by the government for the needs of farmers to assist in the spring harvest and, of course, for the harvest to come. So I am for criticism, but for overly critical of what can improve the domestic gross social product, and in the end here you see this vision of thinking about what might possibly be waiting for us in some time that we can't, we can't predict.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111169	Yeah, and I'm a critic because sometimes criticism can encourage it. However, we are very well aware of what needs to be done in health care, that it is necessary and recorded and implemented etc., but we have been in the pandemic for 2 years so when no major changes have been made, since the whole world has been in trouble, and so have we. And when we look at how much it's invested and how much it's invested for pensions, for additions, you've mentioned this extra for employees, for agriculture, so 200 million is not enough, the farmers will say it's not, but this government has found a way to ensure and mitigate at least part of what is due to energy prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111170	Next is the individual debate of the respected Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111171	Honorable Vice President, Honored Proposers, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to mention two topics here regarding budget rebalancing. The first thing is, I've already said something about her in the replica, I'm going to try a little bit here, a little more detail to the public, and you with that problem. Therefore, public water supply providers are today forced to increase water prices due to an extremely large increase in electricity prices. We heard today from fellow Bulls who talked about it and that's an objective problem. Well, here's what I mentioned, for example. The waterway, the Sibenik water line, which today covers the entire Sibenik-Knin County most of it, even parts of Split County and that it will be likely to keep the same situation without pay increases, required between 25 and 30% increase the water price due to an increase in electricity prices. What you might see, colleagues don't know, and those who are watching this, most water supply stations use electric pumps to pump water to start the system, and if electricity prices rise, and now they offer 300 percent higher than they were, so 300 percent, then we have one big problem. It's not the only cost of electricity, but it's a significant item. Now, I've introduced this kind of electrical energy supplement for the pensioners, and here I am really, I've been thinking and talking a little bit to people who are in the vault, which model could be offered. This is going to be one big hit on citizens' standards, and I think that there would have to be a model there that even through, I don't know, that maybe even for citizens, I don't know, maybe for entrepreneurs, although for entrepreneurs, too, the big problem is that price is limited or in some way subsidized. If someone had an account, I don't know, 200 kuna, the minimum will now mean 260, and somewhere more. I'm talking about your subject. It's water. It's water. The second thing that I would like to call here is for respected proposings to keep a little account, and these are always the famous prices of fuel and excise duties. When the fuel price is 13 kuna, then we have a lot of VAT and we see that VAT is actually now due to the increase, because of inflation, that we have, that a good VAT is being charged, that is, to fill the budget. I think that this country is precisely because here, VAT, means large bio fuel prices could still affect the cost of excise duties and reduce the price of fuel through the reduction of VAT on energy because it's not now the state's interest to fill the budget through the price of fuel on the burden of citizens and of course entrepreneurs, but to find some balance, to cut the VAT because it's obviously enough because of the high price, I guess you've figured out what I'm talking about. Well, maybe that's it. I'm sorry the minister got out this minute, but here, these are the two topics. So I will repeat, given that I have another minute and a half, the price of water depends largely on the price of electricity, if the price of electricity for public water supply providers went 300% higher, the price of water must also go. That's, I said an example in the Sibenik plumbing, if it's 30%, 30%, which is a major blow, there'll be more somewhere. The Sibenik water line is fortunate that when the high water supply in the rivers has its power generation, it has its generators and produces electricity that drives the pumps. Some plumbing, I notice, with colleagues of Bulja they don't have it and then they'll have maybe.../incomprehensible/... and a bigger increase because they're more dependent on electricity, here's the real problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111172	Next is the individual debate of the respected Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111173	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the Ministry. [[Intruding Zekanovic: Calls war in Ukraine, colleague.]] My colleagues and fellow MPs. So not long ago we had a debate about disbanding the Parliament, about the work of the government and what I said then, I'm going to repeat today. Personally, I think that Minister Maric is a good minister, perhaps even the best in the government, only to point out that his political discourse, which then, of course, dictates a lot of other policies that are implemented through the Ministry of Finance, is not something that we would be prepared to support from this side of the assembly and that we would be willing to advocate because it comes from us absolutely unacceptable economic schools, especially from an unacceptable economic school related to the moment in which today our citizens, our country, and even much wider, the whole world, lives. I am sorry, too, that there are no other ministers because some of the questions that have been raised today in the assembly are related to all other ministers, including the Prime Minister himself. One of the main topics is health care, where besides throwing a lot of numbers, explaining that there is no good, but we all fight together, we haven't heard a single sentence about how we're going to deal with this problem and how we're going to solve it so that we don't end up questioning the functioning of the system because we know ourselves that it usually breaks down on those who are the most threatened and who can least afford to pay for their treatment in private clinics. But what I would like specifically to apostrophe in my debate is our tax policies. So this crisis has shown how fragile we have an economic structure, how much we haven't done on both energy and agricultural self-sufficiency, but how much we haven't done in all these years to have a fair tax system that we won't be able to say to protect private capital and to allow those who are rich, to have even more. Unfortunately, today, that's the way it is. We have a tax policy regarding income tax, where we have made it possible, in recent changes, that our parliamentary pay representatives go up 1,000 kuna, and the cooks and cleaning ladies in the Parliament went 50, 60 and we said it was just so good. Of course it's not good and of course it would be rational to pay more for those who have started over. It is also interesting that all finance ministers so far, from all governments, mostly and exclusively reforming tax policies played with income tax, have only always forgotten at the end of the day to tell citizens that this is not the state's income and that the state does not deny something that is the income of municipalities, cities and counties. That's where we come to another field to get into the National Recovery and Resistance plan with a lot of projects. Otherwise, the community has already responded to certain competitions. Most of the municipalities in the community have HDZ, signed a chief who is HDZ and is asking questions with such policies towards a place that municipalities and cities will especially poorer in the first place be able to think about the National Recovery and Resistance Plan and the IT Mechanism. Is it possible that the time has come to finally say that a profit tax could stay where it is created, which would also create competence among the cities to attract investors, but perhaps it is time to start discussing property tax and luxury tax, because today we all know that at this time inflation, those who have money are furiously loading it into real estate. We have a huge growth in the real estate market and we're coming back to the phase that the rich are buying, and those who might want to build their first home today can't get involved in that game. It's an entire set of tax policy debates I believe will be willful. Because if we had five packages, we could have a sixth, but only with the intention of restoring justice and simply this crisis doesn't do everything they've done and the other crises, that they've become richer and poorer. And just for the end of the second election unit, I think the finance minister knows how much the second constituency is in the budget. Finally, he knows how much Koprivnica brings Podravka with its profits and other results in the budget itself. I believe that the problems that have arisen on the second track which is a very important project mainly on the move from Long Sela – Križevci, and there are objections with performers and on some other projects, but also on the issue raised by the acquisition of material about the continuation of the fast road towards Koprivnica and Bjelovar should not turn out to be used again by someone, that for the jubilee hundredth time Koprivnica, Bjelovar, Vrbovac, Long Selo, another electoral unit gets out of the state budget absolutely nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111174	Next is an individual discussion of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111175	What to say here is this rebalancing mostly refers to health care. However, health services in the Republic of Croatia are not the same in the whole area as the Constitution would tell us, but since no one respects the Constitution, neither is the Constitutional Court so we expect neither from the Ministry of Health nor from the Ministry of Finance. I'd just say as far as health services are concerned, they're getting worse and worse. Unfortunately, I wish it were different, it's a single lobby, I can tell everyone about the lobby, partly run the Knight's Alkaric Society and a health care kit in Sinj. You go to see a gynecologist who works in a health care facility, he gives you a manual of one of the key people, I guess, for example, he gives you an instruction to go to a private person. In the town of Sinj is also the one in the Knights' Alkar society and ultimately the same gynecologist who referred you from the House of Health examines you in private. That's what I'm saying to women about how the system works, and that's the facts. And that's basically an opposition to me in the city of Sinj, basically the Knight's Alkarian Society. Management, not people. They would still want not only to manage health care. Here's my colleague Brcic very well knows that they run the whole system and that's the problem. These are the problems, it is HDZ infrastructure, the HDZ infrastructure of the Knights' Alkar society, and so in all cities probably and mainly the county that allows them to take over the entire system and what is said publicly and privately. They work in the public sector, and they get double wages in the private sector, but they're well-connected things. However, the damages we have now will, of course, be spoken of in the coming period, because this is the time ahead that we have to tell the truth and we are the truth, and my colleague Brcic knows that I will tell the truth and only the truth and the evidence. And that's how it is for you, isn't it? And as for this problem that we have a huge problem, that's the problem, I'm saying, I've asked Plenkovic a question, the prime minister here on the topical clock, that there's a huge problem waiting for us. It is a collection of electricity for water lines mainly in mountain-mounted areas. He didn't take it seriously. Then I will return to the question of what hurts him, the issue of Croats in BiH, and it did not realize that simply when the current collects 500% for water and sewage at that time comes a chain reaction where it must collect water and end-user, economics and, of course, households. He'd been talking about it for a long time, and I really thought he'd take it seriously. Because you've made the PR the most successful in solving the energy problem after this covid terror, this covid dictatorship with these covid meaningless certificates. You've made a huge terror, and now, of course, we have to collect. That's all the results. However, the solution exists, I will present it soon. I believe all the mayors from other areas are listening to me. That solution is very simple. I'm not taking it out now, but here's the day I hope you'll give the solution. So I'm giving you the ruling time to figure it out, give you a solution. If you do not give the solution I as mayor of the town of Sinja am the majority owner of the water pipeline and the disposal of the Cetina region, where the partial and Split hinterland is powered and I will bring the solution. And it's going to be terribly simple, I can say it in two roars. So I'm giving you time to not be, and I've given you too much time. Even in the county, I was saying it the last time in the County Assembly, but I didn't know what it was about. But you've done well with the PR. That 10% of the crowds if you can listen to this is very important to the respected representatives of the ministry, they don't care, these waters play their own game is the latest game, which the secretary of state, and the new game well. Try it. I'd just say that you didn't collect 10% of the electricity, but you've collected a lot more electricity for the citizens of the Republic, and you've made it hard for the PR to fail us during that hep that's ours, and you see what we're doing, especially when we're talking about these mountainous and mountainous areas to the plains where we're going to have minor problems... they're not going to need enough energy. I've got a solution. I'll give you a few days to figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111176	There is a replica called Brumnic esteemed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111177	Dear fellow Bull. I expected you to explain to the ministry representatives that HEP is a state-owned company that produces 60% of electricity on amortised power plants, so there is no logical reason to collect that electricity. 25% of the products from a nuclear plant where there's also no reason to collect, so in this case, the state could practically limit the price of electricity at practically the entire state level. What could also make the income, or profit that HEP has from a billion and 400 million in the last year, or put before it into a cut in electricity prices. They didn't do any of these things, and the state did. is a 100% owner of HEP. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111178	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111179	True, I agree, however, and he has obligations for party campaigns to save that money, so local self-government must. Still, the people ultimately citizens entrepreneurs will not care to pay these costs. Of course they're generous and sponsors, they're generous severances in HEP, they've got family heirlooms in HEP they've got it all, they're our HEP, I mean ours, they're creating energy, but it's an inherited one company that would have said monarchy because everything is hereditary in it from the helical to the helical, but I have a solution to this problem. I only give them time to get along a little bit, but they or are confused, I saw that they started... when Zekanovic mentioned it then he must have got some kind of impasse from someone here, probably colleagues from Vodice. So I've got a solution to this problem 500 percent of the water supply in the mountain-mounted areas, I won't tell you, I'm trying to give you time to hear it soon, you'll hear it soon and it'll be well remembered, you'll remember it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111180	Next is the individual debate of the respected Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111181	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the long-standing debate on rebalancing and what was in some way and to expect the biggest debate to be about health care that was most discussed and somewhere in December when we had a debate here about the state budget for 2022. And that's not surprising, because when we look at the largest individual increase in the expenditure side right now, some nearly 4 billion kunas and the other biggest problem is that it's not if we at least paid for it, so that all the problems are gone, but the next month it's going to be 400, 500 million kuna again, so in a month after another 400, 500 billion, two very quickly accumulated, and on the next budget we'll probably be the most debated on the spending side of the health system. And what we have always said is this problem of expenditure and the consumption of a state that we cannot even with the revenue side, or we have no strategy on how to solve the problem of the expenditure side of the budget, and since knowledge and political will obviously does not exist either. We have, so for almost a year I appealed here at the beginning of this term when it was the problem of the Bat factory in Kanfanar to try a solution, remember there was a problem with excise duties and here today I am glad that this problem was solved. And today I read that in these two years they invested over 400 million kunas in production capacity, hired another 70 people, and that's what this country needs. Unfortunately, such examples are too little for us at this point, we need such industries not only in Istria but throughout Croatia, because there was also a colleague recently speaking, we built in Slavonia in some place a kindergarten, but the question is who we built it for. We've withdrawn funds from the EU, okay, but for who? And when we talk about EU funds, that's what I wanted to touch. So we have a situation that I think was precedentd in history that we from the Solidarity Fund didn't make it somewhere in the middle of the 6th month this year, we weren't ready to have enough capacity to pull it out and then we managed to get an additional period by the middle of the 6th month next year to withdraw all the funds. In the Recovery and Resistance Fund so far, we have only launched two tenders, only two competitions, everything we have at our disposal we have to contract in the next two years, and spend or use the funds we agreed on until 2026. We're already half of '22, time goes by, and when we see the Solidarity Fund that we haven't done a good job, when we see that in the Recovery and Resistance Fund we don't do a good job, when we see that, yes, we know that the praise is true we contracted over 120% of the funds in the last envelope, that's important, but it's much more important how much of these funds we pulled out or spent, and here we're at about 65%. And on the one hand, we have a development index where you punish someone who's a little bit more developed, and that would even be okay if we spent all 100 percent of our resources, and you refuse to spend any city or municipality project, and on the other hand, money is not spent. And then punish someone who works for it, not now, I can speak from the perspective of Istria from where I come from, but you have it in northern Croatia, so you have the end and the city of Zagreb. And that's what we appeal to and it's not that we're less solid, it's not our problem not to go anywhere else, but don't take away those who work and create. And I think it's really one thing that I'm trying to be constructive and give some example that those funds are being used especially when I'm justly stating that problems, that we have serious problems with the withdrawal of European funds because we have them, that's the fact. And better for us, the sooner we open our eyes to the team, the sooner we can solve that problem. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111182	We have several replicas, the first one is Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111183	Thank you very much. My colleague, you come from a more developed part of the body, you come from a more developed part of the Republic of Croatia we talk about Istria, but also the fact that you're talking about withdrawing funds that we have this problem that the funds are not being spent without certain local self-governments being able to get. However, the fact is also that the state should see that certain units of local self-government have no financial capacity, no knowledge, no experience, no ability at all to apply anything, and that is the problem in which we revolve around. We can't meet those obligations here, and on the other hand, someone who can't get it. And it would be fair, of course, that how evenly it is equaled that these undeveloped municipalities are developing on purpose that those who are building are not braked, but in us everything is the opposite, there is always some vicious circle in which they are spinning and there is no solution, similar to this collection of electricity. Electricity is not as more expensive, and for the citizens there will be 500 percent more expensive water. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111184	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111185	I agree with my colleague Bulj, we do not have the capacity in some units of local and regional self-government to write a project or apply it, there are no states either, but this is something we should have seen in the first envelope. I mean, we literally have a situation where someone who knows how to work with European funds, so there's no way they're going to go to work at a local and regional self-government unit. For what? For 7,500 kuna, look, they won't. Why? Because he's gonna make three times as much as a private man, and we got a serious problem here, too. So not only are the units of local and regional self-government having a problem with personnel, and that's why we're here, and that's why we're not able to solve the problems of the one I spoke about in my individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111186	Next replica, respected Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111187	Your Honor, you come from one of the most developed counties in our country, and I believe that just like all of us who are in the northwest, you have several possible units of local self-government that are not sufficiently developed, and which are also a problem with the employment of people and who have problems building projects. Nevertheless, I believe that the county has come to these people for help and that they have designed the project. However, given that Istria has been developed because Croatia does not withdraw money from funds, many projects that are finished are standing because it simply does not come money. Do you know how many projects are currently in Istria waiting for competitions to be held?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111188	So at this point in time to be honest, I don't know what the exact number of projects on hold is, but we are certainly ready at the county level, but I believe that both cities and municipalities are ready because for many years we've all been together in this whole story and we're just waiting for competitions to be discussed, but the problem is that these operational programmes and effective human potentials and competitiveness and cohesion and integrated territorial programmes are simply not called for because communication between the Ministry of Regional Development and eu funds with the European Commission is still clearly ongoing, and there are obviously certain problems. What are those problems? We don't know because we can't see correspondence, but there are obviously problems and they're obviously too slow to solve because here's what I've said for the past year and a half, and there's still no contest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111189	Next replica honoured Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111190	I thank the chairman. Dear colleague. You were talking about eu funds and usability, not usability, absolutely agree with your claims, but my concern is even greater pro futuro, so what's just going to happen to NPOO. Namely, I don't know if you noticed, but there are announcements, and we can see by some tenders that the vast majority of the contests will be on the principle of the fastest finger. This means that not only those who have the highest quality projects will not gain but will neither be obtained by the development index necessarily but those who have the best connection to enter in the first second, two and on that basis the age of funds. That's how it works now in the energy efficiency competition when the people who came in first second were 750 and some in a row. So I think that's what's going to jeopardize both this budget plan and the spending of NPOO funds in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111191	Right, I agree. I agree exactly with you I think it's a big problem, I think that projects should be approved and valorized by their actual quality and by what they bring into the community in which these projects are to be implemented tomorrow. [[Stain Sanader: Answer.]] And now that you've mentioned this fastest finger and the Recovery and Resistance Fund, if I'm not mistaken, there was one tender for entrepreneurs, in principle, the fastest finger where the projects were accepted and even entrepreneurs got a decision on project financing, they went to work, or they went to their investments, which they applied for in order for the simple competition to be annulled, so the question is why. Did he get someone who didn't need it or didn't sign up for someone who needed it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111192	Next is the individual debate of the respected Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111193	Thank you. Dear Vice President, the minister is gone, Your Honor. I am here because of all these discussions that our representatives of the ruling majority had here changed their debate entirely. First, we heard from the ruling that they condemn the assessments of some opposition MPs about the incompetence of ministers and government as a whole. Are we talking about incompetence and misunderstanding and poor consideration of the needs in the country by individual ministers or parts or the entire government in the period when the budget is being adopted is exactly the same for us. You can call it whatever you want but the result is the same, we see it today. Five months ago, the ruling majority said in a assembly in front of the entire Croatian public that the budget is good, developed, social, sustainable, loud and we vote for such a budget. Where are we today? When we claimed that this budget was not good, when we claimed that we had problems especially in the health care portfolio, you did not accept these arguments. Well, you've only missed on, you've only missed on the budget that's tied to the Ministry of Health you've missed 27% of the people. And they claimed it was okay. Five months later, today you're saying that, don't say that it was wrong last time, no, today you're saying that this is the real budget that this budget is good. And we're telling you again, it's not good, we're going to have rebalancing because of the same problems. In a few months we'll be doing the budget again, you'll be talking about the same reasons. The Russian invasion of Ukraine, health care, energy, global labour shortages, inflation, will all be listed as reasons for the next rebalancing. So please accept that something is wrong, that we need to change that, that we need to react differently. I've responded several times to stories about the number of employees here. Do not deceive the Croatian public and talk about the number of employees in a way that takes account of those who are registered to... Because that's not true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have a large number of students there, you have a large number of people working temporarily for a certain time. That should be considered. When you talk about paying off entrepreneurs in order to preserve jobs be fair and correct and tell the Croatian public how much of the money has come from Europe then you talk about it because it is not isolated from our budget, we did not earn it in Croatia, we got it from European funds. The claims about the big growth of the economy, what did you back them up to? Let's check it out in a way that we can get publicly available data. In a way to deal with 2020 when the Covid crisis hit us and then we see that VAT revenue growth in 2022 compared to the 2020 income plan marked a 28.11% growth. At the same time, the growth in income from the contribution is 18.56%. What does that tell you? This says that spending in Croatia did not grow because of the increase in wages but increased because of the increase in grants or payments from abroad of our people who moved out of abroad because they could not work here. That's the money that's being expressed in VAT today. And taking into account what happened with VAT that we've reduced the VAT rate to a large number of products that are good and what's good and what's good, then we realize how much we actually have price increases and how unfavourable it is for our citizens who live here. And we're doing absolutely nothing. It even went so far as to talk about the global crisis that hit the world from 2008 to 2015 and it was said that there was something wrong with the government that was then in power, from 2011 to 2015. Gentlemen, don't forget that your prime minister claimed that the global crisis would bypass Croatia and that he did absolutely nothing on this issue and left the country under fire and unprepared for the coming of the crisis. Well, that's the real truth of it. Today we heard again the announcement of a better life in Croatia and that pensions will grow 10%. Really commendable, but don't forget that yesterday was announced that inflation would be 9.6%. How much will we give the pensioners 0.4% increase in pensions? We're not giving anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111194	The first is the respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111195	Comrade Pavić, I'm really begging you now, stop lying to this tormented people. This rebalancing is not due to the war in Ukraine, not because of the failure of the government, not because of lack of vision, not because of corruption, not because of the fact that in the Ministry of Health furniture competes with florists and photographers, no, no, no, no, no. This rebalancing is probably due to World War II, I guess we still feel the consequences either of the Homeland War or of the corrupt Racan government or of the 2008 crisis, but God forbid it's because of the lack of vision or hearing of this government for something we warned about. So please, please stop making these incorrect allegations, unfortunately we don't have that institute anymore, so I can't lift it for you, I had to replicate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111196	Thank you, Your Honor. I think it's clear to everyone that what I said is absolutely true. Unfortunately, members of the ruling majority do not want to accept the fact that five months ago they missed the figure by, just for health care, 27%. It's not small and it's not enough, be careful it's not enough, we're gonna need that much more. We will need even more money to experience the end of the year and to give our fellow citizens medical attention. Without that money we'll have in the next rebalancing, there's no health care. And I've talked about it before, it's not just about this money that we owe to the wholesalers, it's also about the money we owe to HZZO because our hospitals owe us big money to HZZO because of the measures that were in place and it just couldn't be done with their tasks or jobs that they were supposed to do. Let me just tell you one thing, Special Hospital. In Krapina Spas, 90 million kunas are owed. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111197	The next replica honours Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111198	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, here you are, looking back at problems with the budget or budget rebalance in the health care sector. I find it interesting that there are actually no fellow doctors from the ruling option to praise this budget, obviously there is nothing to boast about health care, so there are none. But let's go back to health care, what you were saying. You're an IT expert, so then I love you guys about it. So, health system information, that's what 54,300 000 kuna are supposed to be, but the rebalance hasn't changed that amount at all. Do you think we have nothing further to inform? So will those funds be enough? We've got a lot of work to do. So not all health institutions are yet, have not established a hospital and information system, the issue of managing waiting lists, then connecting patient findings, e-Carton patients and editing the health system. We've got 209 grand more insurance than our residents. When's that gonna work out? So, informing the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111199	I don't know if you've been informed, however, over the past few months, systems have begun to move from hospitals to CDU. So at the Centre of Shared Services, with the goal of reducing information costs in hospitals. How successful and how successful it will be, I really don't know, it's difficult to assess at this point, however, it is certain that the Centre of shared services was not intended for this. But since we know how to fail and those systems that were needed there are currently being done in a way that fills this CDU in a way that actually the hospital information system is moving into that CDU. If all services were to be centralized, if it were in one place, it would be far, far cheaper than if every hospital were doing it for itself. Whether you will succeed in Croatia, whether it will succeed in such a short time, that is a big question. And I'm sure we'll have to invest a lot of money to keep our healthcare fully informed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111200	Next replica, dear Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111201	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague. I must commend you, you said we were using EU funds. Yes, we use them very successfully, unlike the SDP coalition, which, when it was in power, didn't even know it, you had a very low percentage of usefulness from the European, EU funds, and as for our government and what it does in continuity, increased wages, increased pensions, and you only increased the tax burden on citizens, while we used our tax reforms to dissipate them. So tell me, today you're sharing advice, I wonder which direction you'd be going with this rebalas... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111202	Honorable MPs. After your failures five months ago and the failures you have today, this budget is impossible to fix. It's just impossible. I'm glad to use the funds to the extent they're used, and we just heard from my colleague Lerotić, they're not used. The funds are not withdrawn and have problems with the local self-government unit because it is not done. And you keep saying everything's okay. It's not okay. ... Well, no, I've made hundreds of suggestions. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] None has been accepted, but no proposal has been accepted. .../incomprehensible/... of this, the amendments we have stopped writing because no amendments are accepted. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] They're not good, are they? There, says Branko, they're not good. Well, if none were right, I don't believe it. So, fellow Members, I agree with you, it would be good if we were to withdraw funds, it would be good to spend that money from the EU, however, it is done to a small extent, and what is being spent, it is misrepresented.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111203	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111204	Thank you very much. Art. 238, so my colleague Jelkovac, quoting her colleague, doesn't lie, but sometimes she doesn't tell the truth. Here, now don't tell the truth. So how many times have we suggested things? Well, now we're proposing things. So when it was a budget, how many amendments did you refuse? So when we talk about what you're going to do, you're going to have to rebalance, so you're doing it on these things. So stop telling the truth sometimes, fellow Members, because it's really not right for these people who are trying to do something about this country here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111205	Okay, you used this for replica, so you get a warning, that's your third warning. You're losing your word until the end of the debate on this subject. Answer. Excuse me, Eric Fabianic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111206	I know it's in such a budget of VAT when you refer to, therefore, budget revenue, VAT, when you refer to our citizens working outside. But there is another item that is also important, and then it can be measured exactly how much VAT from people working outside comes from abroad, and that's what this country has forgotten to do for a long time, but now de facto it taxes income tax back 5 years for something it could do over and over again, and thus de facto, and it has put people working outside at risk just because they missed people informing that, if they have a residence in Croatia, they are working abroad, this, they are obliged to report income in this country as well. So it is also measurable growth and income tax, but also VAT that comes on that basis which is certainly bigger for those who have also checked out their residence in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111207	Dear colleague Fabianic, thank you for supplementing me. We already talked about it once, and I really didn't mention it today in my debate, but we're full of our mouths of tourism, and here, last year when we had the data, we still don't have the data, in the first half of the year we had more income than our people abroad, than we've earned from tourism, and that's still growing. And not to mention how much money is made by our people who work in Croatia, but who work for foreign companies, who work online, who are connected online and who actually work in a different way than those who are employed by us. It's forgotten. They're billions of kunas nobody's talking about. These people didn't hire this country. Unfortunately. I'm sorry. I'm sorry our youngsters are going outside.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111208	The last replica, respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111209	Thank you very much. My colleague Pavić, I don't know why you're angry, but if someone is lying, you're lying because I don't think you're telling the truth, the truth, the truth, because we're leaving the government in 2011, GDP expressed in billions of kuna, 338, and so 2012. 335, 336 2013, 335 2014 It's only 2015. 344, meaning some 5.6 billion more in that famous, large mandate of the SDP that eventually kicked you out of the party. The average salary in 30 years of statehood was our only time when it fell for 83 kunas at the time of that government of yours that you praise. I mean, what's that? If you need information we have everything here, you don't need to lie. This is math, an exact figure. We don't have much to talk about. Well, there's not a single number since 2016 that's no better than all the ones you've had, that I'm not talking about employment, unemployment, etc. I mean, you have the right to be angry, to be frustrated, but don't argue with the figures that are clear in the day. I mean, don't lie to people please!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111210	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111211	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111212	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111213	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111214	You're getting a warning. This wasn't your replica. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Pavić. Mr. Fighter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111215	You can insult as much as you want, you can also disrespect as much as you want, but you haven't heard a single word of praise from me for that government. I just said the fact, which is that your prime minister at the time claimed that the global crisis would bypass Croatia. That's what I said. If they were there, I didn't say the best results, and that government was as much mine as yours was, as this one is as mine as yours. These are our governments, because they should take care of us. You don't have your own government, and I have my government and you're the only one who disrespects, insults whoever you want, but at least you bring out the truth in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111216	Next is the individual debate of the respected Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111217	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the ministry. I can't be unempathetic to the Minister of Finance. It's hard to write a budget, and it's even harder to write a rebalance. And there's really how, I take off his hat, I take off his hat. But the way you defend that rebalancing is desperate, because we have political pants, we call on the past with a little lack of reasoned debate. That's very good PR, but look, I'm basically like I said for three decades I was in the parliamentary majority that had to defend the budget. Don't get me wrong you're below the level of local HDZ trust me, Boric knows something about it. It's not easy to write a budget, not a rebalance. We have some default parameters, so that's the cost. And on the other hand, look, always these moments can be half full, half empty. Can we just admit one thing to ourselves, that we as a state have problems that are structural. Here we all talk about health care, etc. Structural issues are decisive, only politics has to determine that. So in order to solve some things, we need to politically determine about structural reforms, whether it's health, whether it's something else without further ado. And for that, we should have political will. So if we don't have the strength for structural reform, then both the earthquake and the war in Ukraine come phenomenally well in political rhetoric but we lie to each other, we lie to each other. I'll have the same thing very specific. Speaking of rebalancing, I'll talk about APN. So the day before yesterday, it came out on the web site that credit subsidies were secured in the budget, i.e. in the rebalancing of 50 million kunas and by mathematics, they were de facto already spent. For what reason? Because if we have 2700 so far approved applications, 4200 total. When we multiply it by the average value of the loan, then we've fired that 5 million in the last five months. We shot them. Well, at the same time in rebalancing, we have a 42 million and 600,000 kuna strip. If I were dealing with rhetorical and stylish figures, but I'm not dealing with it, something was taken off of the total assets available to APN that's about 540 million kuna. What I am interested in, from that very point of view, is whether it is Mr. Maric as a proposer of de facto who wrote that budget tell the new minister to press this APN chief of yours a little bit more to do at least with regard to the data from the budget on real estate income. That's where we failed a little bit, so get him to work, so get him to soak the rest of the money. It's one of the options. It's a story that can be told based on numbers, we can tell them differently. Well, I see one other thing here. Then a man would say this rebalance is on my mother. So, after the proposal for a rebalancing has already passed, so I'm going to quote the minister's statement, he says, given the number of requests received normally, and the question is how many will be by the end of the year, so it's over, so the man works over the weekend, I'm taking off his hat to discuss the issue with the prime minister and the finance minister, and it's agreed that these funds will be provided so that he doesn't have to worry about it. So we take it off the rebalance 42 and something million, but here it is, we have a promise that it will eventually come back. Now whether, I'm interested exactly, taking into account the Budget Law, etc. whether there will be such amounts that they can be tolerated within the items so that we do not have to rebalance it no, but that all requests and that, which are procedurally justified, that, that this, that will be fulfilled not because otherwise this is the rebalancing of our mothers, no. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111218	Here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111219	Thank you very much, my colleague Fabianić injured Article 238, and I don't know what this finding of yours was that we are here at a level below the local level as representatives. I mean, I personally really know a lot of our locals and councilmen and regional and state officials, etc., I think that we're all certain abilities and try to offend someone that way, I think what you're going to do in that social democratic, what this party, the association, I don't know, so you have nothing but this state level, maybe everybody below you is not worth it, but it's just below every level that you say it. as one man who ran both congregations and was a politician etc. ... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111220	You win, you get a warning. Please, you get a warning. [[We have a soul.]] Replica, Renata Sablar Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111221	Thank you, Vice President. Let's get away from these, this kind of communication I don't support that way either. Structural reforms, you mentioned them. It has been pointed out many times today that we need a serious structural reform of health, but I don't think that's enough for us to have a terrible problem in the Republic of Croatia and that we need a series of these structural reforms, so please share with us what you think we should do first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111222	In my view, the priority would be what are most, the highest releases in the budget in a way that costs are optimised and rationalized, but the thing is, first of all, we have to build public perception that not everything is great and that it works well. And that we must all be aware of that. And let's also say for example. If you look at the logs, who is to blame because today it may be justified to protest drivers in the sanity transport. Drivers in the sanity transport are drivers who are in their homes of health. So, with whom, let's say, the Ministry of Health de facto doesn't have anything to do with it. And strike you know where, in those counties where that injustice exists. I don't know if you know it, but in the Primorian-Gorski County, they don't strike because it's even and because it's settled. So it's not all the fault of the state either, but we all have to get together to make the system better, more efficient and of course. _Other Organiser Habiting. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111223	There's a final debate coming up. The first is on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the respected representative Zeljko Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111224	I thank the chairman. Here's the good news, though, is that while we're late, we've seen debts and the need to pay these health debts urgently, it's been seen that 27% of the funds are missing so that our fellow citizens can continue to receive health care, so that they can buy medicines because without it, we'll soon be without the necessary medicines. It is also good that steps have been taken to reduce the energy crisis. We know that some 75-6 million will be invested for the cost of filling the Okoli, which is good. We also know that the suppliers will actually get that part or that they will have to invest that part of the money needed to do so, to fill that warehouse. Of course, here I think primarily of natural gas and, therefore, in this rebalancing, we support that these items change and adapt to the needs of our citizens. What I can't figure out is how it's possible that our country is unable to do anything to reach oil and gasoline prices that are more than 40 percent in our country than in Hungary. Unfortunately, I did not get an answer to my reply to Minister Maric, and I asked who made a mistake in his assessment, whether it was the Minister of Health who misplanned or reduced his planned size in the Ministry of Finance. It would be good to hear that answer today so that we know whether the Minister of Health is completely lost in his evaluations or if someone has decided in advance that health services will be reduced, and with our fellow citizens who have health problems as they are, let them go to Slovenia and ask for help in other EU countries as well. I will repeat the question again what about the funds that were to be planned and reserved for the North Development Agreement. Ministers here are not just about Minister Fuchs how you responded to me because the signing of the agreement was made by the prime minister and 7 ministers, so these are projects that are related to the 7 ministries. Here we have our colleagues from the northwest, you have heard it, you have read it, you have been present, you know what has been signed, but here, unfortunately, from 27.12. to this day, no meeting has been held, and there is no initiative by the ministry that this money really is invested in these projects to be invested in. I ask you this on behalf of the residents of 5 northern Croatian counties who are happy to threaten to sign the agreement, and now they wonder why the northwestern is forgotten and why nothing is done under this agreement, why nothing is happening, why the ministry does not respond to meetings, why there is no progress from the signing to today. Just to remind you that there are extremely important projects here, some projects are also related to almost all counties such as. Construction of the fast railway line Čakovac-Varaždin-Bellhead-Krapina-Zabok-Zagreb so-called. No sign of voice since the beginning of any activity on that part. And what the county would like to see is that the sooner we start, unfortunately, so far, nothing is solved. So this isn't the Minister-related Minister of Fuchs, this is about the other minister. You answered me today that there is no Minister Fuchs, so you can't answer these questions to me, but I repeat again the seven ministers who were at the signing of this agreement and in fact these projects refer to the 7 ministries. We have these very important projects that are also related to the growth of the economy, there are educational institutions, there are also health institutions. Let's not forget that this is about just this part of the eye, about these 15.2 billion kuna projects, and then there are 754 million kuna for the economy and industrial transition of the north of Croatia and another 65.5 million kuna for the preparation of project documentation. So that's all missing, I don't see it in the budget, and I'd like to see it, and it would be good if I could get information, so this way, I'm asking you to send me information on what's going on with these projects, where they're in the phase, where the items were planned or not planned at all, or not planned at all. And lastly, I would also ask government representatives and representatives of the ruling majority to stop simply dealing with politics, not to talk about the reforms that are supposed to be implemented anymore, because you know that they will not be implemented, but that you again and finally start to deal with politics and start managing the state and state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111225	Following is the final debate on behalf of Green-left bloc advocates, respected Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111226	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, means several times when we talked about the budget here, we said that what it is for us is crucial to see both the policy and the public policy that the government wants to implement. It is very clear what this government is giving priority, and what it is actually taking away some potential for development. In this regard, although my colleagues and colleagues have already talked about individual items and individual problems, I will say something about amendments because our amendments also express our policy and what we consider a priority. For example, we are asking for an increase in the allocation of assistants from 29 to 35 million kuna for the reason that for almost 8 years, continuing assistants are being financed from the ESF of the European Social Fund and, meanwhile, the number of students who need this type of assistance as well as the number of assistants has increased multiplely. The standards set during this series of years have now become truly a valuable part of the education system and are an important step both in inclusiveness and in equating the educational and social opportunities of our students. For this reason, we believe it is necessary to increase this amount because many units of local self-government do not have the financial capacity to finance the work of the required number of assistants in the follow-up, and then we also have large regional differences where this service is available, and where it is not in case we do not actually have enough funding from the state budget. Another thing that also shows what we are giving priority to as a public policy is that we are looking for an increase in funding for civil protection projects from 2.8 million kuna to 42 million kuna. Because it is clear that the biggest threat to us, the biggest threats are related to climate change and are related to floods, fires and other accidents that we have witnessed for many years. In this respect, we need to strengthen the overall capacity of civil protection and invest in it. We would also like to stress that especially small units of local self-government are not able to develop therefore systems that contribute to civil protection and therefore give this increase absolutely necessary. We also ask for the implementation of the National Plan to combat corruption from 16.5 thousand kuna to 2 million kuna. We don't think that 2 million kunas are enough, but either delete that item from the budget or because really 16 thousand kunas are written to be given to implement a corruption control programme in a country where corruption is perceived as the biggest problem is really funny or we're going to give serious money for it. Now we come up with a phenomenal, phenomenal phenomenon in our budget that really reflects the state of mind of our Minister Banozic. So, let me just tell you how he sees the politics of the defence of the Republic of Croatia. For the development of the cyber capabilities of the Croatian military, he proposed to allocate 8.5 million kuna, while, for example, asking for 10.5 million kuna for spiritual care. Here's what people tell you, it tells you everything where Croatia is and where we are in the century. So cyber security and cyber attacks today are one of the biggest and most real threats that we have, and you have it in the reports of both MORH and SOA and VSOA, but we will not give it any more for spiritual care than for the development of cyber security. In that sense, of course, our amendment goes too. We are also asking to increase from 3 million kuna to 13 million kuna to improve the protection of victims of domestic violence, while these funds are taken with administrative support from the University of Defence and Security. Why the University of Defense and Security? I don't know if you remember when Minister Banozic represented the project here at the university said he didn't need budget funds. How are the budgets now needed? And as much funds as it's supposed to be budgeted. We also ask for the funds to be provided for the introduction of civil education and education, while reducing support to the Croatian Catholic University in Zagreb would also show what the policy of the 21st century of this government is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111227	Following is the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Marina Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111228	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers along with their associates. Here's to the end I promise not to use all five minutes so we can leave a little early today and especially respect all of you who have been here all day in the assembly and followed this debate. Here it is, the first rebalance of this year's budget I'd say nothing new, something we've seen in about the past years, maybe something we can expect in the coming years. Incomes are increasing by over six and a half billion kuna. If we're going to talk a little bit about structure, of course we're looking forward to increasing tax revenues that are the main revenues of any budget. When we look at profit tax, the planned income from profit tax increases by some 900 million kuna. Of course it also outlines certain increased economic activity, i.e. expected economic activity. As for the increase in VAT and the minister explained, and today it was debated whether this led to an increase in inflation and the fact that the basis for the tax return has increased or economic activity. The minister also mentioned on the board yesterday, probably a combination of each other. It's not just inflation. There is also increased economic activity. Of course, this can also be seen through increased and increased employment and wage growth, which is then re-drawn on increased planned revenue from contributions. A happy and billion kunas planned more than EU funding. As for expenditure, of course the most important thing was health care. The minister made it clear that as long as he doesn't get rid of his health structure, we'll have about the same story. It's just that it's been missed initially in budget planning for this year when we brought it in by about 27% last fall. I wouldn't agree with that. In fact, the logic and policy of the Government is clear, i.e. the competent minister, who every year in the budget is actually as much in his capacity as he is trying to say so to trust as much as possible, and then as the year goes, then follow the natural rebalancings that are somehow reflecting and happening throughout the year. So in addition to increasing the resources for health care, for pensions, of course we have an increase in funds caused by some kind of mishap, of course by the situation in Ukraine by Russian aggression. When I finally talked about the budget last fall, too, that I also looked back on potential risks, we had a coronal virus in progress, a smoldering inflation, and somehow we all called for it to be. But there's the devil in the second month who'd have thought he'd be at war, so there's a problem with energy. No one expected it. Of course, it is up to the government and the Ministry to adapt and respond. And then again we have those energy measures that came in this spring, early spring, and we see actually the results of that in this year's budget. I'm glad to see the public service salary rise by 4% again, of course we need to secure the funds for that. I remain responsible for saying that public services have low wages, much lower than they are in the real sector. And the problem is actually to keep and win the highest quality people in public service. I know that from an example of local self-government, and I'll always be on the rise in salary as much as it allows for the budget. I am pleased to see 104 million kunas increase the budget for sport. We somehow know how important it is to us and how much we love to boast about it, and every increase, of course, is commendable. I'll just take a quick look around. There were complaints here that for energy prices to rise, inflation that it was deserved by the government, or the government's mistake, and when something is good, when wages rise, when employment is growing that it's the result of the market. Totally wrong I would say, we cannot say that the policy measures of this and the previous governments are not responsible for the increase in wages and for the increase in employment. And just for a little while, as far as the budget law is concerned. I don't think it's an invisible law, a law that goes under the radar. I would say that to whom a very important law can actually be observed and as some guidance for the use of the budget, modernizes, facilitates actions. That's it. Thank you from me. The HDZ club supports it. But cut it short! [[/Intruder: For a second!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111229	Here's what we've exhausted the debate with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue tomorrow morning at 9.30 p.m. Final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing infrastructure for alternative fuels. SESSEN INTERNAL IN 19.44 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111231	We will now move to the agenda, as we have announced we have a joint discussion on 3 points, these are: - Proposal for amendments and additions to the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and projections for 2023 and 2024, together with the proposal for amendments and additions to the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and projections for 2023 and 2024. And '24. for Croatian Water, Croatian Roads, Centre for Restructuring and Sales, Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency, Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Croatian Highways, HZ Travel and HZ Infrastructure - Final proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022, second reading, P.Z. No. 202 and - Proposal for a Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the year 2021 is proposed by the Government on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution, Article 39. Budget law and Article 211 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and pursuant to Article 109. Budget law. The adoption of the State budget shall be subject to the provisions of Articles 211 and 212. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The final draft of the law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on the Economy and the Defence Committee. I remind you of the article. 38. The budget law whereby all amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed State budget and projections must not exceed the amount of the permitted deficit of the State budget and projection. During the debate on the proposal of the State Budget and projections, amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amounts set out in the State Budget and projections may be adopted provided that a reduction of other expenditures and expenditures in a specific part of the budget is proposed at the same time. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. With this in mind, I warn that only those amendments drawn up under the Budget Law will be referred to the parliamentary procedure. Art. 212. The Rules of Procedure set out that it cannot be voted on the amendments submitted and the budget as a whole before they expire 3 days from the date of the debate. Before I give my word to the respected Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric, we have several requests for a break. First in line is a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111232	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This rebalancing is the result of two facts. The first, indisputable which we all witness from day to day is growing inflation. However, the other thing is that some things, when the budget was passed, are not well planned. When the budget was made very clearly, we said, you did not foresee health care funds to a sufficient extent. The result, the debts are growing, the obligations are not settled and we need to have a rebalance and we still don't predict enough funding, so we can say with certainty now that in the 9th or 10th month we will have other rebalances, and maybe even by the end of the year and 3rd. However, there is another serious problem in this rebalancing, which is the problem of rebuilding, and I would therefore ask the minister to answer one question immediately in his opening statement. Why are the reconstruction funds cut down? We know that inflation has been particularly affected by the rise in the price of construction material, which means that any house that is being renovated will be more expensive than it would have been a year or two ago. To that inflation, instead of raising funds for reconstruction to speed up, we're reducing them. That's why I'm asking you honourable ministers and Vice-President of the Government to answer this question that may be a little bit out of the portfolio of finances, but not from your government vice-presidents and to tell us why the funds are being reduced to the refurbishment fund and to the amount that goes beyond 100 million kuna. And finally, Your Honor, Mr. President, one request to you. Given the vastness of matter and that we haven't returned to those pre-pandemic settings completely, that the time for clubs extends to 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111233	It's already done. And it's self-initiative. [[I'm sorry.]] Nothing. The second one's a colleague of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111234	Thank you very much. Please pause for 10 minutes on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club. Today we have an extremely important topic to discuss, it's a rebalance, but I think the topic of the debate when it comes to rebalancing is going to open up about something else. The topic of discussion will open up the state of our health. There are two winners, if they can call it that, this budget, and those two winners are two ministers whose last name begins on B and who run a dead race which of them will be the worst minister now in this government. It's about Minister Banozic and it's about Minister Beros. If we need to decide who is less capable of doing his job, it is difficult for us to decide who is involved. This budget, or rebalancing, regardless of what is on the subject of the crown and in the topic of war in Ukraine is actually about the problem we have in health care. And the problem we have in health care is not Minister Maric's fault, he's guilty as Deputy Prime Minister, but not as Finance Minister. He's doing technical work here, but the culprits are somewhere else. Somehow it seems to me that it would be polite and elementary that these two ministers were there and that we actually have opportunities and some questions to ask them, but whenever the topic of rebalancing is, we're talking about numbers, and we're not talking about the essence, why we're going into rebalancing and what the topics are. I can't and can't touch the renovation. Who in the public space remembers more that he became a minister named Darko Horvat? It's hard to remember him anymore, and he's guilty of why there's no renewal. And this unfortunate Minister Paladin is fortunately the lights of the public were somewhere else, and he is beneath all of this and through this budget is actually shown to be not going to be, and the last hole on the playing, the valid Minister Paladin's restoration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111235	The apartment is approved. Comrade Troscott, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111236	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and respected colleagues and colleagues. The Mosta Club has calculated for the purposes of this debate today how much damage inflation will actually be in the Republic of Croatia. And we don't see it in the discourses, we don't see it in the debates, we don't see concrete figures of that damage, which, if there's inflation that will present our minister today, in Croatia are about 15 billion or 20 even. And if it goes beyond the two-digit inflation figure, we're going to have an inflation cost of 25 billion kuna, which is somewhere around 5 Peljeka bridges, and nobody's discussing how we're going to do that damage today. That we have a concrete strategy in which we will compensate and how this damage to inflation that awaits us as a whole society will be financed in the future because it always hurts inflation as a whole. That's who she is. And the second thing, the reason we're here today, the main reason is the health rebalancing. So we in this health care have a problem, so the minister is accused of investigating two affairs or more of them. Now this enters the corruption sphere that has been recalculated in Croatia and you have at today's rate the cost of corruption in Croatia is 70 billion kuna. And if we add up these two components today, so the damage to inflation on the one hand we have the cost of corruption that's 90 billion to you, that's half of today's budget that we haven't even started the debate, half the budget. And instead of really dealing with inflation and dealing with corruption, where the minister who apparently affected his paparazzi and his when he had political.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111237	Thank you. The apartment is approved. Comrade Bice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111238	Mr. President of the Assembly, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Focus and Independent MPs requested a break of 10 minutes. Before us is the change and addition of the Republic of Croatia's 2022 budget, I will say that it is also caused by the economic situation, so by the increase in inflation and by, of course, reducing the forecast for GDP growth in Croatia by 2022. It's just that things have turned one way instead of 7% of the growth in the economy, we're going to have two and something, and instead of 2% of inflation, we're going to have almost 7.5. However, when we look at what the money is going to be spent on, what it is to increase it is health-returning the same figures as it was in 2021, the purchase of an anti-aircraft system for our Croatian army after the drone crash and a few other things. I'll say there are a lot of things missing here that are not in any way foreseen in the state budget. In fact, the government of the Republic of Croatia has made measures to support the citizens before the Ukrainian crisis and the Ukrainian war. This state budget does not provide for any additional measures, and that should be the case. With such an inflation increase of 5% and something in January, 9% in April would expect it to be a taste of this budget, that means helping the standard of living of citizenship, pensioners, those who work to help the economy and other parts of the EU are already working on new measures and are already implementing them, and we are standing at zero. And to this end, if we expect it to not cause any earthquakes on a series of special and special parts of the economy like agriculture, and in this case I'm talking about construction that has fixed contracts, that's what's missing, which is missing. and what we expect it to be in the budget, which it isn't. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111239	The apartment is approved. Here you go, fellow Sacic. Comrade Byse, just turn off, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111240	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, we declare and ask for a 10-minute break in order to give all of you colleagues and colleagues a special support. By reading the draft budget rebalancing, we are truly unsettled and found that again this proposal of this important document does not make any significant efforts to improve the work of the DORH, the USKOK for the bodies most responsible for the pursuit of crime in Croatia, nor does it provide them with room for pay raises, nor does the material and technical conditions of work have a declarative all, and in reality their hands are tied and given to the fact that financial and abusers of that obligation by the authorities that they must ensure their resources for unlimited, independent work by the constitution that is guaranteed to them, our Prime Minister, unfortunately even the president of the state are unpunishedly allowed to call and call, call the phone to call the chief state attorney to do so, you must not do this. We need to be sharper and financially secure them to be independent, and then criminally prevent everyone regardless of what authority he maintained if he threatens the state's attorney to end up in prison, as courts are neatly protected in criminal acts, so in recent years we no longer have any more trips from politicians that the court is not worth it, that he's lying, that he's corrupt, etc. in a specific case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111241	The apartment is approved. And here you go, fellow Wolfie.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111242	I thank the chairman. So on behalf of the Club For Fair Croatia I also ask for a break of at least 10 minutes. Today, we need to explain through this agenda point the draft budget rebalance. What is important is to say that our citizens would understand, so the state plans to spend more than 9.2 billion kuna. I'll just point out that the state has collected more revenue from value added tax in the last period of as much as $1.8 billion, when we talk about revenue from contributions there, more than $1.9 billion, I mean that our country seems to have profited in this crisis, and the question is, in fact, how many more of these tax burdens, cuts, levies, gatherings of our citizens and our entrepreneurs can still endure. We expected the state to correct its consumption, however, this is not happening, and I will take advantage of the moment so I will mention that here is the minister, and this minister is part of the ruling ones who presented to us several years ago the method that was supposed to lead to a reduction of 1.5 billion kuna as the Standard Cost method, a method according to Standard Cost model which is actually an internationally recognised methodology that was developed in the Netherlands, which was only meant to lead to a reduction of therefore 1.5 billion kuna and this cost of business to our entrepreneurs, so we should administratively relieve them or administratively relieve our entire economy. That's not what happened. Why do these methods still not apply? Are we aware of the moment in which we live and when we will start using the methods we apply? Developed Member States and lead to savings to citizens. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111243	Thank you, colleague Vukovac. The break has been granted. Here's another request, colleague Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111244	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to show again how the budget rebalance is really needed. In fact, the previous year in 2021 was the year, Covid was the year in which we were very fast and with a very high growth of 10.2% came out of the crisis. However, here is the beginning of this 2022 that led to new geopolitical problems and tensions, which in fact led to certain problems and in supplying energy and inflation growth, etc. All this has actually resulted in this government having to worry further about all the effects that this crisis is causing, and this means taking care of exactly the sustainability of the system, both health and pension, and also helping citizens with those inflationary movements related to energy. Therefore, this budget and this rebalancing are precisely contributing to the fact that citizens and citizens can withstand all these attacks that are actually exogenous and that they cannot really resuscitate themselves. Therefore, this rebalancing proves precisely that it is necessary and that in this way it can be very well managed by the financial situation in the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111245	The apartment is approved. My colleague Posavec the Sinner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111246	Thank you, Your Honor. Like other colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, please pause for 10 minutes. We would like to point out on this occasion that this budget does not come from, this budget rebalance does not stem from the situation in which we are brought into the global situation in Europe in the world this year, but we are already in rebalancing because of the poor planning of this government and the fact that the essential reforms that are necessary for this country are missing. And Minister Maric himself has often said that he has not seen the health reform that Minister Beros has been announcing all along, and it is obvious that there is no unity in the ruling majority about what he is and whether health reform is needed. And if health reform is needed, every year they show us rebalancing and show us budgets when we have to patch holes to actually come to the collection of health claims on stables, as they like to say 120 days for pharmacies, or 180 days for hospitals. So from year to year repeats the same scenario on our rebalancing, we always take money for patching holes in health care, that health care, the system must come to a level of self-sustainability, it must in no way lose quality and availability for our citizens, which unfortunately in recent days and months we are increasingly witnessing in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, we believe as Social Democrats that the private system cannot and must not be an alternative to a good public health system in the Republic of Croatia and that this government, among the first reforms it must implement, is to implement a reform of a sustainable public health system that will benefit all citizens, and not that we will patch from year to year.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111247	Thank you. Now we're gonna take a break by 11 o'clock and 15 minutes. After that, we will be contacted by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. It's 11 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:15 A.M.]] As I announced now, the State Budget Rebalancing Proposal will be presented to us by Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111249	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's at the beginning my apology at the vote, here's everything I've done but I haven't been able to fully return it, but I think it'll hold up, hopefully I'll take the lead to answer all your replicas, or, if necessary, during the debate and all the other questions. And in these explanations of the break, a lot of questions have been raised, I believe, and most of the replicas will refer to health care, inflation. It's also mentioned in the renovations. At first, I will say, therefore, not to reduce the funds for reconstruction, they increase by nearly 300 million kuna when all these sources are looked at and I think that as far as the renovation itself is concerned, I would simply respond to the Law on the implementation of the state budget, we included several provisions and in some way adjusted to make the withdrawal of funds both the Solidarity Fund and the Rehabilitation Fund and those other sources of the state budget as simple, more passing, more efficient as possible. Therefore, it is a very simple sentence regarding the reconstruction of no reduction in funds, although the funds have been increased, but the procedures for the use of certain funds have also been facilitated. A few weeks ago, the government adopted a convergence programme at its session, which, among other things, updated the macro-economic projection for this year. And what we did was done by a number of other actors, and so did the European Commission a few days ago. Fitch Ratings Agency also a few days ago, leading analysts etc. This year's growth projection has been adjusted to a slightly lower level as regards the government from 4.4% to 3%. The main and basic reason for this or two main reasons are on one side a high and higher base last year, because the growth last year was actually above all expectations. 10.2% of GDP growth in Croatia is the second highest growth in the EU. On the other hand, given the still very high level of uncertainty mostly related to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, but also everything related to energy prices, food prices generally announce the rise of interest rates and some greater achievements and, of course, we always retain in our macroeconomic projections a certain level that actually gives us a maneuvering space so that we can react as needed but also do everything possible to reduce these negative repercussions, and positive effects as much as possible. A similar theme and similar arguments can also be used in our inflation rate correction for this year, the average inflation rate, that consumer price index we adjusted to a higher level of 7.8%. As many analysts as I have followed in both Croatia and abroad, this is also the highest assessment of the Republic of Croatia. Realisations of the first four months, on Monday, the State Statistics Institute published data on April and inflation of 9.4% actually confirm that our projection is on real ground. However, as with GDP, there is also a whole series of negative risk factors. In translation, unfortunately, the rate is also in a slightly higher amount. However, of course everything we can and within the scope of the possibility I will speak on behalf of fiscal policy, but I am sure that the monetary policy that is independent, which corresponds to the Croatian Parliament, also thinks about what and how it can be done to ensure, among other things, that these inflational effects, the effects are mitigated because ultimately and the fundamental objective of the Croatian National Bank is to maintain price stability. So not only fiscal policy, but also monetary policy. Based on this macro-economic framework, we have set out to correct, but not only the macro-economic framework, but also the achievement of budget revenues in the first four months, and half of the fifth month is behind us. And based on that, a new framework for the revenue side of the budget was created. Total revenues increased compared to the original plan with 6.6 billion kuna. One note, and with the basis of yesterday's discussion on the parent board which was of great quality, I would like to thank the president, the deputy and all the representatives of both the Assembly and those outsiders who took part in the debate as well as a suitable home budget committee, and according to reports and information from my colleagues and all the other committees have indeed passed in one constructive tone. So what I'm saying is that this rebalancing, like every time we bring you this set and a set of materials, is always in line with the Budget Law that prescribes how and how the tables should look, as compared to what they compare. We have also made one addition to the budget itself, and also one presentation that is publicly available, which you have, I see that many of you have in benches to compare numbers more easily, because we distinguish three let's say so columns or columns. On the one hand, it's the original budget for this year. In the meantime, it is in accordance with the legal powers of certain redistributions that we have made corrected on the current plan, and now we have a new plan, so here is the basis and remarks that we have had in the previous debate on budgets and budget rebalances, and we have improved this way of reporting, so that it is also simpler for you to have the debate, for your presentation on behalf of clubs individually, but also above all, of course for our citizens. 6.6 billion kuna increases compared to the original plan of the revenue side of the budget, of course preceding tax revenues. Now, that's where we come to the most important part, and that's the expense side that we're most interested in with all due respect for the revenue, of course. The spending side, I heard you say nine.2 billion kuna a little while ago when you're only looking at the expenditures from the so-called so-called. General sources. What affects the result of the budget is what we call it according to the accounting final plans 1, 2 and 8. So what we actually collect as general tax revenues and distribute, or as such, have an effect on the overall result. When we look at all the sources, when we add both European funds and our own and dedicated revenues, then it's an increase of 10.9 billion kuna to the total total state budget. You've been working through the ministries, just following up on what I just said about the original plan, the current plan, the new plan. However, in this presentation material, we summed up the most important items, to extract from it all what is really important and to present it to the high home, but also to present it to the Croatian public. So, the biggest increase in, refers to health care. Only in terms of obligations to suppliers, wholesale drugs and everything related to drugs, sanitary material and other 3.5 billion kunas broken between hospitals or pharmacies, so through the ministry or HZZO. You know that HZZO has been out of the Treasury since 2013 and 2014 but has been in a consolidated general state. So I'd say less important. 3.5 billion all together. It is not only that health care is further allocated to funds as well as to education for certain court rulings. There are additional allocations for a clinical hospital center in Rijeka, almost 50 million to get this project, which as much as I can hear in the Primorje-Gorski County and in Rijeka very well and recognized and known so that, in this way and with these means, it will in fact all come together and end up. Also, the second largest item of the increase is pensions and pension incomes, I always clearly want to send messages unequivocally as far as our pensioners are concerned. We spent an indexation of pensions of 2.2% on Friday on the anniversary between the other and the existence of HZMO, the so-called "HZMO". a coloquial energy supplement for pensioners as one of the measures in that anti-inflation package or in terms of mitigation of inflation effects. I believe that many of our parents, grandparents have already confirmed, I've checked, it's sat down. This measure, both in terms of pensions and pension incomes for the second half of the year, is currently difficult to project and say decidated, but very certain that the indexation of pensions will be higher than this first one. And according to that, a clear, unequivocal message to the pensioners as much as possible will provide the funds. Therefore, pensions and pension incomes are never, nor will they be under question as such. In addition, of course, a whole series of things in the budget itself, I will point out that everything related to the Ukrainian crisis also in the rebalancing process whether we are talking about renovating and obtaining additional goods for our goods, not only because of their filling, but also because of the disturbance that is happening in Ukraine as one of the major and agricultural and food factors at global levels, given these disorders are already being seen, and here are the additional disturbances at global levels, and, among other things, we have done certain things, but also in view of the fact that the already significant number and Ukrainian citizens have come to the Republic and that we have taken care of them and that we will take care of them. You know, all the measures the government has said among other things, including the measure that we will subsidise private accommodation and the adoption of Ukrainian refugees. Also, the fourth, major item in terms of rebalancing is our agreement with the unions of state and public services, this time all, all union representatives, or those who are representative, signed a new basic collective or collective contract where 4% of the basics have been recognised, increasing systematic checks, transportation and a whole series of other measures which, with due respect, but financially are slightly smaller volumes but are certainly important to improve the material status of our employees. There are, of course, resources allocated to agriculture, defense and guarantee reserve. I think here's how many times I tried in my 7th year as Minister of Finance and a whole series of budgets and rebalancings I didn't think of a single time that we worked out a guaranteed story, maybe I was wrong, this time we had to take into account the 32m-euro protested guarantee the other day, etc., etc. All those items of interest, of course, feel free to ask, I'll try to answer something. Anyway, let's go back to the total picture. 6.6 billion in state budget revenue. 10.9 an increase in the expenditure of the state budget and only when we look at the state budget is that, as a result, there is an increase in the total deficit for some 4.3 billion kunas. However, extra budget funds, local self-government, is local self-government, regardless of what is not the subject of our debate today and we do not discuss and vote as such, we can of course touch, but they also record significantly better revenues. The investment cycle and some dynamics of achieving the results so far both last quarter and first quarter of this year show that the result will be better and the deficit will be lower, and we also need to make some adjustments for that ESA 2010 system, which is comparable to all EU Member States. Now when all this is summed up, consolidated and adapted to our total deficit of the general government by the ESI, that's that main data growing from 12 billion to 13.4 billion kuna. So from 2.5% of gross domestic product to 2 commas or 2 whole 8%. We believe in government as we have since 2016, each year one of our united points is budget implementation 2021, so I'm going to spend one brief sentence on it. Every year and even in that very pandemic 2020, we achieved a budget better than we expected. Last year, compared to the last rebalancing of the 4.1% of GDP deficit, the deficit was 2.9%. So, what I ordered yesterday and on the parent board, I'm going to say now. Of course, we will do everything possible to make the budget better, you know, with extra income, and all these years ourselves, we have wisely focused on tax discharge and on reducing the share of public debt and, in general, on public debt, and we have kept the expenditure despite all the possible challenges that we have faced, we have actually kept within the scope of what we originally predicted. I always end up with that picture or graph about a public debt that speaks much more than all of my word muffled but it actually shows that in all these years we have a constant path towards reducing the share of public debt in GDP, the only exception is in 2020 where we had a one-time increase effect due to the pandemic year. A short time ago, a respected representative of the Troscott, among other things, told about these calculations regarding the cost of inflation. It's really hard to quantify all of this together, and we're doing it that way, or we're going to do the calculations, but just as far as COVID is concerned, to this day, 42 billion kuna, 42 billion kuna, the direct cost of the state budget, just the state budget. They know entrepreneurs and businessmen, they know how much all of them cost. I'm just talking about 42 billion kunas that COVID cost us the beginning of the outbreak of the pandemic itself of the state budget. And in line with these challenges, and many others, fiscal policy when you look at, say, reports... which, a few days ago, has kept us the historic highest credit rating, so triple B, one step even more than that level of distinction between below investment and investment, with positive prospects where it is very clear, if you do not fail, and I deeply believe that we will not, however, think that we will be better in fiscal policy than these figures and, of course, if the process of introducing the euro continues as planned and there is no significant delay and we also believe that it will not continue to do so, that is, to continue in accordance with our plans, the credit rating will be further improved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's what I'm telling you, among other things, that when we talk and some retrospective of all these years and many of our discussions that have always been extremely constructive and I've always enjoyed discussing and talking about them, but you actually see what kind of confirmation we have among other things on the international agenda, because these are still institutions that don't look at only Croatia, they look horizontally at the whole world, all countries and they know very well what is and how and how this is happening, and here is this new crisis which is clear that it is also global, is not Croatian inflation in any specific way. The latest data also, we're back somewhere in the middle again, when you've been looking at the past 12 months. something slightly above average, however, we must not just say that finding and the fact that nothing can be done, so we went with a package of measures that is also recognised in this rebalancing because many measures, most measures, in fact, have actually entered almost everything on April 1st this year and all of this has been implemented together and implemented through the budget rebalancing itself. A very important point with this rebalancing itself is and the law on the implementation of the state budget, it's usually, we don't spend too many words but here's the time that's left I'm going to spend on it, on the implementation of the budget, I think I actually said about last year, that we have a much better result than we expected, but who's interested, of course, and who has a greater interest, feel free to ask. The law on the implementation of the state budget that always goes traditionally with the budget itself or rebalancing, we originally wanted to change it once more this year before the rebalancing itself for one simple reason, has been implemented by the new budget law that you voted for, which has brought some new improvements and improvements to the system itself. Now, and because we have a new law and some new moments of the whole series of provisions, the law itself has been corrected, so it's not really any changes or additions, but a new law on the implementation of the state budget for this year, so, among other things, it's been further regulated to take on multi-annual commitments on the burden of the budget, it's exactly the respected agent Grbin, one of the things I said and the renewal proposal, and we've made it as much easier and simplified, or improved the efficiency and efficiency, the passing of the use of funds, as I repeat once again, the Fund for Reconstruction, and the Solidarity Fund and other sources. Also, additional arrangements are being made for advances, the foundation and our experiences so far, relations with a number of budget users in the Ministry of Finance, we have adapted certain provisions. The possibility of calling a public call, a very important item, the state guarantees may not be able to reach all of them now, but I will try through other replicas, yesterday she was on the parent committee discussing the issue, on the one hand, the HAMAG and HBOR get the powers to issue guarantees for the name and account of the Republic of Croatia which are well related to the use of the resources of the National Resistance and Recovery Programme. After an advance of 800m euros and some million euros, we will receive or receive in 6mm. among the first countries because we met 34 measures, an additional 700 million. We continue with this dynamic and can freely say that we expect another 700m euros in December at the end of the year. HBOR and HAMAG will be important levers for the use of these funds, however, as far as guarantees are concerned, an additional billion euros has been provided, in fact, all of a billion and 100 million euros to provide energy supplies for the next heating season. We work very hard on this and this model when we make up everything we will present, but in principle, our energy players above all, HEP in this way enables a healthy company to make it possible, with a state guarantee of liquid assets from credit institutions, to supply gas because in this season between the two heatings, this is done among other things to ensure adequate supply. The prices, unfortunately, are much higher, but we're also monitoring some kind of movement of these so-called. forward and future contracts apply in the last quarter and in the first quarter of next year. If certain losses are achieved, and we think they will, on the expenditure side of the budget there is an item, an amount of 75 million, whether or not it will be enough, in this moment it is less important, it is important that the item is there and will cover any losses. Opening an account, running a state budget, here's another 7 seconds, I can only thank you for your attention and, of course, I look forward to all of your replicas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111250	Here it is, we have 34 replicas, so you can explain the rebalancing for at least 34 minutes. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111251	Thank you, Mr. President. I have no doubt that, regardless of the vote, my colleague Maric will be able to do so because this is a very important debate and it is very important that you are here and that you are talking about these issues, but I am reluctant to do this, but I must correct you. According to this morning's published EUROSTAT monthly inflation in April in Croatia is the fourth highest in Europe. That's not an average. But let me because you are also the Deputy Prime Minister and this is also a political, not just a financial act to ask you to answer three very specific questions. Support for entrepreneurs due to the inflation and Ukrainian crisis, other countries have begun to give them. My question is when will Croatia come? New anti-inflation measures? Three months ago we went out with a package, he's already agreed we'd gone out of date because the prices went up. Other countries started with a new package. When are we going? And lastly, you expected when we'd finally do something concrete that this By galloping the growth of debt in health care, it stops. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111252	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111253	Thank you very much. So, as regards support for entrepreneurs unlike covid support, where I would say most of it was directed towards entrepreneurs to preserve jobs in these measures as regards mitigation of effects, I use it on purpose because we are all aware that it is impossible to neutralize inflationary expectations, i.e. inflator pressures, that we can only mitigate. There is a greater emphasis being placed and is on the socially most vulnerable groups of people because energy and food in their baskets are not rarely very often actually the only items we call them so unlike some others. However, what we will continue to do and how we will act depends, of course, on the further development of the situation. We're not going from month to month. These measures have come into force on 1.4. We follow, of course, what other countries are doing, and we follow that in some other countries some of these measures have also been closely linked to their election cycles. However, I will say again, as we have so far reacted, so we will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111254	Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111255	Your Honor...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111256	Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111257	Your Honor, Mr. President, I have a note regarding Article 238. The Honorable Vice President and the Minister did not answer certain things, but only one thing about support. It is the European Commission, not only the President of the Commission, but also Commissioner Gentilloni, who pointed out that they now have to send support to entrepreneurs, not only to preserve jobs, but also to preserve their entrepreneurial activities. And imagine what kind of situation our entrepreneurs will find themselves in, if other countries are to provide such support, and we are not.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111258	Thank you. Comrade coat of arms, here's a warning. You said it yourself, but I'm calling on others not to do it now because we have 34 replicas and a lot of space to discuss, so don't even use this thing that isn't necessary yet. Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111259	Dear Minister, here are the figures regarding public finances that are not very good for us and for the external factors, but the fact is that we have slow GDP growth in projections. The fact is we're going to have a deficit greater by 1.4 billion and the fact is that we have a historically high rate of inflation for April of over 9.4%. On the other hand, we have internal factors, which is our health system, which is unfortunately a terminally severe patient. Do you still feel that it is wise to enter the euro zone in this situation, or that it will improve for euro area citizens, or that the next budget, or budget rebalance, will be very similar to this, only instead of the kuna, will write the euro.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111260	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111261	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we discussed the Law on the Euro last week, so most of these, this second part of your replica, and I answered the questions about the benefits and potential shortcomings, i.e. defects. I'll briefly refer to that subject with the part you said when you said they weren't great. So I think that these figures actually speak best among other things and the European Commission's assessment, so with the fact that we were the second most, means the country with the second highest GDP growth rate last year we are among those countries that had the most, the strongest reduction in the share of public debt in GDP. And when you look at the budget for last year and you look at the budget for this year, I think it really puts us back at the top among the Member States. I'm sorry that Mr. and colleague Grbin came out, so I'm going to connect another comparison with European countries. All the measures we put into that first anti-inflation package, the mitigation is an assessment of their effect over one percentage point of GDP. The European Union average is 0.6 Even the European Commission has said they are very generous. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111262	Comrade Sablar-Dračevac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111263	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister before you means somewhere in the fall of 2020, I've asked you a parliamentary question. It took you almost a year to write me an answer. You wrote the answer on page five, but you didn't answer my question. So, I'm curious about the excise tax laws that you know very well that lex specialis should be transferred to health care. If that billion and a half, two, I think I'm answering now because I didn't get the answer. If I got an answer, I could tell you precisely whether it was directed immediately into health care, if you were aware of how much less complications we would have and how much less debts we would have, I mean, yes, debts are really representative but it would be drastically less if people could plan the funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111264	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111265	Thank you very much. Yeah, obviously it took us a long time to answer, it's not a simple subject and it's not a simple question. Now you're trying to fight me again with my colleague Beroshe, but it's not my relationship with my colleague. All Ministers of Finance and Minister of Health I think they have in the past, and I would say in the future the same relationship. That provision that stands is something that we truly deeply believe should never have existed inside, that only health care is bound by the tax law provision. In any other tax act, it does not relate to the tax regulation of any kind. Anyway, I'll remind you so last year we had a $9.1 billion transfer from the state budget to health care, much more than this number you're talking about. Was that all enough? It's not. That's why I'm always saying the solution to the health issue, it's the same respected representative of the coat of arms I haven't been able to answer, the Ministry of Finance's position has always been and will be that the solution is primarily on the cost side. The future side will contribute, but the cost side is critical.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111266	Comrade Lerotić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111267	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, as you said and saw, incomes are certainly growing, but expenditures are even more and again bearing bad news with a new deficit. However, I would ask a concrete income issue. In Pula, we have an area called Muzil, which makes up a fifth of the total area of the city of Pula. There are all spatial plans to potentially put this into a concession that, and a space that can question certainly over a billion kuna investments. So I'm curious why, when the state obviously can't solve the problem of expenditure doesn't do everything to valorize the valuable assets it has that will generate and the revenues from concessions and incomes from VAT and new employment and therefore resulting in income from the state budget because I'm sure it's your own personal land to look at how to use it, and when we talk about state land, it's unfortunately soldiers who keep it and watch how grass grows.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111268	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111269	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I really can't disagree with your remark. I can talk about general nature, I'm not familiar with individual projects. I'm always about to put every kind of property, mostly of course and state into an adequate function. So, as far as your questions are concerned, or your observations, whether it's better to stand something up or something in some function, the answer is, I think of myself as such. And I'm going to forward your replica and your inquiry to the rest of the matter and to the Ministry of Resort. What kind of cooperation is and what kind of communication is at the level of the resolution ministry with local self-government, we'll check to see if it's in any way and what's actually as planned. However, what I'm saying is the general observation is precisely that one should be among other things where it can be placed in an adequate manner of property into operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111270	Comrade Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111271	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected ministers and vice presidents in the government, as you yourself have said despite all the challenges that have met us from the crown to the Covid crisis to the earthquakes that have done financial damage like 3 crowns, and you yourself have stated that, in spite of all the challenges that have cost us more than 42 billion kuna so far, we still have a record number of employees as many as 42,000 more compared to last year and 80,000 more employees compared to the same time proposed. This rebalancing provides additional funding for salary growth, which has already increased by 32% in the government's mandate, for the further growth of pensions that grew between 20% and 26% in the government's mandate. And also what I want to especially praise is KBC Rijeka, the clinical hospital center that is the biggest investment in I especially commend Croatian health care [[Intruder: Thank you.]] additional funds for that. [[Intruder: Comrade Buric thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111272	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111273	Thank you, well-respected MPs, here as I am, and in the introduction I will start from this last part somewhere 48 million kuna is all expensive additional funds for KBC Rijeka secured. As far as the labour market is concerned, here I would say one thing that I would very much like to do in the Croatian Parliament, and also in the public for a long time, of course not only because of the crisis, first of all, of the pandemic, but also these others, of all of these macroeconomic indicators that we normally read, I'm the one who talks about them most often, we actually come down to the ones that are actually the most important. And that's the employment rate, and that's the level and level of pay, or standard of living. And here, of course, whatever we do, we always need and we can strive for better and higher because in the end, that's the only way we can solve and solve the key challenge of the Republic of Croatia, these are demographic issues. And at the same time, demographic issues can't be solved without a strong economy that speaks among other things and says at least entrepreneurs that the labour market is something, that is, labour force which requires improvement and improvement. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111274	Thank you. Comrade Vukovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111275	I thank the chairman, respected ministers, so Croatia also has a problem with having only 3.9 million inhabitants, and we have 4.1 million insurance companies in the HZZO, only 1.6 million of them are paying additional insurance, not reforming the more serious pension system itself, Croatia is a problem and billions that disappear in various suspicious incentives and subsidies, therefore public procurements in which we cannot notice that they are included in the top private sector itself, along with assistance and politics. We are paying more and more support in agriculture, and we are increasingly producing, whether these are serious problems for you, for which we are expecting some changes soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111276	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111277	Thank you well-respected MPs, so surely what you've listed doesn't reach everything and answer in a minute, but wherever and if any way is recorded that the funds are not used in accordance with some legal provisions of course there are certain legal mechanisms. But beyond that, I'm always about to make certain items that are all the way they should be legally implemented to be questioned among other things. You are, as a representative, always in your argument, let's say you mention the segment of agriculture. I think that here we can agree that many of these support all these years paid and given in agriculture have received certain results, but I think we can agree that it can certainly go where and where better because it is ultimately the global level of figures confirming Croatia's comparison with the RU. Just yesterday, Minister Vukkovic and I had one meeting with representatives of the agricultural sector and there, among other things, the same on that trail of speech, as well as in what way to improve an existing system. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111278	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111279	Thank you very much. Ministers, you spoke of energy, I would only briefly say that the current government boasts in your government that you are the vice president that 10% has accumulated energy in this crisis that we are the best in the EU. However, you very cleverly put it through HEP to local self-government, i.e. to the water lines so that it accumulated electricity in the water lines so that we could pump to the pool, so that in the mountain-mounted mountains we could pump water and that households could get and the economies you had collected no less than 500% with the fact that you had questioned the water supply to our households at all, mainly mountain-mounted areas. So how do you describe it that now as a majority owner in Sinj, I tell your plumber to pay exactly as last year 170,000 kunas of war plus 10% of kuna, and that's how I'm going to do it. And you come and turn it off. The electricity, so let Split have no water, no water [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] A sonic, cetinal end because it's a lie and a deception you covered up lies. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111280	Here's your answer. Please, Comrade Bull, you've been gone for 10 seconds. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111281	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your rep. I mean, as far as energy and energy prices are concerned, I don't think in Croatia who hasn't raised the price, starting from us individuals through entrepreneurs who, unlike citizens, don't have the kind of regime we have, but have, as a rule, contractual relations with individual distributors, thus already mentioned by HEP or gasmen etc., etc. and, in line with the new circumstances, these adjustments have taken place among other things. So it's all going back into the sphere of total inflation pressures on the side of the energy that we've tried and with this package that's gone into effect to ease. But we were as aware then as we are now that they cannot be fully neutralized as such. And what is certainly important is that within those legal provisions that we have and constitutional principles, which is primarily competition, we all behave responsibly only this problem can be solved jointly, and those who think that they can benefit a little bit more from something, I think it should still be put a little on the side.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111282	Thank you. A fellow Bull's injure of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111283	Thank you very much, President. The minister has injured the officer. 238th disdaining MP. 500% raised power for the water supply, 500%. An example of 2 million and 200 last year is now at 10.5 million in this year, and while you're doing it at the same time you tried to use teleopers from eight kunas to reduce to 2.40, to give them 300, 400 million in your pocket, they barely robbed our infrastructure. with the help of... [[Bulj fellow President: Thank you very much.]] Mudrinic, governments.../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111284	Thank you very much for getting your warning, colleague Bulj. You are getting a warning. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111285	What are you yelling at, warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111286	You've been warned.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111287	Jesus got them so look at Boric... I'm telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111288	Come on, buddy Bull, calm down. Let's go... colleague Boric, please stop throwing each other away. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's move on, Comrade Mazhar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111289	Thank you very much, President. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister of Finance. On the revenue side of the budget, which is extremely important for Croatian citizens, we see a strong step in the rapid withdrawal of agreed eu funds, in particular more than 58 billion kuna is paid to the Republic of Croatia, which is more than 70% of all contracted funds. But what is very important over the past week, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said that, thanks to the implementation of the 34th reform of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a prerequisite was created for the first 700m-euro war by the end of June, and 34 reforms include reforms and public administrations and the fight against corruption and health and education and energy and waste management and energy efficiency a building that shows everything the government does. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111290	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111291	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A lot of things I sign daily, and here is the parliamentary question after a year and a few days and a number of negative opinions from the Ministry of Finance. This was one of the memos that I was very pleased to sign, and that is the fact here is the Secretary of State of the County who has been operating amongst other things along with the special adviser of the Prime Minister to make this NPOO, but what we said and then one is one challenge to make it, more importantly to start implementing measures and that is actually what should certainly mention 34 of the 34 measures by the end of last year that we sent to the evaluation, confirmed. Here you have quoted yourself, paraphrased the words of the President of the European Commission, and the 700 million will arrive at us at the 6th month. With that dynamic, of course, we'll keep going. Otherwise, a few days ago, we were communicating the same information when you look at our beginning of our membership, 49.1 billion kuna, more Croatia has been coming in than it has paid in the EU budget. Add NPOO 55.2 billion. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111292	Thank you very much. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111293	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister. The fall will be challenging, it's actually all now the indicators are going according to inflation in the fall, the question is specifically so you said yourself that we've somehow spent this VAT law where you wanted to wait for entry into the euro zone. Please, if you can share here today with us two information, what are some other measures that Croatian citizens might expect in the autumn? It's very concrete that these measures are still going to be autumn I think they'll be much more challenging and not just because of the price of two-digit energys, the price of food just to calm the citizens in the fall, we're always kind of afraid of that autumn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111294	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111295	Yes, thank you very much, Your Honor. You said all right, of course not only in terms of some seasonality within the year, but autumn brings with it after a little vacation who manages to rest, yet the full start of the school year, announcements and general expectations of winter and heating, etc. and then, of course, in this context, we need to consider and further measures. I think as we have so far so can be expected still. The focus of all today is tomorrow possible measures, because I can't do them right now, and I don't want to announce them, and we talk about them, and when it's ready when and if it is, we're going to present them, but focus will certainly be food and energy, so that's two key measures. So these measures that you quoted and mentioned the VAT Act here for a month and a half days have been amended, VAT rates have been reduced and we know very well that we are going to shops to buy what the effects of that are and whether only a good measure of something is giving up in terms of the state budget if it has no effect on the citizens. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111296	Comrade Puljak, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111297	Well, here's the Honorable Minister, I'm actually worried about your health, I see that you've snuck up, just wondering if that's the result of you yelling at meetings all the time, enough is enough, can't it, is it? I don't know. Let me give you that one shirt. That's enough. Well, you're going to meetings with that shirt or for another reason, and you're saying don't fight me with Minister Beroshe, so I think we should have a fight with Minister Beroshe, not just you, but the Prime Minister, because the man obviously doesn't do his job well. You said you were a 7-year-old minister, probably all those seven years you've been hearing the same suggestions, and from even the Committee on Fiscal Policy that says we always need reforms in health, so here I'm asking you actually where is the limit of your patience, when is enough? Last year, 6.4 billion additional unplanned funds have been poured out, this year, here's four, who knows how long it's gonna be till the end, who knows how long it's gonna be, so where's your patience limit? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111298	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111299	Thank you very much and thank you very much for your consideration, it's all good but the voice, it's all good, it's all good, so I'll quickly recover to the amendment vote, I think it'll all be normal, but in any case, I don't think you can hear me and you understand me well, so as far as health is concerned, always for the last few years is the biggest part of our debate and comes down to the health issue, I don't really have anything new or any more to say in relation to all of this and now I'm saying, and it's clear that we health care system preserve as such we have, the pandemic has opened up to all of us even more eyes how important the public health system is, but also, the financial sustainability of the same and the height of the demographic images of doctors, nurses, technicians, the quality of services to all of us as citizens and the whole system as well as such. So, of course, I'll pass on your messages to my colleague Beros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111300	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111301	Thank you. Dear Minister, we in one, we from Most, in one awkward position that what we're saying, to prove true for a few years, means with a delay of 2, 3 years, so we warned HDZ and SDP in electing constitutional judges, see now who they elected in the Constitutional Court. We warned you and the government about inflation, then Minister Coric claimed that we are on call catastrophes, we now see that the forecasts are much worse, even than what we were saying. They also spoke and warned the government that it should not go in the direction of lockdown, not only to the government but also to the left opposition, so with the closure we see, you are saying what the consequences of such policies are for the state budget. I ask you if you are aware of what kind of Croatian citizens currently live in who have paid 5, 6000 kuna, are you aware that they cannot connect the end with the end, that they cannot survive the month and what will the government do?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111302	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111303	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Of course, your position now that you are in opposition, when you are no longer part of the parliamentary majority has changed significantly, and then all your warnings here you can characterise them, that you said something good, right and the like. It's our responsibility to act and we do and we do, so I have nothing special to say to you. So, the inflation at which someone warned or said, so it was very clear and many days ago it was very clear that the growth of interest rates was determined in some way and unmistakable and long before the energy crisis of inflation itself because for many years we lived in a period of historically low interest rates, monetary layoffs and we simply knew all together and well, not only the professional and scientific economic public, but that period must come as such, however, I repeat again, unlike you who, you can allow yourself to warn, we must act and do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111304	A fellow Grmo, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111305	Yeah, he's hurt. 238, because it turns out the minister says that in opposition we speak one thing in government another. These constitutional judges, the godfather of Branko Bačić, Sheparovic, this Mlakar, who falsely presents himself in Austria, were elected while we were part of the government, elected together by HDZ and SDP, and we said as part of the government that this was not a good way. So we also speak as part of the government and as part of the opposition and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111306	And there's a warning. Let's move on, Comrade Begonja, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111307	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, this year is by far unpredictable, the war in Ukraine, the border, refugees from Ukraine, the presence of COVID, inflation, etc., the government of the Republic of Croatia has helped citizens, employees, entrepreneurs and here recently the increase of the foundations of state and public officials. It also helped pensioners to cope with the inflation of energy - related movements above all. I am interested in what effect this can have in this time ahead of us, on the stability of the state budget if we continue to help, if there is a need and what effect can it have on the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111308	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111309	Thank you very much. Your Honor, counsel. Well, here's a few times actually, when you promote it I've talked about it but when you promote and now the replicas that have been sent so far, you have on one side and of course through the replicas, the demands to increase the separation from the state budget, then at the same time, be careful whether public finances are sustainable, is the deficit increased, if we're going to be able to serve all of this. Now, that's all in place, I'd say and our responsibility as a government is to balance it all together. We spoke countless times, and this was confirmed, when the pandemic broke out, all of this sort of thing that I don't say, curtains and some of the dots that existed in public finances were removed, where public finances were constantly said to be their own purpose. They confirmed exactly the opposite, that is, what we kept saying, that we had been doing and doing in order that today-to-morrow when the crisis broke out, we could react and that happened, 42 billion kunas where no one could have expected such a thing to happen, and the state budget, or fiscal policy, stopped. As well as any subsequent crisis, of course, we would have to be aware of both the limitations and the frequency of these same crises. It's not easy, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111310	Thank you. Comrade Greek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111311	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you mentioned something in the introduction about wages and pensions, but the harmonisation of 4% wages in inflation conditions last month was over 9%, so it doesn't cover 50% of the loss to say, purchasing power pays. On the other hand, pension correction in the first term of 2.24% is practically one quarter of inflation. So 75% is a loss of pensioner's purchasing power. And I really appeal to you, I know about what you're going to answer because you said it in the introduction, but I'm appealing for a particular model to be found in particular for the pensioners, with regular alignment once again in the second half of the year helping these people because it's a really difficult situation for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111312	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111313	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So one of the measures in this package of inflation-relieving effects was actually the same focus on pensioners. I'll say it again as I did in the previous line, in line with the overall general possibilities. None happier than either of you or all of you who are present here so that we can narrow down our pensions more and change or fix those relationships that we very often talk about, what is the ratio of the average salary, the average pension, what is the ratio of the number of employees, the number of pensioners, what is the average retirement rate in the Republic of Croatia, etc., etc. So these are all certain things you need, I'd say, consider. When you say pay, I have to react the following way. You've been watching for a year now. Yeah, that's how we discussed it with the unions. Let's watch the periodicals. Since 2016, we do not think that time begins, but you yourself, too, were then in the government, did not correct prices at all, that is, the amount of wages to state and public officials. Compare how much gross, net wages, nominal and real wages have grown.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111314	Thank you. Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111315	Minister Maric, six months ago here in the assembly you assured us that you would achieve savings in the health system by 5.3 billion kuna, although it was quite clear that there is no standstill in this because it cannot result from any health reform that is not available and could not be expected at all that hospitals will reduce health debts. On the contrary, we now see that at the monthly level health debt increases by 400 million kuna. You are now proposing with this budget that this item for health care be increased by 3.5 billion kuna for debt recovery and the financing of increased costs, but you are still hiding the fact that nearly 3 billion kunas remain, which are still unsettled, and the outstanding debts, which are still not shown in the budget. My question to you is, as long as you maintain this collapse of the health system and how long will you send a message to the public that there is no money in the health care system for medicines, but there is no money for suspicious jobs from the Ministry of Health?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111316	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111317	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I really don't think I did it because I certainly wouldn't do it, convince you of something about health care, I'm not the health minister. I answer as a rule to your questions and replicas as well as to many media and for longer than any subject, most I deal with, among other things, health care, but I'm acting as Minister of Finance. So I have to look at the financial sustainability of that same system and as you said in previous replicas, and it's my job and my responsibility when we get to this situation to secure these funds. Am I glad? It's not. I've said that many times. Many times and the only solution we see and all the time we advocate is to make an adequate and quality reform that will reduce this pressure on the revenue side that you do not think Minister Maric or his team is paying for something. That's what we all pay together as taxpayers. Now, and that is why it is necessary on the cost, distribution side, for the 3rd time today, I will probably say, a few more times, my personal attitude, as well as how to achieve the long-term financial sustainability of the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111318	Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111319	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, Your Honor. I also have to refer to health care because, of course, this rebalance shows what problems we're in. A few years ago, I gave you a pack of C vitamins and C vitamins to help you, it'll be better for you, but I don't know what will help our health care, or what I'd like to know, you said a little over a year ago that if, when it comes to health care, if there's any dynamics like this, then you've referred to yourself, we're in the same place for a year, we haven't done anything. I'm afraid your words were not prophetic but true, but worse. What do you do? What do you do? How's that? Because only in half a year will you come, or you will go to the end of the year for the next rebalancing, we know that you and I, next year, or the end of the year will be the new budget, and we haven't done anything in healthcare. So I have a feeling, no matter how much money there is never enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111320	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111321	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm going to thank you once more for that box, she helped, but obviously it's not this next sentence right now, so I'm looking for the next box, but obviously I spent everything in the box, at least according to my voice, it's heard, there's no vitamin C or calcium, it's all gone. In any case, this, similar or simple or the same as in the previous replica and many others, and I can talk about the mandate of this government, on several occasions these resolutions were carried out, more or less on the income side, we had even one situation when for the first time, I think, in Croatian history, we spent a resolution without increasing the public debt and impacting the deficit because we found a whole series of other savings to give the health incentives. And then, like now, we stay more or less on the same and again the same solution and result and I see on the cost side.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111322	Comrade Cappelly, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111323	Your Honor, your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister. The revenues from tourism last year were about 9 billion foreign tourists, if we add up another 1 billion cca domestics we come somewhere to 10 billion and in 2019 they were somewhere with domestics about 12 billion. So it's probably how you calculated the revenues that could be generated this year by the base of fiscalized accounts, you can see this increase, and it's certain that there will be a serious reaction. I would say on this occasion that a very serious calculation, based on the opening, is Schengen space, to count somewhere between 5% and 7% will increase traffic, i.e. activities in tourism. Also, I'm curious a little bit about how they'll resist and the way, we know that the mechanism of reducing inflation is the increase in interest. Will that also reduce investment in tourism? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111324	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111325	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I went to check the fiscalization data right away. Okay. I mean, the tourist season, you know very well as a minister, a former tourism minister who thinks about it, not only in that position but in general. These first 5.5 months in the tourism total may not be so significant, but still, indicators where, when compared to last year, the index of 254 actually says that it is a very good achievement. However, we want and, of course, we will do everything in spite of all these challenges to reach this level of pre-crisis 2019 this year, we were fully aware of that when Covid broke out, that tourism, as well as some other service activities, will suffer the greatest damage and that it will take the longest time to recover as such. But this is a very good point that you said in the second part of your replica, and that's the question of interest rates. I think it's my job and my responsibility to both tourist actors and their investment cycles to send unequivocal messages. Optimism but with argument, which is that despite everything, and this announced increase We need to do everything we can to keep the investment cycles going. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111326	Comrade Kovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111327	I thank the Honorable President, Your Honor. The specific question, here, I've studied that budget a little bit. I'm curious, you know yourself that for a few years now we've been talking about the Center for Education and Education in Čakovec, it's reduced by almost 3 million in this rebalancing, I'm afraid at the end of the year when you're going to do another rebalancing or not being used. You yourself know that, specifically now, former Minister Mr. Horvat, you and I have agreed, two years ago it must have been a specific meaning for the opening of the work of that center. So far, it hasn't moved from the dead spot and anything else I'm interested in, when you were talking about following what other countries are bringing in as measures in the environment, especially as regards energy and food, food products, I'd draw your attention that here, look at neighbouring Hungary where today you have a situation for the residents of Međimurje to go tank and drive fuel cars that can be fueled save up to 400 kuna per tank, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Let's not talk about how much cheaper they are. [[Thank you very much.]] These live supplies. [[Intruder: Comrade Kovac, thank you very much. Here's your answer.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111328	Thank you, Your Honor, for the Center for Education and Education, I immediately think of it, and I see also a representative from Slavonski Brod, Milan Amruš School and similar examples of MPs, also, Pracina from Brod, me personally, therefore, a generic response. As far as we're concerned, we'll secure the funds, we think they're good projects. However, clear conditions need to be created for their fulfillment. I can't, I don't know all the details now, the permits, relations with local self-government, whether there are any objections, whatever, so as such, it's important, among other things, that this item in the budget as such stands, if the dynamics of realisation are accelerated, there will be financial resources, we're not talking about billions here, we're not talking about health care, we're not talking about some reason that we should go into rebalancing or not go into rebalancing, but rather just finishing these projects. Here's the already mentioned school of Milan Amrus is really think all over, I'd say, come to the point of simply saying we should do it, period.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111329	Comrade Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111330	Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, I have to admit, a little government in this world in four months admits to being incompetent. You did it, and now the question, if you admit what you wrote in the budget in 4 months, admit it's not feasible, and you've been warned, it's about health care, you've admitted that you're incapable of managing the system as you predicted. But I have another question, and what you do is try to explain to the citizens who make $4.5,000, who fill the budget that's worth 6.5 billion more than they say, solidarity, you gave 600 million to help with energy, what happened to the rest of the money, and what happened to those additional 4 billion deficits that are emerging, and it encourages the economy that should be the key to where They're getting people's salaries, not at all. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague Brumnic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111331	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111332	Thank you, Your Honor, this first part really has nothing to comment on and go back and forth and ask you when you were doing rebalancing and when you work, I don't know right here in the City of Zagreb or anything like that, but I'm not going to say about this second di. As for the measures to help the economy, I was just talking about it, unlike Covid, where the greatest emphasis was on entrepreneurs, here are on the socially most vulnerable groups of the population put an emphasis. However, also aware that by reducing the rate, say VAT, you don't have to fully hit the target you're targeting because it's not just up to you, cut the tax. Also for other measures. And what you're talking about, of course, is that, as such, it's not easy between the other and the measure that you've put into operation, its full effect as such to see and realize the results anyway, but I think that without these measures, the effects on inflation would unfortunately be even bigger and worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111333	Here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111334	... He's hurt his ankle. 238 insulting me personally because he is aware that the budget in the City of Zagreb, when it was passed, I have several times warned about the things that the City of Zagreb did, which you directly approved because you were the ones who approved of the City of Zagreb because you were the ones who approved.../incomprehensible/... indirect responsibilities of the City of Zagreb because you were the ones who approved the de facto concessions in the City of Zagreb that we see today as having passed, and I am personally you. [[Specially enabled.]] Warned. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much. A colleague, a colleague...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111335	Brumnic, you're getting a second warning. ... Because it's... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] First, let's do this, first a little bit, a little bit, calm down. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So first of all, you've replicated, Minister, the Vice-President of the Government has done nothing to offend you, I guess everyone here is present and everyone watching TV sees it and knows it. So you've now used the breach of the Rules of Procedure to replicate it, and that's why you've been warned, here. ... And my colleague Brumnic, come on, please, so anyone can be offended when someone makes a statement that doesn't suit him. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, come on, then don't be there if it bothers you so much. Let's move on. Comrade Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111336	Thank you, well-respected president of HS, Your Honor, here's the opposite, of course, of course he'll say the opposite side is expected. I think that the government has been faced with a number of difficulties indeed, and this budget has been particularly affected by an increase in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare as well as by the government's financial difficult measures to mitigate inflation and increased energy prices. 157 million were directed to improve the business of social care institutions. Compensation for the threatened electricity buyer 263 million, and what many others in particular, and what I particularly want to stress is that there are increased and secured funds for the implementation of individual activities activities from European funds. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111337	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111338	Thank you, well-respected MPs for that, both on the replica and on the fact that you just recognized what I was saying. That offered by facts and expectations that inflation pressures are about to affect everything, indeed all layers of society, but that in some relative sense it will have a stronger effect on the most socially endangered. And that is why we have tried to respond to them as much as possible, but still aware of the fact that we cannot fully protect or protect anyone, we see both the situation in other countries. All measures, I will repeat once again when you are looking at the entire package that the European Commission has finally verified and in some way characterised as among the more generous because our weight package is over 1 and, 1% of GDP, compared to the 0.6 average, is actually the most talked about. But aware of all the circumstances, the uncertainty, the challenges, of course we can't find out that's what we've done, and in all of this, we've done this right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111339	Hey, buddy Buck, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111340	Thank you. Dear Ministers are expecting us in this second half of this year to re-coordinate pensions. The current value of the pension will increase in 70 percentage points this time with price increases and this pension increase will likely be the largest in the last 10 years. Now, this rebalance envisions an increase in income from pension insurance contributions from 26 billion to 28 billion, but in that second part of the transfer from general incomes and receipts was foreseen in the original plan and has now remained the amount of approximately 19.3 and 19.1 billion kuna respectively. My question is very simple. Will that be enough? In the plan, already in the plan for last year and in the execution of that part, the transfer from the general incomes and receipts to the pension insurance office amounted to more than 20 billion kuna. It seems to me that exactly one billion kuna might be missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111341	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111342	Thank you, Your Honor, yes, as far as the pension system is concerned, I spoke on purpose and initially, among other things, with the intention of sending a message that if the funds are insufficient, it will be provided as such and that the pensioners will in no way come into any kind of concern as to what will happen in the second half of the year. The funds will be provided. It would be great to have this conclusion of yours, as well as mine, that in the second half of the year we expect a bigger increase in pensions and a bigger indexation. It would be great if, in the follow-up to that sentence, it was because of that growth in wages, not because of the growth in inflation. However, circumstances and reality are different. However, in accordance with the positive legal rules, we will carry out the indexation and, outside these positive regulations, we have implemented this one-time supplement payment as well as in Covid, both now and now for energy. And we know for ourselves that there's a very high base and I'll tell you again about the pension system no one happier than me that we can increase more.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111343	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111344	Thank you. I would like to know what the state will do if there is an increase in the interest rates of the European Central Bank and if they produce a recession, a decline in production, an increase in unemployment and a rise in public debt. Whether it will have the possibility to implement anticyclical food policies that would ensure complementary growth of public consumption or will continue to implement the policies of financial consolidation under the rules of the European Stability Pact, etc., taking into account that it is with the crown, and before that, meaning having in mind and some conukture then comes the corona and is put on hold means the pact of that European stability, etc., all the rules of the European Semester. Will we now, in view of inflation, still mean to return and raise the interest rate and return the limit of meaning in the respect in which I have stated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111345	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111346	Thank you, well-respected MPs, you've given everything well, I'd only make one small correction to your replica. He wouldn't even use the futur at all, but he'd already say what we're doing. When it happens, the announcement itself, let's see what the Fed's been doing, we can finally see what's going on in the financial markets. I talked about it in public a few days and weeks ago. We issued a bond at a big week just before Easter for 10 years a little less 3%. The same 12-year bond a year ago was 1.2%. And at that moment, we were the first member of the EU, not a member of the euro area who could at all betray and issue a bond as such. So, imminent and visible is this growth of interest. And we're on it I would say of course and count when I say and use the term ready, of course that means you have a solution. We can't have anyone to have solutions for all this, but it's very important, it's extremely important, with measures to fight inflation, to preserve economic growth, it's very important. Most importantly. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111347	Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111348	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, we heard some untruth that wanted to slip through the debate about our reduction of funds for reconstruction. It's a good thing we fixed it, that it doesn't burden us during the day anymore, but what I want to draw attention to is one piece of news that's been going through these two days, but it's pretty undetected. This is Croatia's progress on the economic freedom index scale. And when something happens in the six years that this government has managed almost 50 places to improve the position of the Republic of Croatia, only the last year 34 places clearly show what and how it is done. The biggest accent that is given in this review is exactly what you have spent as a minister, which is a few rounds of tax reform as one of the greatest values and effects of such tax reforms on status, means our population, workers, etc. So now I'm asking, really, do we really have any other opportunities to do something about it and what do you expect to do about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111349	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111350	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So this is exactly the report you quote as numerous other international, relevant and when you look at all countries horizontally who still have the best insight into the situation in certain countries but also in others, I would say they are important. And then when something is possible and they say critically, it should always be considered, because they certainly speak probably. But also when they say positive. You quoted a report, I said a little bit of Fitch's report a few days ago. These are all, however, reports that can actually confirm, that, of course, taking into account all the circumstances and challenges and uncertainty we have, not wanting pink coloring the situation in Croatia, but still showing that certain things are well done and done in an adequate way. However, the challenges we are currently facing are not specific to the Republic of Croatia, but we can say global challenges. And under these circumstances, these and such circumstances must always work.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111351	Comrade Dreven Buddinski, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111352	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister. The revenue side of the budget is determined by further growth in economic activity and by efforts to mitigate inflation, i.e. pressure on citizens and the economy. Thus, the estimated revenue from value added tax known as our VAT is based on the projections of the growth of personal consumption, tourist services, consumption and investment. The government of the Republic of Croatia reduced VAT to certain products and temporarily reduced excise duties on electricity. In spite of the government's efforts, the price of products continues to rise, so I am interested in whether or not we can expect the effects of this reduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111353	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111354	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It's just a little bumping into your replica, don't mind me. The government did not reduce electricity excise duty, as it cannot even reduce it at a minimum level. We practically have de jure, but we don't actually have and we're incomeing some sort of symbolic amount of about 30 million kuna a year. We've cut to fuel. There is still little space, however, taking into account still the element of uncertainty where and how prices of crude oil will move on international markets that affect fuel again, there is as much space as we left behind, and we will see, if necessary, still react. But you've well apostrophe of this VAT where we all need each other together I'd say in an affirmative way what's important, and that's actually to contribute because we're a market economy, there's no price regulation, there's no element of coercion. But that through competition is actually stimulated that this tax reduction is being overrun where the goal is, in this particular case to the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111355	Thank you. Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111356	Dear Minister, five months ago we warned here about health problems. We have clearly warned that those resources planned for healthcare are not enough and we do not understand how this is possible, that regardless of the medicines, we must pay this debt if we want to provide our services to our citizens. However, there are other basic duties from our hospitals. For example, special hospitals are also obliged to HZZO because they were unable to fulfil their obligations because of the covid of the crisis, because of the conditions of course established by the Government and the Staff. How is it possible that the health minister didn't predict it and that in five months he missed the budget by 4 billion, and we know that's not enough. It'll take us another 3.4 billion by the end of the year to cover all the costs. That's the first question. And the second question, what about the development agreement north? So last year, 27.12. The agreement was signed. So far, no ministry has responded to a conversation, an agreement, to a meeting that could be met.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111357	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111358	Thank you very much. For the development agreement, I'm going to ask my colleague Fuchs, I don't have information right now, and I don't have any excessive answers that can tell you where, at what stage. As far as health care itself is concerned, you mentioned the problem of a special hospital, general hospital, KBCs. I'm looking at it. It's all the same to me. I'm looking at total figures on whether someone is the founder and owner of local self-government and state. When the payment bill comes, secure the funds. How and how it's going to be transferred, I'd say the same thing among other things more about my personal impression. So for years we've been lost in a variety of less important things. A few years ago, here you can also testify among your colleagues the main topic was the exclusion of HZZO from the Treasury and that will solve all our problems. Did we get rid of them? The answer is self-inflicted. So also now that someone asks me if someone should be and change the ownership structure it is less important, it is important to achieve financial sustainability.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111359	Comrade Antoliæ Vupra, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111360	The respected ministers did not pass seven fat cows, not seven good years passed but began to come and thin, but the covid crisis was huge, there was an energy crisis, we were in inflation. We can agree that one of the most endangered groups that feel the burden of crisis are retired. So, after you've paid off the covid supplement, after you've paid off the energy supplement, will you support the SDP's proposal to pay off the inflation supplement in the fall that will be a very questionable quality of life for the pensioners right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111361	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111362	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Of course, it's absolutely legitimate for you to look for certain things and for the good part we'd say how and how we're considering this problem exactly the measures you mentioned yourself. And again I'll say for the third time today no one happier than me and us in the government that we can do more and as far as coordinating and increasing pensions and some single and similar supplements etc. all to improve the standard of living of our pensioners as such. But of course we have certain limitations. So, politically speaking, when you put up with something like this and that someone is possibly against you, you will, of course, conclude that we are against the pensioners. I think it's clear, not that we're not against the pensioners, but we're strong for them, and that's why I've been sending unequivocal messages all the time because I know how and how this theme can be reflected in some way, and I don't know how to expect a bigger indexation in the next half of the year. Will there be enough resources? It will. the funds will be provided... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111363	My colleagues, Grba Bujević, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111364	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Ministers. Health care will get 4.3 billion and a further 3.8 billion with this rebalancing. In addition to disbursement of debts in health care, this money is also intended for the payment of funds that one other government, not this government, has caused with regard to healthcare professionals and is also intended for Ukrainian people from Ukraine for Ukrainian refugees. Let me just remind you that there are 18,000 Ukrainian refugees in the Republic of Ukraine that we care about, and the same way that the healthcare system has provided 8,733 health services, a good part of which is related to hospital health institutions. This cost no one could predict, last year there was no war in Ukraine, and I welcome it because it will allow health institutions to have the same means to cover those services. There you go. Of course, we thank you for all that money. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111365	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111366	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs, and thank you very much for that replica because we are glad to extend the topic of health through the problem and only the supplier and the wholesaler. I don't think they deserve the overall health and health reform issues to be all about drugs either. We all know very well who are doing your entire career and many others here doctors and others, and I can say, too, based on past experiences as Minister of Finance, but by following this problem, I think we can conclude that the problem is where and where more comprehensive than the drugs themselves. Covid has shown how important and valuable he is and what he has done and made a health system, and that is why I think it is in everyone's best interest to put him on financially sustainable feet so that he can handle all the challenges and in some beautiful times, especially when times of crisis come again.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111367	My colleagues, Pocrnic-Radosevic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111368	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister. Given the proposal to amend and supplement the state budget for 2022. In the part of the active labour market policy, in the Ministry of Labour and HZZ, an increase of 482 million kuna was reported to be a new plan defined at 2 billion and 96 million kuna, which is an increase of 29.9%. Also, an increase of 26.7% was recorded in the active employment policy item and the total amount was 135 million kuna. The follow-up is expected to continue and implement active employment policy measures in the future, whether our employers and unemployed persons can also count on governmental incentives for employment and maintenance despite upcoming inflation and potential external factors which can affect the situation in the economy. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111369	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111370	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You have well analyzed the budget of the Ministry of Labour in total about two and three billion, respectively, when we look at all the sources. Active employment policies such as measures so far... slowly issuing... are always in focus, so on that side sure that will continue to encourage active employment. We know and we have ourselves still in force some of those measures, so let's call them covid measures to preserve jobs where and where in a narrow sense, but this is among other things here and until recently my colleague, now former Minister Aladrovic has said very nicely once. So we went from that conservation phase to the creation phase, that's the phase we are in, and I think, despite these crisis situations and moments, that's the key variable that we need to grow. I'm going to paraphrase the entrepreneurs again, what they need is the most important workforce.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111371	Thank you. Minister, six more replicas... Six more minutes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There's a fellow byste.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111372	Dear Minister. They say inflation is a friend of the state budget and an enemy of the standard of living of citizens and the economy. I must stress that we are in the same situation as a number of European countries. After the Ukrainian crisis, the prime ministers announced sets of measures that are related to the two... living standards and, of course, the preservation of the economy. I will stress that in these 11 billion surpluses or increases in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, there are not those two things, however, you pointed out that we are only implementing those measures that we had for the covid crisis and fasting in this case... before the Ukrainian crisis. I wonder why such great resources don't go to the citizens? Why aren't they heading towards the economy? I'm also going to say that that answer [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] I expect not only from you but probably from the Prime Minister, is it usually the Prime Ministers.../The speakers speak at the same time./... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111373	Thank you, fellow Bice. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111374	Thank you very much, Your Honor. What you're saying is I'm not sure that any finance minister has ever said that is a friend inflation friend of the budget only if you're looking at a separate revenue side of the budget. If that were the case if I turned down all these claims and the cost hikes I would now be in my office watching you discuss here a third point, and that extra income finely enlisted, recorded the surplus and said that, however, circumstances are where and where different. You know the cost side itself that is really under the great effect and effect of this same inflation and all this that we are talking about here and the health system and the pension system and the salaries and care of refugees and the anti-inflation package measures etc., etc. As regards comparisons with other countries, I will say again, don't ignore that fact and the European Commission itself says, our package is among the more betrayed, significantly above the average, and you know that many countries have had election cycles, etc. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111375	Comrade Peric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111376	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. It's easy for some colleagues here to find that the rebalancing is now incompetence, and it's forgotten how much effort has been made in 2021 when you've also reduced income tax and profit tax, when these effects have been quite evident. In addition, when looking at how much damage the pandemic had done and what seemed to have been done, there was already a mention of the VAT that was already mentioned at the beginning of the year immediately, the intervention was to reduce and that in this way the effects of the inflation that was expected, which already in 2021 had its indications, therefore very active, very engaged precisely in this direction tried to work and seemed to be inflation and all these negative effects were stabilised.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111377	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111378	Thank you very much. Well, as with a number of other things in life timing is of crucial importance for those measures and covids, and so now it's not only appropriate to respond, but also timely and taking into account everything, let's just say I'm being offered your replica, as we just heard about the warnings, because who was warning you. So take both the projections and the estimates of the European Central Bank, a few months ago expectations were the first half of the year, in the second half of the year the appearance of the blowout, expectations have changed, are we going to say that someone in the European Central Bank doesn't know something, they are certainly among the best experts in monetary policy and monitoring the general movement of inflation and it is certainly for them to believe, but the circumstances have, in the meantime, agreed on additional challenges and unfortunately this has deepened all together. In these circumstances, of course, it is important to act, but to seek and find the best moment when and the effect of your actions will be so seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111379	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111380	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, when you were more than six years ago. becoming Minister of Croatia was in the process of excessive budget deficits and in the procedure of excessive macroeconomic imbalances, since then, Croatia has emerged from both procedures. In the meantime, both Croatia and Europe and the world were first affected by a health, health crisis that has become overrun by the economy and now the security situation conditioned by Russia's aggression to Ukraine. I am now interested in today, where Croatia is today, what does the European Commission say and where, compared with other older ones, the EU Member States are setting us up financially, is Croatia today a stable state when it comes to public finances and how are we compared to the EU average?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111381	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111382	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Referring to this start of the mandate not only to me but to the governments in 2016, I will remind everyone not only that we were in the category of countries with excessive macroeconomic imbalances at the time, it even threatened us to fall another step lower than I remember any country had ever been before. We have managed to stop it, and then in the years to come, to improve our status, and I expect a lot of reports from the European Commission these days, and the convergence report from the European Central Bank and the European Commission, and so on, that's what you're talking about. Our efforts all these years have been so far, and I am sure we will continue to recognize today's picture of Croatia in these very circumstances that you say we are a country with an investment rating, which we have not recently been, a country without excessive fiscal and budgetary imbalances, which we have recently been, and we are also not a country with imbalances economically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111383	Thank you. Now it's time for my colleague, Juričev-Martinchev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111384	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, and yesterday in Sibenik, it could be heard that President Milanovic criticises the withdrawal of European funds and says that only 5 billion kunas are in a positive compared to the EU budget or later in a second statement, so I think it is good that our citizens know that more than 125% of the available funds have been agreed, that more than 70% has been paid and that we are in plus almost 50 billion, and when we add the NPOO funds to more than 55 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111385	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111386	Thank you very much, I didn't listen to the president's statement yesterday, but you yourself said he explained it further, and these are the figures that you said at the end, so I'm going to do it again, and I was just saying the same thing, 49.1 billion when we've been looking at it since the beginning of our formal membership as much as we've withdrawn from how much we've paid, when the NPOO 55.2 billion kuna is added to it in favour of the Republic, so plus that relationship, and I think that balance is actually going to be further improved because with the multi-year financial framework that is now ending and will be valid for the next 7 years. Croatia continues to have significant and substantial NPOO funds. In any case, despite what I'd say to be in that plus, it's very important to continue this dynamic, to continue this dynamic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111387	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Bartula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111388	Thank you, dear Minister, we're almost there, I hope the vote will last a little while longer. In these discussions that we have had so far, you certainly know my position that the share of the total state is too high, too high in Croatia, public spending is also worrying for me. In addition to all these extraordinary situations, it seems to me that the government has not done much that only she can. So I agree that it's limited what you can do about inflation and other things right now, but around structural reforms, you're the only one who can do it, so my question again applies to these sectors where it actually burns, health care. You were in a session with a colleague, Beros, when I asked him about health care, he admitted that nothing was reformed and we still have a socialist approach. Do you agree that we cannot expect to rationalise expenditure without introducing market mechanisms into that system including the source those who pay not only to be HZO [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bartulica.]] It's about the competition. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111389	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111390	Thank you very much, Your Honor, and also at this session, as well as in this very much commentary in which direction you should take further steps and just before I was responding to the problem of medicines I said. It really needs to be looked at comprehensively. Not just one segment to isolate and manage this problem but a complete system to watch. Do not send any messages that immediately deter any step and any reform. Let's just say I don't know it's nationalization of the health system or privatization, is that this or that, these are very flat-rate assessments. This should be accessed comprehensively and watch all segments and according to our and constitutional principles and principles, but of course and everything we seek, implement something that will ultimately ensure the financial sustainability of this important system and others. You mentioned total structural reforms and I'm always naturally affirmative of such species.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111391	Thank you. And the last replica, Comrade Bilek, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111392	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Government, and here's the inflation that we've heard a lot about here today is not just a matter of Republic and some management in one way or another, unfortunately it's a global matter in case and security threats, everything we've had with the health system, but following this and what you've been talking about, and a few countries in the environment as I've noticed some of them are already in inflation as far as the two-digit figures are concerned. So I would only like to ask where we are in this work because indeed and how much I have heard from colleagues from the EU and from the Czech Republic who will soon chair our package is really betrayed in this direction and is aimed directly at the economy, but also at households and all people and citizens of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111393	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111394	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, in April, let's say that we achieved inflation that is something in that upper half of the countries, but as far as I'm saying again, the average of the last 12 months are really here, and all this time we wouldn't even be worried about comparisons with other countries if we just compared ourselves to the average. And you said exactly the Baltic lands, the many countries of the so-called. The old members of both the EU and the European Monetary Union, such as the Netherlands and the like, have stepped long ago into the two-digit inflation rate zone. And they're simple facts. These are facts and in all this, of course, all these measures that we are talking about here and our actions both at national level and at European level, I think they should be focused. It is very important, of course, that monetary authorities, the European Central Bank, will work, and I still hope that there is room at national level and so will our CNB. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111395	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, has endured all these replicas, now let's get some repurchaser, and we'll move on. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP, two representatives of counterparts Grbin and counterpart Lalovac will speak. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111396	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm a little hurried, Mr. Vice-President. I'm sorry that this is a voice situation for you. You can always have very specific and correct discussions, and it's a recognition that needs to be given to you. But it wasn't easy for you today, it wasn't easy for you to defend this rebalancing. And this rebalancing and this early rebalancing is actually the consequence of two circumstances. One is external, and that's inflation, that's war in Ukraine, the Russian aggression that's happening. However, apart from external reasons for rebalancing, we and our Croatian internals, which is bad planning at the end of last year. Bad planning in certain corridors or I'll let myself say that maybe even a false display of numbers, numbers, for example in health care. So respected colleagues and colleagues if we are out of opposition based on what happened last year, on the basis of external indicators, we have seen that the amount envisaged for health care is not enough then you, especially you from the Ministry of Finance, especially the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, must also see it. And you didn't predict enough resources and what, you had to admit a few weeks ago that health debts grew at a rate of 400 to 500 million kuna a month. And at that rate, if we look at what's supposed to be rebalancing, it won't be enough to cover these debts by the end of the year, which means that this rebalancing is also suffering from problems like the budget. But let's go back to inflation for a moment. We had to rebalance what was the government's measure of February this year. It's a commitment. When you have measures that weigh 5 billion kunas, then you have to show them in rebalancing. However, after the measures we went out with in February, we do not have new ones, and other EU Member States, not to go wider, are constantly adopting such measures. And what's going to happen? On the one hand, their citizens will be better protected from Croatians, and on the other hand their entrepreneurs who will receive from their countries of support will be more competitive and will endanger the position of our entrepreneurs and also on our Croatian market. Two months ago, the EU gave a framework to Member States. That's what we talked about here in the Croatian Parliament. However, Croatia is not benefiting from the framework. What we are proposing is very concrete measures. First, fairer pension coordination to ensure their growth and maintain value in the age of inflation. Secondly, the new supplement you called energy, and I would call it an inflationary supplement for pensioners because it is now quite clear that this inflation does not stop it will be even bigger by the end of the year. In April 4 countries at the monthly rate of inflation in the EU, 4. Thus, we are speeding up and need new measures to help those who are the most vulnerable. Of course, in this regard, we must also consider whether a round of vouchers should be expanded and their amount increased. Further, measures towards entrepreneurs. You'll say it's not the same situation as it was during Covid. No, but it has many features that make it comparable. We cannot allow our entrepreneurs who have already lost the market of Ukraine and Russia not to be able to look for new markets, we simply cannot, especially in a situation where the EU Member States are acting, we cannot allow our entrepreneurs to be put in a worse position than in the one where they already are. Of course, other than the vouchers, in addition to the addition of pensioners to both better and fairer pension coordination, tax policy should also be changed according to energy, primarily towards fuel, in order to ensure that this growth is contained, but also the issue of income tax or non-taxable part. I mentioned health care, the debt of growth, the reform is gone, the consequences of citizens do not have a quality health system and I will not just talk about recent examples that we have talked about very much in the previous days, but this is a systemic problem, our health in these circumstances is not able to meet their obligations, the citizens did not deserve it, the citizens pay it and have the right to get something in return. And finally rebuilding, you said 300 million kunas more, I hold you by the word, but the fact is that the Fund for Reconstruction is being reduced, that's a fact, and at the same time it's a fact that we can read in the media that people who have been promised that their houses will be built by June and that in early June they will be able to enter them, testify that the works are standing, that the construction workers don't have 10 to 15 days and that there's no theoretical chance that the deadline we set ourselves will be fulfilled. These are all the problems that indicate how this government doesn't work, and then, as a result, as much as this rebalance doesn't really reflect the real situation, it's necessary, but it's not enough. He does not provide answers to either the inflation crisis, nor the health crisis, nor the recovery crisis, he does not provide funds to combat inflation and preserve citizens' standards, and therefore we cannot support him in the SDP, and now I leave the word to my colleague, Lalovec, who will speak more specifically about certain things that do not work in this budget, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111397	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111398	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. How interesting it is during a certain period of time when the state is in crisis here today to hear whether we are successful or not, so I listen here to my colleague Bačić imply that the SDP government was in macroeconomic imbalances in 2014, '15, '16, then the HDZ government showed up and it's all great, wonderful, fantastic, and for example. We don't remember when he was Minister in 2008. If we were in bananas, if we were in bananas, that's what the prime minister said at the time, is HDZ, is we in bananas, then the finance minister was the Secretary of State, we had an investment rating, could he be in charge, do you think he could be in charge, what were the macroeconomic environment for Croatia at the time? I don't think Minister Schuker was a bad minister, because then there were such macroeconomic circumstances for Croatia they were like that, and the prime minister said we were in bananas, then she came in 2014 and '15. when Croatia was in recession. Remember what happened in Greece? Shutting down an ATM, rioting on the roads. What happened in Spain? It's a riot, isn't it? What happened in Ireland, what happened in Italy, what happened in Croatia? We were... There were no riots as they were in those lands. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I see today that's what this is about, it was a bad government of SDP, so then she did it, what's changing today, right? The macroeconomic environment is changing, it is changing, it is changing that we are now not only a full member of the EU but we are joining the euro area, they are watching us differently, it is a political decision and it is good for Croatia. We have always said what is good for Croatia that it is good and we will never do it, and when some things are good by the government we will praise, but we can't just do it here now just so we're going to hit it here from 2016 is all great, we've got all these instruments, and we'll see it very quickly so I'm not telling you this for bad purposes, because we've had opportunities for a number of reforms that have been expected from us, don't forget what the European Commission has asked of many member states in 2014, '14. And in '15. Yeah, what were those measures about... etc., what happened in the EU then? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] A number of riots were in southern Europe, yes, a very large dissatisfaction was about it. Europe has changed its structure today, no more talking about having to cut, that we have to tighten the belt, etc. You know what happened, what was Germany's policy? Now we've all said with the covid crisis you spend, is that what the President of the Commission said, spend, spend, spend, return the economy. What happened? Well, we've printed so much money, we've spent so much on inflation with this disorder, the disturbance on the market, so the circumstances of the European Commission for the countries have changed in 2014 and '15. When we have been unbalanced and changed today is, as they have changed, we will see how the European Central Bank is going to go towards it, and instead of talking here today, and we know that these measures that need to matter, but let's not forget that 30% of them, every honor you've increased your salary in the public sector 30%, whether you've increased public sector productivity by 30%, whether we've increased public sector productivity ask the entrepreneurs if, if we're public sector, all right, all of them are looking for public sector, looking for these, looking for them, whether we've increased, if we're better, we can, for foreign investment in Croatia, be more productive that our country is closer to investment and to start the economy, look for what's going on, so the projections of what's happened here. Private investment will stop, you know why, is it so uncertain in the long term about inflation, as far as interest rates are concerned, as far as the raw materials of private investment are concerned, not at zero, that they will come but they have all stopped and are waiting for the next year to do so. Who's the only investor? Well, the only investor is the state, the only investor through reconstruction, through funds, and that's one part of the money that goes into guidance and restoration. Let's not forget, and just here in projections it says that personal consumption is going to slow down, and of course it will slow down when inflation and when it is, when prices are what they are. So let's not fool ourselves that there will be money from Europe forever. Someone also needs to rebuild Ukraine and they expect about 500 billion dollars. How much Europe will give, how much America will give. Circumstances change, they change quickly, they'll be replaced in six months, today what we're saying here doesn't necessarily mean that in six months it'll be worth it. But that's why it's up to us here, if we can agree that some things are from public administration reform, reform and local administrations that we've just gone through again. I'm the only one who's sad, is that it's only here that the government has given up any kind of reform. I'm telling you the truth. Not just in health care. At least for a time there's been talk about it is, let's just let this part of what you're talking about there write for this NGO whether we're going to create it because we feel on the expense side whether entrepreneurs are satisfied, whether the citizens in that part of the reform, that in that part, that alone now that we have the opportunity, when we have the money in that part, that we're in that system that we can withstand this kind of pressure, that we can endure this kind of pressure, right? We, now, agree we now have an intervention filling, intervening the land of this natural gas. We're all doing some intervention measures, aren't we? We're all doing an intervention measure for each area. We're shutting down health care now, we're shutting down the gas, now we're shutting down whatever it is. Now the question is in these two years, not the minister's problem, he's doing his job best from his colleagues. The problem is that today we're saying there's no one in health, we're talking about the euro, there's no governor, they've raised their hands, right? They've raised their hands, only the CNB thinks they're going to get a position in the European Central Bank. That's all. Have you heard one piece of information? The government is trying as hard as to give certain incentives for the economy, each day pressures are on the government. Have you ever... I don't know what the governor is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He said I won't work anymore until the end of the year, he's watching there who's going to get a certain position, now what's in kunas, he'll have in euros and he said he already said I'm working towards the ECB, I'm not doing anything right. So we don't have monetary policy anymore, do we? We don't have monetary policy. And all the time he's going to do it again, and he's going to be able to comment on how to do the reform, it's very good, how to do the reform on the expenditure side, right? And here, I'm only sorry that we just gave in to all the teams, we say we need to raise the wages, we need, we need everything, right, we need to find anyone today who needs everything, okay? It's just a question of whether when the recession comes, that's what we're all afraid of, that's what Europe is afraid of, is, and that's why the minister here said we're giving everything to grow economically. This is the most important thing in this part, and this is the turning point that Europe does not know whether or not it will be able to achieve this growth. In six months, it doesn't have to mean that we're going to have this kind of policy, we don't have the slightest idea what it's going to look like when you have four times the inflation difference between Lithuania and France, four times, and France is on the stagnation line. We don't know if, and because what we say let's get ready now, there's no connection is going to be a budget, it's going to be measures, but let's at least put someone who wants to make some reforms in these two years, it won't be popular measures, the people will understand that if and when they come, and unfortunately they're good times, now they're unstable, every little bit more unstable, and all we have here is the Minister of Finance who defends all of this. This isn't his rebalancing at all. This is the rebalancing of his colleagues who aren't here today, who aren't here today. And he has to actually look for answers for all of them, it's a bad policy. It's a bad policy and that's why I say there's no governor, there's no other ministers, there's no one here today, and we're all talking here today, the finance minister is going to try to actually do some kind of acrobatics about getting gas, so he's going to work around health care, about anything, about rebuilding, etc. Yeah. And are we satisfied that structurally it doesn't work because it's big, bulky systems, it's not easy to run. It's not easy for a new economy minister either, he doesn't even know what he's gotten into what level of megaministry he's entered. So that's what we're trying to talk about today, not criticizing you, not criticizing you. rather than simply point to those things that unfortunately are ahead of us. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111399	You, too. Now it's Mr. Marin Lerotić from the IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111400	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers with co-workers and I agree with my colleague, I said so and we did, when the 2022 budget was presented, that it would really be good if nothing other resolute ministers were sitting here and listening to Minister Maric defend them, but also to hear everything we have from the opposition, but also from the ruling ministers we have to tell them. But they are gone, and clearly there will be none. And today we have a budget a lot earlier than we could have expected, so half a year ago. And it definitely doesn't need to be ignored because it says something about the current state of affairs. And unfortunately, we have an inflation rate in April which is over 9.6% and we have to be aware that in the coming months we will also have a further rise in prices and food, as well as household supplies. The state budget or, in this case, the budget rebalancing, with the financial document indisputable and the political document from which the government's policy is visible and the direction of the country's development is being implemented. And the direction of this government is as we have the opportunity to see a new rebalance and a new increase in debt. Like any time in the assembly, the state budget or budget rebalance is unfortunately always the same. Health money leaks like water from Zagreb pipelines. The budget rebalance shows an increase in the deficit by 4.3 billion, which at this point leads us to a final score of minus 13.6 billion kuna, and if we don't lie, it will be even more in the next one. This brings the health ministry's budget to 20 billion kuna, which is still not nearly the final state it was for 2021 when we pumped 38 billion kuna into health care. And that wouldn't be a problem if we solved the health problem, but we didn't, and the next month it's going to be 500 million kuna, that month after a billion kuna and so on from a circle to a circle. And no one from the Department of Health here is here to explain it to us and to explain why it doesn't offer reform, we heard something that they want to centralize the health system, and when we know that 80% of the debt is produced by state-owned hospitals better not even come here. So it's more than crystal clear to everyone that things in health care don't work out, and it's even more funny to repeat because our health situation is so bad that it looks picturesquely like the Titanic in the scene before the complete sinking, and what's worse is that the solutions obviously aren't there and it's no exaggeration but it really is. And instead of ruling something they do or at least trying to do the bullying press and that way we won't move forward. The ruling must understand that the opposition does not talk without reason about the unsustainable health system, that we do not advocate without reason the reform of the health system and not from yesterday but years ago, but because the water has come to the throat and if something urgent is not done, our citizens will feel all of this on their backs. And already as parrots, we repeat ourselves every time it comes to the health system, and we really don't know what else to say or make things change for the better. The ruling ones often say we got money from the EU for reforms, and there is no reform. Before I'm wrong, I've been talking about this phone booth for two weeks, and I'm going to do it again and again now, and that's that money from the EU won't fall from the sky, but it needs to be done very well and a lot of quality work, because if we want it to include good operationality and coordinated action. However, the situation is currently completely unsatisfactory and we can conclude that there is a trend in uncoordinated work and poor system functioning and ignoring the opportunities offered by EU funds. Because when we talk about the economy ministry, the new minister obviously has different priorities, so the reduced item for financing investment, industry, exports, innovation for more than 22 million kunas because what I've listed really shouldn't be a priority. It also reduces the item to encourage innovation development research, the reason or reduction of the full amount is set out in the item of the European Regional Development Fund. No European competition has been opened since operational plans have yet to be adopted. Like I said, the situation is getting better and better. Also operational programme Effective human potential was downloaded 77 million out of 100 as planned when this budget was adopted. And as I said before and here we see that we are terribly late in withdrawing European funds and that we are all going to find ourselves in big trouble together, and there are no responsible ones and, of course, there will be none. Everything's going according to plan. There are no signs of serious forms, and that's something that's really worrying. We think that we should still relieve entrepreneurs, reduce red tape, work on having a more efficient system within the judiciary and digitise the system of state administration to help entrepreneurs, but also to give greater transport to the production industry, to export industries, to make the Croatian economy stronger and better quality. As I said in the replica, state property should be put into operation, I said in the Muzil area which makes up a fifth of the entire area of the city of Pula where there is the possibility of investing more than a billion kuna, profiting from the concession, new employment, I also repeat putting state property into operation and all of this remains a state tomorrow together. It is in Croatia's interest and it is the only way that we can make progress as a country, be more competitive and stable. In short, these are some of our observations, but I think, or at least we hope to see in this budget, already, that some things are moving forward and that in the coming period we will be creating a more quality social economy because we believe that the crisis is exactly an opportunity, and in the situation when we have had GDP growth we have produced nothing, we have not made any reforms and no shifts have been visible, so we really hope that this crisis will force us to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111401	Thank you. Now it's the National Minority Club and Mr. Vladimir Bilek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111402	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Vice-President of the HS, the respected representative of the Ministry of Finance, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here's as real as we've seen through these replicas, but we also see every day around us that the economic financial situation in both the Republic of Croatia and the global agenda is a daily topic for all of us, but also for the government, for the representatives of the opposition, but also for the citizens because it changes daily and affects the quality of life for all of us. In fact, life is becoming more expensive, but the functioning of the state under these conditions is becoming more complex and, as we have witnessed, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been forced to take a number of measures. The measures taken to mitigate price growth, primarily energy, but also certain food products, through a reduction in value added tax, have also received some positive effects on citizens' lives, particularly those socially at risk. The development of global developments also assumes a further continuation of this trend, as well as an increase in the difficulties in the functioning of the economy, primarily through the prices of raw materials and prices, but also the available amounts of energy that are doing the situation around us and the security risks can be limited at some point. The consequences of Russia's aggression in Ukraine, a war whose end is not under surveillance at this time, will continue to have a negative impact on supply flows, flows of available goods and their price. The state will most likely have to take additional measures when it comes to gas supplies, to take charge of gas storage, as well as refurbishment of supply reserves. Here I would just like to say, today is the Minister of Economy in Grubišni Polje, where research at new underground gas storage facilities which should also ensure stability as regards the supply itself. In this package, of course, the costs are not negligible nor the cost of accepting and providing Ukrainian refugees who may not be present as in Poland or neighbouring Ukraine, but also come to us and care for them, and we care for them. Unfortunately, there have been no announced changes in the organisation and functioning of the health system, which have led to generation and accumulation of costs and debts according to major drugs that need to be resuscitated in a hasty manner in order to preserve the system, in order to enable citizens to receive adequate health care and, although the Croatian economy has quickly and strongly recovered from the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, epidemics and measures taken and supplies in the health care sector are still terriblely and heavily burdened by the state budget in the past year. In a good employer's manner, the government successfully completed negotiations with state and civil servants' unions in April on the basis of which 4% of the pay base has been increased since 1 May. Additional costs for the state budget are the indexation of pensions due to the growth of wages of the consumer price index, but there is, of course, concern for our pensioners, care for our citizens of the Republic of Croatia. All these indicators should also be taken into account the lack of labour. Croatia will be forced to introduce more foreign workers than we have ever had in order to maintain the necessary economic activity, primarily in tourism that represents each year. With the price of raw materials, the prices of work are growing dizzyly, both in our country and in the world. With labour shortages and labour imports, unfortunately, precisely because of the labour price, we are still recording and still in a small amount, the outflows of our people, primarily those who go after higher wages somewhere in the EU or globally in the world. In this light, we note the rise in inflationary pressures, in 2022, the acceleration of consumer price inflation to 7.8%, which will also contribute to food and oil prices. Here we have seen and heard a lot of things about inflation, but also many developed countries and those countries that can be said by the old EU countries, that have a much larger number than the larger two-digit number as regards the inflation index. Given all this that the budget could not bear, this rebalance increases budget revenues by 6.6 billion kuna and costs 10.9 billion kuna. The general government's budget is expected to record a deficit of 2.8% of GDP and the share of public debt in GDP will decrease by 3.6% compared to the year before and will be 76.% of GDP. The stability of this rebalancing with domestic sources will certainly contribute to the revenue expected from the accelerated withdrawal of the agreed EU funds. Reports of the annual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 but above all for the new financial period 2021-2027 as EU instruments of the new generation. Significant funds from the EU Solidarity Fund to finance the recovery of public infrastructure damaged by the earthquake in Zagreb and Banovina, which we lead to and through rebalancing are increasing these funds. We still have to leave the funds there and there are funds for implementing operational programmes, for building infrastructure from kindergartens, schools, dormitories, cultural and educational centres, but also all that generates in some way not only the quality and quality of the knowledge of our citizens but also the employment of our companies, and thus, generates certain growth and prevents a fall in greater return. So this is a necessary and reasonable rebalancing, it's justified and the National Minority Representatives' Club will support this rebalancing with strong support from the government to continue to monitor the use of budget money and the mitigation of the crisis that is being shed from the global framework to our country as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111403	You, too. Ms. Vesna Vucilović, Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereignists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111404	Thank you very much, dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Since we've combined these three points of the agenda, let me start from the last one. So first I'll say what's good. Because it's time to say a few words about this report last year that marked economic recovery, and it's mostly due to the good tourist season, but also, that year has marked a rise in the costs of the health system which, if judged by this rebalancing, have no intention of returning to those levels before the COVID epidemic 19. Now, since 2020 was marked by closing, banning activities, restrictions on all possible species, then it is logical to take the year 2019 for comparison and this 2020 as soon as possible, mostly the part of the struggle with the epidemic that was modelled in China, when we were among the countries that had the most restrictive measures. What I will point out as positive and is related to macroeconomic indicators is the growth of exports, construction works and industrial production, and these should be fundamental definitions and future ones if we want to reduce the dependence on tourism as an economic branch which has proved to be extremely sensitive to the crisis. What was growing all the time was the state consumption which, of course, is not good, and already last year, there was a rise in food prices and not only these products, but also raw materials and construction materials, which continued this year with greater intensity, and it is best seen at inflation rates. So for April of this year it was a record 9.4%, it continued to accelerate, and if we look at it most, it was influenced by the prices of transport and food. If we compare this with some other EU countries, then we are still standing well because there are over 20% inflation in Austria, Estonia over 30, but it is very worrying and with the announced growth of interest rates, it raises a number of questions, and it is related to the financing of this deficit that is growing in this rebalancing process. Now, if we're going to talk about who's ahead of us today, I have to start with a sentence that's just inevitable, and it says so. We told you. Thus, a number of representatives said when presenting the 2022 budget that the expenditure on the spending side was simply underestimated. You planned to cut them by 4 billion kuna this year, and now in this rebalancing, it's a health system that's no longer a recovery, although it's now become a regular phenomenon, so for hospitals and HZZO over 4 billion and 4.3 billion kuna, respectively. If we know how Minister Maric informed us that these costs are now no longer increasing 200, 300 million per month, but now suddenly they are growing 400, 500 million kuna per month, then we really need to ask ourselves what will happen by the end of this year, or maybe it is better not to ask. Let's pretend like nothing's happening, but it's happening and it's not good. Last year, six billion kunas were additionally spent more than planned. It's going to be hard this year. So last year we calculated that health care generates 200, 300 million kunas of that deficit every month this year is now 400, 500. So these 4.3 billion won't be enough if last year there was a six this year there can only be more. And in principle, it's not really a recovery anymore. It's a systematic cost increase that's increased in the pandemic, and there's obviously no going back now. And that's usually the main pain of public systems. Once costs, when expenditures rise to a higher level, very rarely it goes in that reverse direction, very rarely it goes back. So a certain level of cost has been achieved and the system wants to keep it. And regardless of the causes of this initial increase, which in this case was an epidemic of Covida-19 and after the cause disappeared, the virus did not disappear but here there is no plexiglas, we do not wear masks, we live more or less the same as before the epidemic, or we can say that the reduced cost impact remains at that higher level. So it was illusory to expect that health costs would decrease 4 billion kunas this year and we told you that. Less or less all the opposition MPs told you that when you adopted the budget. And that's one of the reasons why we didn't support that budget because it was unrealistic, and even now what you've brought is not real either. What we expected at the adoption of the budget was two rebalances this year. What we expected was an increase in revenues due to inflation that was already evident last year. Now, what we didn't expect was the rise in expenditures of nearly 11 billion kunas 9% compared to last year, 6% compared to the plan. And as a consequence of all that, a deficit of $13.7 billion and 2.8%, respectively. Now, taught by all this experience, we only have one question to ask ourselves. Is that a real number, is that a final number? What else is missing here? And there's not much to ask. The first thing that attracts attention is the amount envisaged to finance gas supply. We all know that the gas warehouse is empty and it is expected at the end of the heating season, but before leaving the government Minister Coric decided that if private PPD, INA, HEP, EON will not charge at these high gas prices underground warehouse around then the state will do so. That's what he left for us. Nice of him means there will be gas for next season's heating season, but to restore gas supplies, it takes 300m euros, which is more than 2 billion kuna, and this rebalance provides for only 75m kuna and 10m euros, respectively, amount not to be insignificant but definitely insufficient. Now, as these costs will be divided, probably between HEP and the state register remains to be seen, but if that cost was shown in this rebalancing process then the deficit would not be 2.8 but would be over 3% E now that we expect to enter the euro area, because we expect the European Commission's report at the end of 6 and at the beginning of 7 months was very convenient to ignore all this together, not to show the total amount because then Croatia would not meet two criteria for the introduction of the euro and that would already be a problem, and then what we will leave for the end, for that other rebalancing technically, and then we will show that because it will have to be shown somewhere, we will see whether it is just creative accounting that we are already used to meet the conditions for the introduction of the euro or not, we will find out in the fall, but we could already say that there is a little creative accounting. What we can claim with complete certainty right now is that the spending party is completely out of control, completely. A journalist just before asked me what could have been done as this has grown, so put it under control finally once. In the past term, reforms have not been implemented although there have been excellent conditions, macroeconomicly never better, now in the middle of the mandate in such complex circumstances expect this government seeking stability to make any reform illusory, even the greatest optimists I do not think expect absolutely any reform from this government now in the middle of the mandate. And the spending side is growing by nearly 11 billion, but it's interesting that in the media it's not talking about it, two hills are fighting, the president and the prime minister are having a little bit of public fun every day, but these 11 billion are obviously not interesting to anyone, it goes under the radar, so why don't the expenditures rise by 20, 30 or already how many billions if these 11 are completely irrelevant to the public and it's downgraded to a mere number. The only thing we can expect next time is even bigger figures on the spending side or maybe a few more exposés of Minister Maric with elevated tones when his throat is slightly recovered because he cannot discipline the users of the budget when it comes to spending. What is crucial, and this is how this increase in expenditure will affect the economy, the competitiveness of our companies, the responsibility, the standard of living and purchasing power, obviously the public is not too interested. In addition, we see that some world-wide topics are being imposed which, in such a unstable and crisis situation, the question is, in general, who is it appropriate to step up the division in society and what do the inhabitants of Croatia have in the first place, whether they will live better, whether they will have greater purchasing power, is absolutely certain that they will not. What, here's to not being all bad that's good at this rebalancing is this macroeconomic framework that's, let's say, made for real. Last time we overestimated GDP growth, and inflation was underestimated, so what we now have in our assessment is three times more than just a few months ago when the budget was adopted and compared to the World Bank, compared to the European Commission that came out here with its estimates you did this cautiously, here I have to say, I have to commend you, you went a little more carefully than this one was taught by experience, it's nice to learn this way in walking because here the European Commission estimated inflation to be 6.1%, the government has entered from 7.8, and the GDP growth is estimated at 3%, and the European Commission at 3.4. What these final figures will depend on, unfortunately again on tourism and again on the tourist season. We have not learned in the coronary crisis how fragile it is, how sensitive the economic branch is, and in such unstable geopolitical circumstances, absolutely all scenarios are possible, including those with negative effects. What I'm going to point out, and I'm not getting there, so I'm going to leave it for an individual debate, so the payer's attention is drawn to the profit tax item and the income is growing 10%, which in the nominal amount is 851 million kuna, and it's good for companies to do positive business and pay the profit tax, that's always good, but in times of crisis, in times of inflation we should take care of the socially most sensitive groups. People are complaining about the rising price of gas, the rise and price of wood, 500 kuna wood, so the Croatian forests are private or state-owned companies, why this must follow the price of gas and why Croatian forests must make extra profits in this situation. A little more social sensitivity not only at government level but also at the level of state and public enterprises in this situation is very important, they should not use the situation to increase their extra profits but also to help those most socially vulnerable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111405	You, too. Now it's the Club of Representatives of the Bridge, Mr. Troscott's first, and then he'll be succeeded by Mr. Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111406	Dear Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, and all those who follow us through the screen. What's the main message here is that the budget as such has been increased again by almost all items other than education, but the main question that is being raised for all of our citizens is whether, on the basis of the increase in the budget itself, will you really live better than that? So we have a situation that the war is spreading between Ukraine and Russia, we don't know what will happen to the pandemic in the autumn because certain pharmaceutical companies have announced that even last year's budget, which can't be achieved by selling even pulsed, cardiological, oncological medicines, which means that only the vaccines remain, we have that China is a semi-closed system now where several hundred ships are waiting in front of Shanghai, where demand for Chinese products is increasing, and then, accordingly, it means that we are going to increase all prices or more globally to the energy crisis and entry of Finland and Sweden, which, regardless of how someone thinks in this direction, geopolitically, geostrategicly, it means that we have certainly entered into a decade of unrest, disagreement with Russia, which will certainly affect energy or the same price, and within a short period, we can't replace energy and even energy development in an independent manner. As far as inflation itself is concerned, it would be good today if only the Ministry had done a calculation of what this inflation is and what is waiting for us and how we should finance it because we are waiting for it in the future. What the Mosta Club did was, we came up with some calculations, some 20 billion, depending on what inflation would be at the end of the year, and in what way? We take GDP, we take household spending is about 60% within that GDP, and then it's multiplied by the rate.../incomprehensible/... the expected rate of inflation and we get about 20 billion kuna that we'll have total damage to all households throughout Croatia. Now, the Mosta Club also has a potential solution, as Switzerland has done to finance Covid's debt. It is a similar situation, where Switzerland estimated that Covid would owe them some 30 billion Swiss francs, there are prices, only Swiss francs and Croatian kunas, and they said well, we have 11 to 13 years to pay off the debt that came from Covid in Switzerland. And how are we going to do that? Number one, we're going to get a profit from the Swiss National Bank and over the years we're going to pay that debt plus all those surpluses that we get from the budget, those reserves, we're going to be paying off, and in 11 to 13 years, one Switzerland is going to pay off the debt that came from Covid. Now, how we're going to pay it off when we don't even know how much it's worth or how much it's worth, that's what one big secret is about getting medical equipment that didn't even go through public procurement, let's remember what it looked like. And today we are just here because of the rebalancing of that same health care, where the minister is involved in a minimum of two affairs, about the purchase of medical equipment that is twice as expensive when taking a comparative offer from German producer Zeiss for the Sister of Mercy Hospital until the money has been paid to his friend, the paparazzi friend who followed him during the campaign, and we are here today to discuss the budget rebalancing due to corruption, at the end of the day, where we have corruption that some 70 billion kuna costs us yearly this corruption, where here's money to a girl as it was told here on the spending side. No one mentions, for example, only energy, HEP, the estimates are that 10% of HEP's income at the annual level is going to corruption or ignorance or infrastructure projects like the Water Centre on the Good in Lest where there are still dangers for our people to lose their lives or, say, a shameful example of Kosinj where the Kosinj field is going to sink, billions are involved, billions will disappear through it or, for example, those constant guesses to gas ends, the queens of renewable energy, kings who sell electricity from BiH, and the thermo power plant that burns to lignite, so the environment itself is further polluting, and on the other hand, it makes it impossible for people to move to energy transition themselves, to green economy and electricity production in an environmentally acceptable way, for example, the HEP as such brakes themselves to put solar panels on their own, and to 20 years in the next year. Why? For once again it is necessary to please the kings of gas, the kings of men who import oil from Arab countries, etc. So there's no protection for our little people, there's a problem. We're here to discuss again today some kind of health rebalancing that we've been waiting 30 years for some kind of reform. But the same, waiting lists are still growing, so health care doesn't have the right adequate service, and we're still increasing these costs today without having any efficiency in that matter. As far as the goods basket itself is concerned, there is the biggest problem because on our salary that does not grow, food grow, drink and tobacco that are quite used in Croatia. And now that this compares to greater spending because our budgets spend much more of these basic supplies than the EU actually uses, we are having problems, we are experiencing a particularly serious situation in the fall that people may actually be left without food. We didn't solve the problem energyically, the question of where it's going to come from because we replaced one gas addiction with another. HEP as such prevents people from becoming energy independent. There is a directive from the EU that requires that we say someone who puts solar panels have the right to a zero VAT rate. I don't see that it's the Ministry of Finance as such and it's really going, that it can help people, and with the social transfers that we sent, we did help some people with 200 kuna in the short term, but the people of several thousand kunas have increased their costs. So just remember the governor of the CNB who said that 8300 kuna is not much. Well, it's not for you who's got a master's kitchen, where you're better off eating than the Habsburg monarchy. But there are people who survive with several hundred kunas, and they've now increased costs that can't be controlled. We really got into a serious situation. And even now, it is all about political will to enter the euro area where we are in the fourth position ahead of us are only the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Slovakia and the Baltic countries ahead. And we're pushing for entry into the euro zone on totally insecure ground entering the euro zone and no one knows how it's going to end. That's where I'd stop now, so here's Miro for you, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111407	Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111408	Thank you. I'm sorry that he's not a minister here, because so much sleekness and perversion in government decisions mostly when they say here's the energy that 10% has collected to citizens only that's not a lie. She insults every man, Croatian citizen, peasants. I'll tell you a few examples. I'm from local politics, I'm here and I'm here all the time with these people, with that poor girl. Here's an example, you're the best in Europe for the least amount of energy in this crisis after the covid of terror, after the covid dictatorship, you've created chaos, you've accepted the game. Okay. Is it normal for you to collect 500 percent of the currents in mountainous and mountainous areas for local water pipelines? 500 percent. For example, the Cetina region water line, and so all the water lines, only the mayors can't say that because they're probably tied up by a party, 500 percent. What does that mean? That the current that pumps water to certain heights that you can get households, that means with 2 and a half million kuna, an example of the water line of the Cetina region last year, this year is HEP, Croatia's HEP is 10 and a half million kuna. Well, we'll just figure it out. In order for my colleague Troscott to tell me about the poor, I, as a responsible person, will order the water manager, although I am not the majority owner of 47% to pay you exactly as much as last year was electricity. It was 170,000 kuna, and this month, 900,000 kuna came in. For what? Because the government of Andrej Plenkovic is not like collected water, he did not collect electricity, so he will gather the local leaders. No, I won't! I won't! But you come in here and cut the water, and we'll pay for it last year, turn off the electricity, so some parts of Split don't have water, and only the water goes downhill will come. And it's even more embarrassing that HEP boasting about sponsorship, which is doing harmful projects. Our HEP must guard it, which has the most severance-sponsored severance di does not arrive, mainly its party members from HDZ. This same HEP is making chaos among these people, among the people, and now we mayors would trim to collect electricity 500%, five times to our citizens in rural areas. Mountain-mounted areas require more electricity for the pumps to raise water. Here I am giving the other mayors of HDZ a simple solution. Pay the wars like last year, instead of 100,000 kunas this year demand a million, you pay 100 as last year every war. And come you turn off Andrej Plenkovic, bring him to Sinjska Alka, I'll say di is true, I'll take him red wallpaper off the water, electricity. HEP Croatian HEP. For example, in the Cetina region 40% of Cetina gives hydropower to the Republic of Croatia. What did you bring back to Dalmatino Zagora? What did you bring back to face? Slavonia? What are you bringing back to that people? Except you're hitting the calf operators at the Misetic family. I see now some reported from the Homeland Movement, never mentioned, and I'm glad they accept. The Misetic family leads, here leads the meaning of Andrej Plenkovic because the president was in HDZ, well now he can, now it's acceptable. And I agree, it's written, so I agree, and that's good. From 8 kuna to 2 kuna and 40, from 8 kuna to 2 and 40 in favour of tele-op operator to damage unit local self-government. And I'm glad my colleagues are joining me. I've given this law three times. No one's ever raised a hand for him, at least no one, no one. So three years ago, there was a Law on the Right of Service and now it's in the process and I expect the President, mostly, to put that item under discussion. And also from the chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government, that after three years to push it here so that we have 3 euros per metre in Slovenia, the T-Com that Mudrinic handed over to the hand he handed over, i.e. HDZ started, SDP finished. So what do we have now? Should we forgive them for that money too? So how much did you reduce your income if you gave them 3 euros per metre, instead of proposing 2 kunas and 40. Or you're not the only ones who are all glad that they are now HAKOM brothers and sisters, the brother of this minister, that they are now that regulation that HaKOM has brought forward that the problem has been solved. No, they're telling you, the law is in the process where the telephony operators will be reduced, reduce the cost of the right path to harm local self-government, to the harm of local self-government. Teleopers are the biggest winners in the Republic of Croatia 42%. In the EU, a maximum of 20%. I first mentioned teleoperators when I entered the assembly here, for the first time, you know what was the cover of all teleoperators, all of whom we have in Croatia and this monopolist Tcom who is not Croatian because HT, the title was Bulja not to return us to the stone house, age. No, we're not asking him to bring us back to the Stone Age. God forbid, let them behave like they do where the states come from. Not to terrorize the Croatian people, and you allowed them to. Why? Because Misetic Dynasty affects Plenkovic so much And on you, especially HDZ, that you must not [[Intruder: Time.]] You're welcome to give me a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111409	Mr. Damir Bakic will represent the views of the green-left bloc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111410	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished representative of the ministry, good afternoon. First of all, two principled remarks on the positive side first, it is indeed a significantly greater availability of all data and review when looking for information and in this respect the ministry deserves praise. On the other hand, and this time we have missed, and we have also asked for this when the budget for 2022 was adopted, there has been a lack of review of all the projects and activities financed from the Solidarity Fund. So from the source 5761 5762. This is especially necessary now that the deadline for using these funds is extended which we did not know at the time of the adoption of the budget. The truth of such an obligation does not exist and technically speaking is not about the failure, but the situation is extraordinary and such a review would be useful otherwise, especially because there are confusing positions in post-traumatic renewal jobs which I will say a little more about later. In any case, such a complete review would help to look at the overall, overall picture of the intensity and dynamics of the renovations both in Banija and Zagreb. Compared to the original plan, total revenues increased by 6.5 billion, total expenditure by 10.9 billion. And now the deficit under this rebalance proposal is 13 billion and 700 million kuna. Compared to the original plan, the deficit thus increased by 4.4 billion. About as much for as much as the receipts have been increased. In other words, the increased deficit is covered by increased borrowing. On the other hand, these 13.7 billion deficits account for 2.9% of the projected GDP, with a deficit of only 2.1% of the projected GDP in the original budget. So we have almost 40% increase in the deficit expressed in the share of GDP, and this is probably the most spectacular and worrying data compared to this rebalance with the adopted budget. It is, of course, fair to say, part of the reason lies in our own decisions that are not related to global financial and geopolitical crises, which are reducing the VAT rate to some goods and services and that is, of course, a recent increase in the pay base for state and public officials. In the program section, as usual, the most controversial in health care. And now only half a year later, and that's already said enough in replicas, but I can't say again, after only half a year we have a new radical turn in fact step back. The funds for the rehabilitation of health institutions are increasing by 2 billion HZZO transfers by a billion and a half, de facto annihilated step taken in the adoption of the budget. And then it was very strongly highlighted and highlighted in the very reason that these funds were then reduced by 4 billion kuna. This is also reflected in the overall budget of the Ministry of Health because it is in '21. is both in the plan and in the execution of 22 and a half billion. Then we're in the original budget for 2022 planned at just 16.1 billion, now we're raising it to almost 20 and a half again. Now, whether it's a rectified delusion or a disenfranchisement in the state of health, we don't have the answers yet, but we will remind everyone, but absolutely all of the opposition were skeptical of the sustainability of such a strongly reduced budget of the Ministry of Health. Of course, the essence of the problem is already said today and the key solution is not in the Ministry of Finance but in the Ministry of Health. The renovation, as already said, is missing a full overview of all plans and projects or planned costs, and of course the change is expected. In the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction, State Property in Public Purpose Reconstruction Activities, the amount was raised from 5 to 9.5 billion, the funds from the Solidarity Fund, and in the same ministry, the damage caused by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb and the surrounding area was reduced from 1.2 billion to only 1 billion, down from more than 11%. Similarly to the Ministry of Health, the capital project to restore the health institutions damaged in the earthquake was originally zeroed in order to now be raised to 140 million parts from the NPO, part of the Solidarity Fund. Then this in the Ministry of Science and Education capital project reconstruction and infrastructures and equipment in the area of earthquake-damaged education increased from 572 to 605 million, then the capital project almost the same name grew from zero to 107 million just being about other sources, once it was the Fund of Solidarity of the earthquakes March, second time it was the Fund of Solidarity of the earthquake December, at the same time the same ministry. The capital project again almost with the same name just as it is about higher education institutions has fallen from a million, a billion and 184 million to just 735, which is only 40% of the plan, the source here is also the Solidarity Fund, so there is definitely a need for explanations and a full review. And finally a few more separate things. The first thing we said was, I asked the minister in the replica to his presentation, and I expressed concern that the funds intended for the transfer, the transfer from the state budget to HZMO for the amount of 19.1 billion kuna will not be enough to pay the pensions because pensions in the second part of the year will increase significantly, with the next significant increase in the cost of life. This may be the moment to remind me of something else, often mentioned, for example recently mentioned by the newly appointed minister and today it was mentioned, often mentioning the efforts made by HDZ ministers and the HDZ government to increase pensions. I would, however, like to say that an increase in pensions is something which is therefore regulated by law and is extremely strict and extremely precise. The law provides for a half-yearly pension adjustment at a rate that is the weight average of the wage growth rate and the cost of life growth rate in the previous half-year, there is no good will of the HDZ, it is simply something the law requires. Speaking of pensions, I'd like to point out something else. We have this ongoing project called improving the pension system through an increase in the adequateness of pensions, that sounds nice, the project is funded by a 14 million kuna NPOO. What's that? Here's a quote: it's about making professional studies on the viability of investment of compulsory pension funds in state-owned companies where privatisation is launched or planned by independent experts, and for the sake of greater inclusion of pension funds in investment projects. I have to express no multiple but multiple skepticism about it. I don't see any real basis for such a thing, I don't believe in the reality of this proclaimed goal, and I especially don't believe in the 14 million kuna cost for these studies, in the 14 million kuna cost this year and the planned 14 million kuna cost in budget projections for 2023. Two, and that's not news, but I want to point that out one more time. In the Ministry of Defence we have on activities called Administrative Support to the University of Defence and Security amounting to 24 million kuna and something more. For '23. As many as 74 million kunas have been planned in this position, for administrative support to the University of Defence and Security. In the law establishing this unnecessary university, it said that no additional funding is necessary for the implementation of this law in the state budget. That's exactly what Minister Banozic said repeatedly here in the assembly, defending the law, so I remind you this year 24 million, next year 74. Thirdly, it is unusually important in the Ministry of Science and Education we have an activity called Assistants in continuing for children with developmental difficulties raised from 26 million to 29, however, it is neither close enough nor close enough since at the end of this school year they stop touching funds for this purpose from the European Social Fund. The minister answered our questions and verbally and in writing promised a solution to this problem, promised to take care of the funding of the assistants in the follow-up for the next school year, we do not see it in this budget or in this rebalancing. Fourthly, let's go again to praise something, in section 0.20 The government of the Republic of Croatia welcomes the increase in activity, the amount of support to combating hate crimes, we welcome the increase in the amount of national protection and the promotion of human rights and the suppression of discrimination from 113 to 345 thousand, let alone thousands if they are not already millions, but we are glad to see and welcome the increase of these funds. Lastly, in the Ministry of Finance to the activities of A818068 called Contribution of the Republic of Croatia to the EU budget on the basis of unrecycled plastic packaging waste, we have an increase of as much as 150 million kuna, and now it is even, it is now as much as 20% more than we had in that position in 2021. This should not be so and this is about serious failure or the least said about inaction because it is a lot of money we could use on many sides for useful purposes, so we plan to pay it in this budget rebalancing as a penalty in the EU budget for not taking care of plastic waste. And finally lastly, this is not up to the budget, as has been said many times today, in reality here are representatives of the Ministry of Finance, and actually, in fact, this budget rebalancing is very much a matter of more importance to some other resolutions and it would be much more important that there are some other ministers here who should explain the increase or non-increase of many positions in their portfolios. I'll do something about the Ministry of Science and Education, or his inaction. So once again, this is not up to the budget itself, but to the extreme concern, I would say even to the ignoring of which the Ministry of Science and Education towards accurate education. In the National Development Strategy and in the NPOO, we planned, or declared, the highly set goals for raising the general mathematical and natural literacy of our students, but we did absolutely nothing to ensure the key element for achieving these goals, which is to address the difficult and rapidly growing lack of qualified mathematics and natural science teachers. It was also discussed at a thematic session of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture here in the Assembly almost a year ago. Conclusions have also been reached with proposals for concrete measures. The Ministry of Science and Education does literally nothing to reaffirm these professions and support the education of new generations of mathematics and science teachers, which is deeply devastating, not only because the money from the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism is available but also because we should do it for ourselves. There is no excuse for inaction in that sense, and even if we had already attached it yesterday, we would have seen or felt the first results in 5 or 10 years. Maybe later. And until then, even if we had started something, and at that time, as long as there was such trouble and much longer, we would have been, and like this we would be sentenced to a free fall.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111411	Thank you. Thank you. Now the Centre and Voice Representatives Club will represent Mrs. GLAS first. You're dark and you're Tarritating and then Mrs. It's a pulac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111412	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. In 2006, the difference between health system expenditure and income from contributions was just one billion kuna. At that time, in the pension system, the difference between income and paid pensions was already 12 billion kuna. To date, the pension system in the government budget deficit is always somewhere at around 4% of GDP. The health system is unfortunately going the best way to get close. And now, we can't do that anymore. So in the year of Covid, when there were fewer medical procedures, we grew significantly the cost of drugs, including very expensive, and the main issue is where money comes from for wholesalers. So the next step has to be reform, something the Ministry of Health will suggest, if this kind of dynamic remains, we're in the same place for a year and we haven't done anything. This is not my word. These are the words of the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Marić, at the meeting of the Assembly Committee on Health a little over a year ago, 16 April 2021. And say what? He was absolutely right, which is why I decided to quote him. The problem is that unfortunately it's good and he predicted that things would go further, so in the meantime, really, it's been a year and indeed, health care is on the same page and nothing's been done. Nothing. My colleagues and colleagues, nothing. Not that there was no reform, no reform idea presented itself to the public. Nothing. This health care system of ours is in a tragic state, money in unreasonable quantities leaks everywhere, and it's already obvious to everyone. The service citizens are getting is getting worse, and less and less we have public health, and more and more we are being referred to very expensive private. The organization at Ministry and Government level is nothing. So let's not forget, in the end, that we're still a country with very few vaccinations, and very many dead from the crown, and hundreds of thousands of doses of vaccines we've donated or destroyed, about the calls of conscience that I'm not talking at all. About the fact that the state doesn't know at all or doesn't want to know how many summons there are in hospitals. It is only now that Minister Beros has called the hospitals to provide him with information on how many doctors, gynecologists, anesthesiologists, nurses are in the call of conscience. Not because he's called to his senses and not because he's now said, my people, so there's a problem in health, things don't work, but because he's got a parliamentary inquiry, so I've asked, Minister, let's see what's going on. That's why he called to his senses, not because he thought something had to be done. That or why even now mention the protests that have been these days, but to mention thousands and thousands of people who are stuck with this failing system. Because they don't have a private clinic because they don't have a relationship, they don't have the telephone number of Minister Beros, or they haven't been lucky enough to run into a doctor or a nurse who, despite everything, is still professionally and committed to doing their job. And then we're exactly where we are. No reform. No procedures, no ideas. Rebalancing again and seeing miracles, he's leaving for health care again. The same story you've been telling for years. But, dear ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ, you boast that you have the longest-ever prime minister and the longest-ever government in Croatia's history. Well, then it's a shame that at the time you didn't, or at least not a single reform, you spent a team bigger for you. I'm not surprised that in our health care system, money leaks everywhere. We've seen how the minister behaves. The employees of his friend’s company work 112 hours a day, or 112 hours a day, paid the citizens as well as millions for a covid app they stole from the Internet and never worked. And it's this latest story with an intra-operial radiation device for the KBC Sisters of Mercy. Two devices were paid, one came. Where's the other respected Mr. Minister? Of course if we do everything according to model pay two, you get one health care run into bankruptcy. Otherwise, I have given 4 amendments to the budget for this year, which amounted to just 20 million kuna and covered the purchase of these intra-operative radiotherapy devices for 4 KBCs that do not yet have Zagreb, Osijek, Split and Rijeka. 20 million for four devices, of course you refused the amendments. And look at the wonders of my colleague Beros gets one for 11 million, good success. And now I'm asking you all together if that's how we can work and how our country can function? To be fair, one part of the rebalancing is the direct consequence of a combination of instability caused by the pandemic of covid and Putin's aggression in Ukraine. Unfortunately, we don't have much choice here. We must try to maintain things as much as possible in normal, especially because inflation is not in favour of our ambition to join the euro zone. A particular problem is energy and their price. The gas warehouse around for security-technical reasons takes 3 months to fill up, which means that for the winter season it should start filling very soon. I'd say in a month, two at most. I think at the end of the day the country will be forced to intervene as much as we do not appreciate it. In this respect, I am underprivileged funds to secure a 10m-euro gas supply as provided for in this rebalance. But there's something that's quite certain, which is that in a few months we'll see the rebalancing debate again and because of international circumstances that we can't influence. But there's something we can influence, these are our domestic unresolved problems. And the basic unresolved problem is Croatian health care. And that's why I'm asking Prime Minister Plenkovic and Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Beros for how long? How long without reform? Until when from rebalance to rebalance due to health problems because no matter how much you open a large niche with health care, no matter how much money you secure never enough. Of course we at the CENTR and GLAS club have this rebalancing as we have not supported the budget absolutely cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111413	Thank you very much. Mrs. Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111414	Here's a thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as one analyst said the other day, says even 11 billion kuna is not what it used to be. So the government is proposing a budget rebalance for 2022, which is nearly $11 billion for 10.9 billion, so it's almost $11 billion bigger than the original budget expenditure plan, and I'd say no one should blink. So in public, you don't have any big discussions about it, no debate. I don't think even a single Open, the Open didn't even organize on the subject of rebalancing as if no one was excited about these numbers. So here we have on one side an increase in expected revenue by 6.6 billion kuna. In some ways it may not be a surprise, however, the surprise is the increase in planned expenditures by 10.9 billion and 9%, respectively, compared to 2021 and 6% compared to the plan. Now that we're looking at the biggest expenditure increase where it's been, it's already been heard several times from this pay phone, so according to public functions, it's about 3 and a half billion dollars for health care, 1.8 billion for pensions, 1 and a half billion for the indirect consequences of the war in Ukraine, an increase in the defense ministry's budget, better filling up the stock reserves, taking care of exiles. 550 million kunas increase the cost of employees and the rest of those billions to some of the ten smaller items. When you read this, so there's a table in this one that's on top, there's actually no more. We can, and we're already here, and a lot of our colleagues have been talking, so we're just gonna talk about an increase in health expenditure. Once again, we have growth in health expenditures that some call recovery, but it's not any recovery, it's simply donations of new billions into a bottomless hole. Last year, 6.4 billion kuna was added to health care. These were therefore additional unplanned funds allocated in 2021 for the settlement of part of the debt of hospital health institutions for medicinal products, as well as auxiliary and sanitary material. Let us remember the already famous session of the Health Committee he participated in and Minister Maric, not knowing that the session is being recorded, transmitted and yelled at the health minister that this can't happen anymore. But apparently he can. I'm asking here's a respected minister who's not here, I asked him here in the replica how long can he do that? When they're going to say finally enough is enough. Here's what I offered him, and I donate that one T-shirt so that he can come to the government's meetings, to meetings with ministers, because apparently no one listens to him. What's the special problem here, though? So, it's not just a problem that we're going to shut up the new billion in health care, but the problem is that after this many donations actually prevails here's how the law of inert or the law of video games says again when you get to one level of a new level, a new plateau when you reach that level with those heights is no longer back. Once we've dried up it's now bezlain and that's now the basis from which we pour the money away. I will call again, and I often mention when budgets and budget rebalancing are the Commission for Fiscal Policy, which has been repeating one and the same remark for many years, and these are uncontrollable increases in health expenditure, primarily debts and obligations of hospitals and pharmacies towards suppliers. It is particularly worrying that the health sector generates a new debt between 400 and 500 million kuna per month. In addition, the coronary pandemic of the virus has not yet been completed and the potential for a new wave of one of the coronal strains carries the risk of an additional increase in health costs. Furthermore, I quote this all, so I quote, the commission proposes to the government to evaluate previous and current activities in the health sector in order to determine their affairs fiscal effects on the development of the economy. The Commission considers it necessary and necessary to assess the future risks of budgetary expenditure, in particular given the growing debt of the health system, as well as the public sector wage system and the significant potential liabilities related to the business of local public companies. So here we have a Commission on fiscal policy, which neatly here gives its recommendations, neatly, again year after year, stressing the need to undertake reforms that would limit the growth of expenditure on health, pensions and compensation for employees. So, one ear came in, the other came out. We need reforms on all fronts, so I agree with colleagues who said earlier that money from the EU will not come forever. So, this little bank of pigs, to put it that way, we won't be able to use that refund money forever. The economic stagnation of Croatia will continue after this crisis, pandemics and wars if they do not start to solve how we like to call them structural problems. So the public sector is not shrinking, it is not reforming, it has remained among the worst in the EU. Political personneling in state-owned companies is also continuing. The reforms of the judiciary are gone, no longer mentioned. Reduce parafiscal burdens on entrepreneurs so they can breathe, create new values if there is no such thing. Bringing order into state property. Reforming local and regional self-government, reducing the number of cities and municipalities, the county is just a dream that we occasionally mention from this pay phone. And I'm going to have a few details here as much as time allows. One detail, the protection of the coastal area, to see how many years we use to protect the coastal area in view of the great problems with maritime good. 245,000 kuna. And one particular question, and I'll leave it here to Mr. Secretary, when the minister is gone, the question and the answer of the Minister of Economy to my representative's question about the particular problem of resuscitating the slag in the factory, the former factory of Dalmatia Dugi Rat. So, in the amendment to the budget, I asked that 15 million kuna be reserved for the recovery, Minister Coric of 10.3.'22. He promised the ministry would start the recovery, but we don't see any sign of it here in the rebalancing process. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111415	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Damir Bajs' turn, in front of the counsel club, thank you, Representative Focus and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111416	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, allow me to refer on behalf of Club Focus and independent representatives to the proposal for amendments and addition of the state budget for 2022. I will stress that it is the result of the economic situation that is happening in Europe and also in the world, meaning that the economy is falling and inflation is growing. And speaking of inflation, then I'm going to point out that that's what I said to the minister, part of the economists think that inflation is a friend to the state budget, to the local budgets, to the parafiscal burdens, and to the enemy to the living standard of today's population and of course to the economy. What am I saying that for? Because by wanting to, not wanting to prove it, this budget, that proves the explanation that he's writing here. In fact, it grows by 11 billion kuna, which is logical if we know that inflation increased by 5.7% in January to already 9.1%) in April. This means that the same volume of goods simply increases the revenues of all the budgets. But of course we need to watch what we do with these funds, where these 11 billion kunas go? At the moment, most EU prime ministers have come out with a proposal for new measures precisely for the situation. They are aimed at the population and the preservation of living standards, and on the other hand, of course, the economy. In these 11 billion kunas in expenditure, we don't see it anywhere. In fact, it is quite evident that the only funds that are intended for the population at all are the payment of that package that was before the Ukrainian war before this situation happened to us. And according to the economy, no measures are foreseen. Let's just say the minister, but everyone else was quite clear about it. We'll just see what we can do if there's a situation like this. But let's do a little math now. If inflation is about 10 per cent, and this 9.1 in April there is an indication and the growth, for example, of pensions is 2%. And if this becomes as planned for the next two years, as the European Union and the Commission have finally indicated, this means that, in this case, the euro or a thousand euros will be worth seven hundred euros in purchasing power. And the citizens will get a raise that goes a long way for what inflation really is. Whether it's going to be 2% times three, six percent, whether it's going to be 4% for civil servants this year, so we're going to put 12 percent. Mostly when we narrow it down to basic mathematical operations, 30% will be a lower value of money, and wages will be 12% higher. In one quarter, purchasing power will almost be reduced in three years. That's something we have to work on. By this we also mean the Croatian Parliament, but especially the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Are there measures for this other than those indicated? Apparently there are. They are presented in a number of countries both the EU and the world, but should be implemented. These changes and budget additions turn out that the Republic of Croatia is not planning anything for the time being. Will they plan to see that? It will be too late and it will be too late to change the trends ahead. And when we talk about the fact that they're talking about supporting the economy. And why is that? We're with last year's I have to say very good, even excellent nearly 10% increased from gross national income. In this year, there was a 2.3% plan. But looking at what is now happening there is a huge slowdown in private investment and private initiatives. There's a danger of us getting into a situation where GDP starts falling. And I think at a time when a good part of the economy has special problems that it needs to be taken care of. Namely, as with the citizens where the price is actually not important oil started from 10 to 17 kuna or, for example, anything else when you enter not only the food part, but the non-food part where you buy anything. This is also true for the economy, so the prices of repromation in agriculture are almost doubled. This will also be seen at prices when they sell, but part of the economy when I talk about agriculture, for example, livestock is in a difficult situation and are planning a reduction. It's quite clear, the farms are being closed, the production is closing, so from chickens to chickens to livestock in full. There's just no financial results. And that's what we have to pay attention to. Our autocarers in these fuel prices, not solving their rights, are also in trouble. Of course, what is yet to come should not be ignored. That's what the minister indicated and I think he was right, and that's an increase in interest that will be interest on citizens' loans but also on businessmen. But not those interest rates that you get when you put money on the bill if you have them. You know that this is exactly what will lead to lower demand after that in one good sector and construction, but also investment in the economy. We do not see any measures on this issue, and we do not just touch the situation that a part of our companies is even the Russian market, and even Ukrainianly, it was not our dominant and most important, but it was not insignificant that they were dealing with the Russian market where the state in other EU member states has already jumped in and helped them. There's no indication of any activity at this point, so for me, it's not just the part about income that matters. It is clear that this inflation has led to higher revenues despite lower VAT rates. This means that it is paid at higher prices and that it is ultimately spent and more. But we don't see that we're getting ready for what's just coming, which is a further increase in inflation, a reduction in living standards and, of course, perhaps the most important economies. Because everyone would be worried if the economic growth projection fell from seven and a half to two and a half, and it still decreased. Of course, we can expect miracles. I know that tourism will do everything in its power to help Croatia. Almost a fifth of GDP goes through tourism, but we should not rely on it, because it is not a sign that tourism is strong but is only proof that the rest of the Croatian economy is weak. And that's actually a fact. Will those funds that come in help? It might, but in September when we get here and there's going to be a budget rebalance again, we're going to see if we're going to have a situation like this that we're actually seeing from afar. As a clear Ministry of Finance, I'm sure the Minister knows that, but I'm sure our fellow citizens do, too, but I have to tell the businessmen. And when I talk about the expenditure part that is in the budget, I won't repeat myself too much, but it's clear that healthcare will still be in trouble, that the reform is gone and that even without a crown, health spending a lot more than was predicted. I must, of course, suggest that we certainly need to address the issue of defence and therefore obtaining appropriate systems for anti-aircraft activities that we obviously didn't have. We need to help our friends from Ukraine who are now in Croatia, but this cannot be a taste of the totality of this budget while other countries have completely different and clearer goals regarding what is yet to come. So when we talk about this, of course, we can't support this kind of change and the addition of the budget. I will also point out that I have given the amendment once again to this case and our local story and policy, which means that the equipment of the General Hospital of Bjelovar for the second time will be accepted, I believe it may be, but it is also much more likely that it will not be in this, at this moment and in the budget there are therefore support for KBCs, according to the KBOs, according to a series of general hospitals and of course it should be helped and perhaps the hospital in Mostar, but it should not forget the support for hospitals owned by the county in the area of Croatia. The last time the secretary of state responded to my proposal said that that's how, we gave money to Mostar, we gave money to someone else, but unfortunately we can't help you now, we might get another answer this time. Accordingly, here it is, I will finish my presentation and what I pointed out at the outset we expect not only from the Ministry of Finance, the ministry is carrying out activities, but from the government headed by the prime minister to, as well as other states, come out clearly with a plan according to what is now happening, according to inflation growth, falling standards, falling economies, and that measures that are not measures before the Ukrainian crisis, but measures that are currently being applied, that is what everyone in the EU is doing, we expect to do so in the Republic as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111417	You, too. Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic will represent the Social Democrats Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111418	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. If I had to describe this budget with a single folk saying then I would say late Queen Marko to Kosovo Field arrives, and the road to Kosovo Field pays for whoever, the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia, you, me, Grandma Zdenko of whom I bought strawberries in Dolca this morning. Unfortunately, that's the way it is, why? And the time and money of taxpayers would have saved us that, if the government had listened to us seven months ago when we discussed this budget because it wasn't about expenditures that weren't predictable, it wasn't about adapting the budget to the new situation in the world, and we can talk about war and supply chains that weren't who they were anymore, no, it's about pure stubbornness, unideabilities and not having visions of a government that wasn't able to predict certain things that were highly predictable and that we were already warned about. So, as has been said so far that I am not repeating myself, but in one part I have to repeat myself, most of this budget is related to health care and this health system that was not burdened with covid or still is, but this rebalancing is not because of the covid, but because of the fact that the reforms are missing. Our health system hasn't improved, it hasn't reformed, there's nothing that would guarantee some savings or at least make the system more efficient, but we're over-supplying again, I'd say from hollow to empty, we're filling the hole that we know, that we're going to swallow everything again, and that we're going to have to recharge it again, and that's again as I said because of my lack of vision, and because of the fact that the ruling didn't want to respect some of the things that the opposition suggested, or which we could very easily have predicted. Because at the end of the day it seems that the Ministry of Health appears to be mud, setting up a tender for photographers and florists, and the health care is falling apart like Putin's gold, disappearing, taking off, and underneath, it's only what's what health care and what it really is, and that's one big and ultimately inefficient system that doesn't guarantee patients that they'll get the care they deserve, when and how much they deserve it, and they pay it expensive and we pay it expensive and we're doing rebalans for it. Unfortunately, this rebalancing has not offered any of what we would expect from rebalancing, and that would be amortizing the emerging geopolitical situation, that would be amortizing the accumulation, that would be amortizing the disturbances in supply chains, that would actually be a relief to our citizens of the emerging energy-gathering situation, which then brings general inflation behind them, it's missing, it's not, it's just that in this rebalancing, there's just as I said patching holes that won't serve anyone at the end of the day. And what we were actually expecting from the government was a much more determined position in the fight against attacks against the standard of Croatian citizens who have fallen behind again. We cut taxes, did it get results, as many times as it has not, not only this government let's be honest with each other there were governments who did this before, but again we warned from this speaker that it would not give the results we expect because it happened that either traders increased their margins or they remained the same, but for the final consumers, nothing changed. And what really worries is the idealessness of this government when it comes to amortizing these strikes because another blow is waiting for us, which I fear is constantly ignoring and minorizing, which is the introduction of a euro that is definitely going to generate additional inflation, has done so in all the economies that have introduced it before in all the countries, has led to some addition of the smaller or larger now we can talk about it in ways that it has been implemented, but the fact is that the collection will come. And if we add war to that in Ukraine, if we add covid to the crisis, and now the introduction of the euro, that means a repeated additional and continuous blow to the standard of citizens, and I'm afraid that the income side of our citizens is changing very little because I'm sure that when we recalculate kunas into euros, or wages, it's certainly not. If you're watching and how much energy our entrepreneurs pay, but then the households, you'll see that we certainly don't have some happy times, at least while this is the situation. And it is commendable that in some way this blow tries to amortize at least craftsmen, small craftsmen who can finally pay energy as a household because I'm sure that a hairdresser who works alone or one carpenter who works alone has really no reason to pay for energy like industry or entrepreneurship because as much as he or she can spend, it's really not some load on the network. But that's what I'm saying, at the end of the day, it's not enough. Our already-started economy, which is under the grip of various pressures, and thank God, there are them, and now through this war, simply this kind of budget rebalance, these kind of government measures, this lack, the long-term view of vision will do nothing good. And that's why I'm already light and tired of being a bad prophet here. And why is that? I'll tell you the same thing. Often by ruling, we are accused, so I don't know, maybe my colleague, Peovic, who is after me, will accuse us of only being able to criticise us, and we don't know anything constructively, that the opposition can't be heard, that what needs to be heard, or what it should be, but not and what it does. But what's tragedy, colleagues and colleagues, and it's actually part of one of our political unculture is when the opposition suggests something, that it's not respected because it's proposed by the opposition. And it's not a problem, so let it be a proposal and rulings in the end, but I'm afraid it often doesn't reach that level. For example, for example, my colleague Romana Nikolic and I criticised this very vocally here, the law on preschool institutions, i.e. preschool education, and we tried to transfer it to a local level, i.e. we tried to indicate what shortcomings were at local level. And here, just for your information, as well as information from the Croatian public, the town of Osijek is the only one of four major cities that does not co-finance the accommodation of children in private kindergartens and protection crafts. Not because we want to encourage private kindergartens, but because there is no place in city kindergartens. 5,000 children a year stay out of preschool, not because they won't, but because there isn't room. And then one of the four largest cities doesn't do it, or it doesn't help parents to price them, if they already have to give a child to a private kindergarten or a storage craft is about the same as those who can do it in city institutions. We're talking demographics. We had an example of a mother who came to Osijek with her husband and child, so they moved to Osijek, they didn't have a grandmother's service at the hall, they had no choice, they didn't have anyone to leave the child, the child couldn't get a kindergarten because at the time the mother didn't work, when she got the job, it was too late, the enrolments were over. Is that how we encourage demographics? The more your mother has to do now, the more she has to do for kindergarten. So their budget, the mother got the job not enriched, but everything she makes goes to kindergarten. If we're going to talk about demographic politics in these frameworks, then, colleagues and colleagues, we can turn off the light right now. And this budget rebalance, not the budget, and God gives me no indication now that this government seriously wants to tackle these problems. And then they'll tell you, no, no, no, the National Recovery and Resistance plan predicts the expansion of kindergarten capacity, but colleagues and colleagues, the competitions are already running late. Let's assume they're scheduled today, all of them. To report to local self-government units that are also kindergarten owners, I'm only giving you an example. To go without a fault means that they get the funds, to write out tenders for the performers, to get the performers to report, to have no complaints about the tenders, means that everything goes as fast as possible, the first kindergarten capacities we see, are new only in 2026 or '27. depending on the mode of realization, i.e. how fast the performer can do it. So we're talking about 4, 5, 6 years we have to wait. In the meantime, there are no compensatory measures. And now you're going to tell me that this government is demographically sensitive, to worry, let's say, about demographically threatened environments in Croatia, such as Osijek, no. I don't see it in this budget. And the budget, at the end of the day, colleagues and colleagues, is the personal identification of each government, political. Because it's not what we're propagating or want or what we're world-famous, it's in the budget what we want to do. And what are we doing in this budget? We're just patching up the holes. We're just going from hollow to empty, and we're hoping to keep it as long as possible. In the long run, this is a disaster. In the long run, this is a failure, in the long run, this isn't going to do anybody any good. And I'm sorry that on the side of the ruling people we'll often hear that accusation that we're not suggesting anything, that we don't have any concrete proposals, that we're just going to be foaming about what's supposed to be. But, colleagues and colleagues, it's important to look yourself in the eye now and tell the truth, and all those suggestions that hold water and all those suggestions that have heads and tails and all those suggestions that could contribute to the improvement are ignored by the ruling ones because they come from the opposition. I don't think it's a shame to say that someone saw a mistake or someone suggested something good, although for every proposal I'm assessing good I'm going to vote or from the opposition it doesn't matter, but at the end of the day I think we're too little to lose in some political debates about what anyone did or couldn't or could have wanted or did anyway. We need to be forward-oriented, we need to watch what we can do now and with the resources we have. And I'm afraid that this rebalancing is far from showing us all the government's senselessness, all the lack of the government's vision, and in the end, we're going to have to have at least one more budget rebalancing precisely because our rulings wouldn't listen to us in some of the crucial elements of the budget. And that's why the Social Democrats Club won't be able to support this rebalas. Because of what I've said, it's a personal political ID of every government we consider to be very bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111419	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Grozdana Peric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111420	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State and Treasury, here we have before us, dear colleagues and colleagues, with a rebalancing or alteration of the Republic of Croatia's 2022 budget with projections for '23. And '24. The Law on the implementation of the State budget together with the users, as well as the implementation of the budget for 2021. The revenues of the state budget as you have seen are based in 2022 on the expected trend in economic activity, taking into account the fiscal effects of tax changes under the value added tax and excise legislation system and the aim of easing inflationary pressure on the population and the economy. In fact, this Law on Amendments and Supplements is based on the Law on Value Added Tax, which entered into force on 1 April 2022 and despite colleagues saying that the amending budget, and that is also when the budget was passed, that it was unethical, that it was inadequate, that they had much better and smarter proposals, we did not see that these proposals were so much smarter and more significant that they could boast that they would significantly improve or create any document that would be sustainable. In fact, as I said in the Replica Minister, it is very quickly forgotten that it is in the previous and '20s. and '21. Thus, the pandemic years were maintained and tax reforms were being carried out, and very quickly it was forgotten that both the economy and the population were being displaced, and in this way it was actually possible for all those influences that were in order to lead to an increase in how personal incomes and also to stimulate both investment and the economy as a whole. So according to this, the economy has shown really great resilience, and yet thanks to the measures that were taken in the previous period, where these entrepreneurs were then also stimulated and supported by the measures the government was doing, and then when we talk about what the pandemic did, we mention more times how much the hole produced from the missing revenues and from those stimulants over 42 billion. So these changes and additions of the budget were now made in a way that at the same time this value added tax was significantly reduced by a large part of the goods and services as well as the energy products which had a strong impact on that and should have helped to precisely inflatoric pressures that were already present at the time that and prices were actually not actually so much, so significantly increasing. However, the new plan also shows in the realisation of the budget itself for the first 3 months that there has been an increase in revenue, and these changes increase revenues by 6.6 billion kuna, of which 1.9 billion kuna is precisely from VAT revenues because the normal base is higher. And also 1.9 billion out of contributions, and 1.8 from VAT. The rest actually comes from European funds. In terms of expenditure and expenditure, the total expenditure increases by 10.9 billion kuna to 184.7 billion kuna from 173.8 to 184.7 billion kuna. What's the most important thing? It has been mentioned here several times that the most significant item is for health expenditure. And when we look at what is financed from general incomes, which is 9.2 billion kuna. Then we see that from these general incomes is a recovery in health institutions, in health care is about 2 billion kuna. For pensions 1.8. For the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance a billion and a half. Filling in stock supplies for nearly 800 million kunas, including housing care for refugees. We also see that with the agreement reached with the trade unions, there is also respect for increasing expenditure for 4% employees, which is more than 550 million kuna in primary and secondary schools. In state administration authorities, the increase in energy prices requires new funds of nearly 245 million kuna, and also support in the agricultural sector is about 200 million kuna. The funds have also been increased for the Republic of Croatia's contribution to the budget of the European Union of 169 million kuna, as well as support for the preservation of jobs, investment for health infrastructure, guarantee reserve, implementation of operational programme projects, effective human potentials. Then for sport and real estate management, as well as to provide gas and national minority programmes. All this suggests that indeed the biggest users and consumers are just health care, and then social protection, because we need to note that around 3.8 billion kuna has been allocated for pensions and projects under the Operational Programme, effective human potential precisely as is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy and General Public Services, Economic Affairs, etc. So when we look at who is the biggest consumer such as health care is true, it is true that we also need to make a thorough analysis. But we must also be aware that certain actions and certain reforms could not be implemented at the time of the pandemic. And I wonder if anyone would dare do that at a time when we've had too many deaths anyway. When we look at the changes and the budget additions themselves, so the budget deficit is going to be, it's planned at $13.7 billion, which is 4.3 billion higher than the previous plan. This overall deficit will be significantly greater. However, it will continue to be within what is given, so below 3% and will be 2.9% of GDP, which is below 0.9% and percentage points more than it was in 2022 with a baseline plan. When we talk about the law itself on the implementation of the state budget here, I would also mention that the Committee on Fiscal Policy has also given its opinion, two opinions on the same and the proposal for an annual report for 2021, and also on the rebalancing where, as the report says, they also mention reforms in the health and pension systems, and also warn of certain risks that I have risked and the changes themselves have already been installed in much of what I am rebalancing and shows. I would like to point out that, as the Minister pointed out, it is completely changing, in line with the Budget Law adopted, as well as the entry into force at the beginning of this year, and in this way, the Law itself allows for a much faster and more efficient application of certain provisions, simplifies some procedures, the possibility that users can manage over a period of several years, so at least three years of funding that they may have available from European funds, etc. Therefore, all that the Budget Law has now provided for by the Implementation Act is indeed and enables it to be applied to rebalancing itself. What I would still point out for the execution of 2021, so, in 2021, even though it seems to us that it has long ended in 2021 and has been achieved at 154.1 billion kuna or 0.3% more than the plan compared to the previous year, so these revenues have been increased even by 17.1%)%, expenditures have been made at the level of 169 billion kuna and that is 97.5 percent of planned expenditure. What should be noted, therefore, in 2021 was also a very demanding and difficult year, however, what is important to say that exactly the most significant expenditures in 2021 were made within the pension programme and pension income of $43.5 billion, while for staff expenditures, including in primary and secondary schools, 33.5 billion kuna was allocated. At the health ministry's positions, more than 17,5 billion kuna were allocated, of which more than 6.4 were additional funds to settle part of the debt of hospital health institutions to which the founder of the Republic of Croatia was. So, in that year, what I have previously mentioned has also led to some changes, both in tax, therefore in fiscal policy, where there have been significant changes and in the burden or discharge of entrepreneurs and citizens. All of this has to be noted that in 2021, increased expenditures were also for the purchase of aircraft, and also that a billion and a half were compensatory measures for local self-government units, which we must never forget. Here, according to that, as simple as anyone thinks it is, this is The HDZ will accept this proposal to amend and supplement. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111421	Now, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Dragana Jeckov, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111422	... Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished representative of the Ministry of Finance. [[Specially enabled.]] As we all know, the state budget is a dynamic area and must monitor the blood count of society and economy, so in this sense today we are also discussing this first year's rebalancing. State budget for 2022 that we've brought in 8.12.21. It envisioned revenue of HRK 164.5 billion and expenditures of nearly 173,8 billion and a budget deficit of 9 or 2.6% of GDP. That deficit was planned to be financed by the difference between the total receipts from financial assets and borrowings and the total expenditure on financial assets and the repayment of loans. With the rebalancing we are currently discussing, budget revenues are increasing by 6.6 billion kuna or 4%, and expenditures by 10.9 billion kuna so that the projected budget deficit will be increased from planned 2.6 to 2.8. Rebalance is simplified, can be reduced to three main reasons. Energy crisis, agreement with growth unions, basic pay and health expenditure. In any event, it should be noted that expenditure marking the resolution of the security situation in Europe as a result of the war in Ukraine, the appropriate reception and disposal of Ukrainian refugees, gas supply insurance, supply of supplies, an increase in the base for the calculation of salaries in state and public services by 4% of 1.5th, and the provision of funds for the measure to mitigate energy prices, including the subsidisation of gas prices and the compensation for the threatened buyer of energy. A good part of the amount covered by this rebalancing, namely 3.12 billion kuna, refers to the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, Family and Social Policy, so that the new minister will have considerable funds we hope to use in the right way. I point out that the funding of the transitional period, or project Zaželi, has been positively accepted. I spoke about the importance of this project several times after this speaker and also, I mentioned in the debate on the State Budget for 2022, so they are very pleased that the voice on the ground, especially the rural areas I have carried here, has been understood and accepted. Not to mention now that 748 projects have been agreed through the previous two phases. More than 9,800 women employed who cared for 79,000 elderly and powerless people throughout our country. These commendable projects were generally implemented, as I said in harder accessible and rural areas, in areas where the unemployment rate and the rate of long-term unemployment are higher than the Croatian average. The programme is multiplely useful, both from the perspective of women employed, from the perspective of users or older people and persons in a more unfavourable position and often employed women and users used to say that this is a concrete and extremely tangible project to be continued. For this reason, it is important after the short transition phase to get to a safer place, that will be dominated by EU funds and, as I said, which will be longer. The compensation for the threatened buyer of energy has also been changed and has increased from initial 120 million to slightly more than 380. The status of the threatened buyer or the right to co-finance energy costs may be achieved by the beneficiary of the guaranteed minimum fee and by the user of the personal disability up to a maximum of 400 kuna per month. Of course, we are all aware that this measure is not a solution to the problem but possibly its mitigation, but certainly something to point out. As members and representatives of the Serb national minority, they cannot praise the increase in funds in the Human Rights and Rights Office, especially those concerning the national minority programme. However, it continues to worry that a little less than 170 thousand kuna is intended to support the fight against hate crimes, which is certainly a significant step towards the initial 40,000 kuna. Reports of absolutely all the competent authorities of the Ombudsman, the above mentioned Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, and some bodies of international character such as the Advisory Committee for the Implementation of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, say that the situation in the hate crime sphere is getting worse every day, and therefore perhaps the opinions themselves should have been allocated to more significant resources in this item. And according to the statistics available by the MUP during 2021, they were treated for 101 crimes motivated by hate, crimes with elements of hate crime and the criminal act of public inciting violence and hatred, while 87 of these were recorded in 2020. So here I'm talking about the criminal sphere, so I hope we agree that the $170,000 mentioned to support the fight against crime is not enough. Unfortunately, the state of war can get out of people the worst, that some live on the torture of others, moral perversions get a special place, bad people in these situations don't survive from anything, so in the media, we can read about situations that talk about increasing human trafficking. Merchants mix with the population, offer transportation and, of course, grow fears that those who were happy enough to avoid death in Ukraine could be victims of human traffickers. It must be a long-term threat to both women and children in this area. The threat was strengthened by the conflict and the UN's International Organisation for Migration has already warned refugees fleeing the country to guard such traders who want to use a chaotic exodus. In this regard, it is unclear for me that we have a reduction in the resources foreseen for the implementation of the National Plan to combat human trafficking to 255,000 kuna. Although the budget of the Ministry of Science and Education has increased by 15 million kuna for some reasons, there was no room to increase the amount intended for the education of members of national minorities, regardless of what individuals think of minority education I think it would be good to increase the funds for preschool education for children members of national minorities because the funds continue to be allocated according to the formulas under sublegal acts at the end of the 1990s. After a significant recovery from the pandemic of the Coronal Virus in 2021, new challenges such as geopolitical tensions emerged, continued supply chain disturbances, financial market instability, and all of this occurred in the context of rising inflationary pressures. This, of course, results in strong challenges in creating economic policy, as well as fiscal policy, which needs to respond in due time to current and projected socio-economic changes in the domestic and foreign environment. The SDSS advocates' club will support the draft amendments and additions to the state budget law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111423	The Honorable Representative Daniel Spajic will speak on behalf of the House Movement Representative's Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111424	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In December 2021, I also spoke about the budget of the Republic of Croatia, pointing out two things, where I ironically praised the government of Andrej Plenkovic and his budgetary tractorists. These two commendations were like this: the first recovery program of 2 million kuna. So, for being negatively selective and corrupt, you expelled more than 10% of the population of the Republic of Croatia later, you went to some ridiculous amounts of people trying to come back. Of course, that didn't work. Unfortunately, we still have negative trends as far as that goes. The second commendation referred to an increase in the budget to fight corruption. You've singled out 18% for this item. When you say 18% that sounds a lot if it's about, for example, 10 million kuna, but if it's about 14000 kuna where the increase is from two and a half to 16 and a half thousand kuna, for a country that's third to corruption in the EU, then we know we didn't do anything. If Croatian citizens know that the average pension rate in the average salary in the last six years has dropped from 43 to 38%, it is one of the smallest in the EU. More and more of our pensioners are living below the poverty line, although as many as 17 and a half billion kunas of tax revenues are being transferred to cover pensions. If Croatian citizens know that the dueiosis in the health system is untransparently spreading and things are spreading, the ministers are hiding like a snake's feet. It is certain that some 22 billion kuna will be collected through contributions, and another five billion through participations, additional, health donations from the bill. It was certain that some 8 billion kuna would be missing in the following year, which would eventually have to be managed from the Republic of Croatia's budget. That's one of the reasons why we should be doing the rebalancing we're doing right now. The government also boasted that the share of public debt in GDP will fall in the coming years to levels that are among the smallest in the European Union. It's true, but the truth that hides real problems. After Milanovic's government, which owed the state between 70 billion and 80 billion kuna, we thought it couldn't go up there. In this, however, we were denied by Andrej Plenkovic with his trade coalition, which has been in charge of over 100 billion kuna since 2016. So where's the money? What makes Croatia a better country after spending all that wealth? 100 billion kunas we could have had our money under the quality management of state property, but we didn't. That's where we get the embarrassing 2.4 billion kuna. It is clear from the budget that we will allocate 7.3 billion kuna to interest on these debts, which is enough for every underage child in the Republic of Croatia to receive a children's allowance of 850 kuna per month, and this would be the right measure and the right of every child, not the social category and what we are giving which doesn't encourage our people to stay in Croatia. This would be one of the good measures. The budget also mentions the amount of 790 million kuna to take care of the returnees, refugees, and that amount goes up to over a billion next year, and over 3 years we will reach some 3 billion kuna. Then we didn't know what kind of exiles, refugees. I asked questions more than once, no one knew how to answer. But after the terrible war in Ukraine and the arrival of certain refugees in the Republic of Croatia are welcome and they need help, the only question is whether the Government knew what the situation in Ukraine knew before informing Croatian citizens, so it put it in the budget item? That's the question. At the same time, the help of returning Croats to Bosnia and Herzegovina will be a ridiculous 5 million kuna. So did we invest that we have Komsic on HRT "Sunday at 2" while the Croats breathe on the gills in Bosnia and Herzegovina, did we invest in it? You've invested 100 million kunas to promote a real or functional merger of local units. There were 80 splits to 500. So what do we want to do now? Does that mean they weren't functional before? Well, they're not. So they need to be abolished if they're not functional, not investing an extra 100 million kuna. What are we paying for? Thousands of pages of various documents and different nebuloses that smell seriously of corruption, instead of using a historical opportunity to launch in the EU funds Croatia and put on the pathways of sustainable development and demographic recovery, from budgets and rebalances, it is certain that we will lose an additional 4.5 years and even deeper into structural problems. When it comes to the rebalancing we're talking about today, budget expenditures rise by 6.6 billion kuna. Just as much as it takes for the budget deficit to be slightly below 3% to avoid jeopardising the European Union's decisions to approve the euro, well planned. It's a shame only for Minister Beros and his team that the government unfortunately has to respect this limit, he'd get more money for his black holes in health care. The main sources of funding for this rebalancing are increased tax revenues and further charity from the European Union. We have already repeatedly warned that budget revenues are already seriously dependent on EU aid. How are we going to worry about the budget when that 20% of the income disappears one day? Those of us who don't have plans to be in the Brussels offices and embassies then are very interested in how our public systems are going to work. And the opinion of Brussels and the view from there is the most important guideline for the management of the Croatian Minister, which is unfortunately what you showed yesterday when you said what inflation is speeding up and it will be two-digit. But it did not concern you because it does not go beyond the European Union average. So I don't care with all due respect what it's like in Bulgaria. We fight for ourselves. The fact that professors and pensioners will get raises that are significantly less than inflation doesn't worry anyone. The government boasts this morning that the pensioners will be given nearly half a billion kunas for energy subsidies, and the difference between inflation and pensions is several times higher. We raised pensions by 2.5%, invested 900 million kuna when our inflation was over 10%. Well, it's no help, we have to be realistic. The pensioners, like the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, breathe on gills. The largest source of additional revenue for financing this rebalancing is taxes, including a higher profit tax of over 800 million kuna. So again, extra pressure on the economy. I don't know if Croatian citizens know that our emigrants are 3 times more paid in Croatia than all foreign investors. Almost 6% of GDP makes payments from our emigrants in Croatia that are being paid in Croatia. They were even about 7% of GDP before this crown crisis. So we don't have a good climate in the Republic of Croatia, we don't have foreign investors, not because we have kuna because kuna is a stable currency, but because we have a corrupt country. But here, let's set aside 16 and a half thousand kuna to fight corruption. It's a shame to read this. What else could I possibly do? Well, the biggest beneficiary of this rebalance should be noted that it's healthcare again. When the budget was adopted, we pointed out that he was unrealistic in the health care area, that the health hole would amount to billions of kunas, which has now been confirmed by the fact that only part of that black hole was being covered. The rest is left for future periods, and Beroš and his florists and release consultants and suppliers continue as they were. What about health reform? Well, this Berosch is gonna wrap the whole country black with all the manifesto. The transparency of our budget which is a cabbage of several hundred pages best tells the fact that the largest individual item of increase has a name to watch this transfer between budget users of the same budget point. Whoever figures out what it is to let the public know, I'd like to know the same thing. I think in the tenth month, they're coming from Beroš's new covid certificate, because the people will slowly understand the state's situation. He'll want to go to the protests, but then he'll step on the main guy to stop the protests, all the traps on our dear Minister Willy who'll probably introduce a mandatory covid certificate, keep the people on a tight leash so they can't accidentally rebel against it so they don't get out on the streets. I think it's gonna happen sometime in 10 months, but here's what I said. You were alive and seen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111425	The next club of representatives will be the one for a just Croatia, and the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111426	Honorable chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. I can't help but start my presentation today with a sentence that most people won't like. Our citizens are killed by inflation, while the state is collecting more and more taxes and wasting them in a frenzy. It's my vision of today's rebalancing. The total revenues of the State budget are increasing by 4% and 6.6 billion kuna, respectively. The government's income, therefore, from the value added tax that the state raises by $1.8 billion and totals €62.6 billion, and the revenues from the state's contributions are increasing by $1.9 billion and totaling €28 billion. Since the state has already collected more money, it's time to spend it more. However, more will be spent than has been collected, so 9.2 billion total increases in our country's expenditure. The fact that inflation in Croatia reached 9.4% in April was no reason because it was obvious that the monthly rise in consumer prices would not be easy to stop. The trend in price growth has so far reflected the purchases that began to cause global congestion and supply chains, and now data integrate the consequences of the geopolitical crisis caused by war aggression in Ukraine. Although the majority of domestic economists in their analyses are trying to stick conservatively, they remain on the forecast of moderate price growth now becomes clear that we still need to expect the transition of inflation even to a two-digit number which will obviously not be recognised by the Ministry of Finance today or by the Croatian National Bank. But citizens see what's going on. Citizens have long been in fear and sound logic tells them that we are not ready to face this crisis. And why didn't we? For many years, our citizens have been waiting for their promised changes, they expect health reform, they expect reform of the justice system, reform of agricultural policy, reform of the administration. What have we got all these years? The crumbs from the table. About the health system a little later, considering he's one of the reasons for the rebalancing. But first I want to talk about our country's food addiction, because it worries me the most. For example, German Minister of Economic Co-operation and Development Sven Schulze has warned very realisticly these days in the Bild talks that the world is at risk of an acute crisis due to dizzy food prices. The situation is very dramatic because of the pandemic of the coronary virus, extreme droughts and war in Ukraine, world food prices have increased by a third and are now at a record level. The World Food Programme currently estimates that more than 300 million people suffer from acute hunger and constantly has to correct the figures by increasing its estimates. It's a bitter message that we've been threatened by the greatest crisis since World War II. Millions of people will die said Schulze. She equally commented on whether it's okay, for example, to turn German grain into green fuel when people all over the world are starving. No one wants to be responsible for increasing the number of hungry people in the world, we have to stop putting food in the car tanks whether it's wheat, palm oil, rape or corn. The share of 4.4% of fuel is food for humans and animals. This should be reduced to zero, not only in Germany, but as much as possible at international level. In Germany, 2.5 billion gallons of vegetable oil fuel is poured into car tanks each year. That's almost half a harvest of sunflower oil in Ukraine she added. Putin uses hunger to wage war. It takes advantage of the fact that many countries around the world depend on Russian and Ukrainian agricultural products. He stole grain from Ukraine and will export it to countries that are undoubtedly pro-Russian-friendly. At the UN General Assembly, 40 countries in which half the world's population lives did not condemn Putin's aggression. This is a concrete result of food blackmail vulnerability, she also said. What about Croatia? Is the mega crisis coming to us, too, and what will this rebalancing bring about positively? Inflation in Croatia feels the most citizens on their skin, prices rise, consumer baskets are increasingly expensive, and the end is not seen for now in these geopolitical relations. The crises have different sources, so the crisis in 2008 and 2009, respectively, had a spring in the decline of the US's bad credit markets, and this has spread to the EU as well as to Croatia. Since the 2009 crisis, where gross domestic product has fallen more than 13%, Croatia has recovered for about six years. Now we have this price hike shock above all the energy. Energy accounts for about 65% of total price growth and the energy shock we are experiencing now can lead to a reduction in economic activity which will also have its consequences. Russia's aggression in Ukraine has burdened the market further, so there are now a number of different manipulationists who think they can make a profit on oil and buy it at high prices to resell it at even higher prices. Europe and Croatia were dependent on rather cheap Russian gas, and now it is difficult to change this habit of consumption of Russian gas and to turn to some other energy products, especially if you are a country like Croatia that has limited its citizens to energize themselves, and in parallel, rather similar to some other occasions, you have enjoyed certain individuals. Our citizens are interested in the answer to the question whether we are at the top of the price collection of food and energy, or whether the peak is still waiting for us? If food production were our local thing in which we wisely and systematically invested, we certainly wouldn't have come into today's price-dependence situation and the quantities dictated by other countries. Equally, we did not benefit from large systems at the expense of small family economies, surely we would not be worried about the lack of basic lifespans such as milk, meat. It's simply unacceptable to transport food thousands of miles away. Those who do not have enough food production today have serious problems. On the Croatian market, frozen chicken came from Brazil, beef from Argentina, which is all very expensive nonsens. Croatia has great potential for food production, and the ruling ones are obliged to organise local food production. Public procurement in Croatia has so far preferred low prices, so public institutions when they were getting food bought chicken from Brazil because it was the cheapest. But is it good for the domestic market, for people who consume it, for the Croatian economy? No one's even thought about it. That's why things are changing tectonically now, and in the coming years we'll see how this monetary policy and the reduction of money in circulation and the impact on inflationary movements and in general on the market. And now for a little bit about health care. I simply must say a few words about the device intended for the KBC of the Missile Sisters commendably, of course, because it is about the purchase of medical equipment for the Wine City Hospital, but that same device has been overpaid by 111%. Let us also mention the fact that USKOK has launched reconnaissances in the event of disputed payments by the Ministry of Health, Kuspis, owned by ministers of friends Vinko Kujundzic, who received contracts for the upgrade of information programmes. Kuspis only charged $1.75 million for 12 days, with their money being paid back in 2020. According to the State Audit report from the payment documents on the basis of which you account for services and paid an account, it is not clear how many persons there are and at what extent, but at what time period these services were performed, so they issued a warrant to the Ministry to verify the truthfulness of the invoices before they were settled. It is not burning in the context of this story to remind that Minister Beros and Kujudzic also co-operated on the "Break Up" platform, which still experienced its fiasco. Meanwhile, the Croatian public finds out that Kujundzic is a close friend of Minister Beros, and that they are still flying together in the same place. Otherwise, Kuspis grew up from London Kuspis, whose co-owners were Vinko and Maja Kujundzic, and its business flourished in 2018 when Beros became assistant to former health minister Milan Kujundzic. The health minister has not solved debt problems according to large-scale drugs that exceed 5 billion kunas, nor is the end of the waiting lists problem seen. If he's going to, he's going to, but this rebalancing is going to help us too, so let's all see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111427	Thank you very much. Now, before we continue, it is my great pleasure that after two years of not having visitors at the gallery we can welcome the students of the Croatian Faculty of Communications Studies in the course of business communication colleges, so I suggest we welcome them with applause. And now we will continue to work, and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, the respected representative Katarina Peovic will speak. [[Applause]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111428	Good afternoon. Hello to the students of communicology. And so I asked what the Minister will do this morning or what the State will do if there is an increase in the ECB's interest rates and if they produce a recession means an additional rise in interest rates and if they produce a recession, a drop in production, an increase in unemployment and a rise in public debt, whether we will be able to implement anticyclical policies that would ensure the compensatory growth of public spending or continue to implement policies of financial consolidation and correct the European Stability Pact semester, etc. So we know that the crown is that these rules are suspended. The minister said it's already happening. So that's true. So, the question was how much interest rates would be raised, especially after the euro was introduced. What we must note and what many here have said is that indeed of those 5 criteria for the convergence of price stability, interest rates, deficit, public debt, the stability of exchange rates prescribed by the Maastricht Treaty in 1992 for the accession of new members to the European Monetary Union or for the entry into the Eurozone of Croatia for years meets the criteria of public debt below 60% of GDP in recent years or by the corona of the crisis does not satisfy the general government deficit criterion below 3% of GDP, and since this year it does not satisfy a significant third criterion for the macroeconomic implications of the most important price stability criterion, which says that the inflation rate must not be higher than 1.5% of the average member rate with the lowest inflation rate in the previous year and according to current trends, it is likely that from the entry of that criterion will be even more pronounced by the end of the year. But it seems that the people of the government, and especially the people of the CNB, don't put it in place. I will warn that in itself, the very definition of the purpose of the function of the target and any sense of the CNB stands as the first and primary objective, means control of inflation. They obviously don't deal with it. It's obviously not their question at all, nor do they think it's their goal. They generally act as if everything was imported, we do not have any mechanisms to deal with it, and by entering the euro area the CNB will actually further resolve any responsibility and transfer all responsibility to the euro area and integration, further integration means in the European and financial framework, and I think that the CNB function itself is becoming questionable at all. And we from the Workers' Front are actually calling for the CNB to be renamed because it is really and essentially not the Croatian National Bank. The people have nothing to do with their existence. But what neither the government nor the CNB is going to address is that of these meanings of the convergence criteria we really need to notice are not respecting any of them. And what's the same thing to say is a cynical argument is when you say that we don't meet the convergence criteria, that it answers you that it's about all the happiness that we're going into the Eurozone because I don't think normal conditions are even going to be able to get into the euro area because we don't meet the convergence criteria as if by some principle I mean neoliberal policies we shouldn't meet those criteria because of someone else, but I guess because of ourselves, because then we can't talk about any integration into financial flows, nor can we talk about any convergence if we go into the euro zone, and we're not ready for it. Well, that means people from the government or the CNB don't get too set up. They push us into the eurozone at all costs, regardless of the criteria and consequences of introducing the euro for the working majority. In any case, we can only conclude that they are counting that their standard will not be questioned, in particular, by the people of the CNB who set their own salaries and these salaries are far more than any pay in the public sector anywhere. The minister said that the share of public debt in GDP is reduced each year, except for 2020 when the crisis was corona. Of course it's shrinking, but it's not below 40% as prescribed by the Mastricht, and in recent years, the crown has increased as well as the deficit. But now inflation is really a key problem. Both the criteria and the conditions that we are not meeting right now, and towards the end of the year and approaching entry into the euro, it is only likely that the situation will get worse and worse. Unless, of course, interest rates are further raised and recessions are produced which will reduce inflation, but public debt and budget deficits will grow. The thing is, therefore, and I mentioned this this morning that we in the EU as well as other countries are now allowed not to adhere to the criteria of the Stability Pact, the European Semester because of the crown, because of all the extraordinary conditions. But when inflation is actually happening, when this inflation is wild, it is quite likely that it will start to insist on it again, and actually I think, from the point of view of the conditions that this budget has put to itself as a framework, we cannot say that the budget is shocking or that it is expected in the frameworks that he has set for himself, but does not take into account what will come. So we haven't fallen as far down as we can and how much we're going to fall, especially when we enter the euro area. And then again, as in 2010 to 2015, we will have an extended recession, because the state will no longer be able to use anticyclical micro and macro-economic levers, i.e. it will not be able to stimulate aggregate demand through public consumption, investment. So we're known to have stayed the longest in that crisis in 2008, the ninth year. We can expect this to happen again. So this neoliberal Stability Pact that restricts the ability of the state to borrow, i.e. deficiently finance investment spending, is indeed only temporarily put out of force. Between 2015 and 2019, I also think that often it is not mentioned at all in these discussions and actually serves as a cheap balling between the SDP and the HDZ, but it means between 2015 and 2019 we also had a conjuncture as well as other countries, so that's why the deficit, public debt was reduced, and then Corona came. The European Union has allowed countries to freely borrow, spend, in order to compensate for the fall. Now there is no crown, or it is not in that symbolic sense that it is imposed as a major issue and has inflation and is announced to raise interest rates. With this in the package comes the return of restrictions on state spending, but we're not exactly going to hear the meaning of HDZ, that's not exactly what you're going to say, although in some way Minister Maric said that in response to my question because it's actually real. But if I look at myself from a narrow perspective and repeat what I can do, which I can't think of, we can't talk about rebalancing in some negative way. What could be noted is a criticism of some broader policy being conducted here by non-progressive policies, and above all there is thought of tax reforms initiated by Minister Maric. Five tax reforms, five waves of income tax reform, which are all in turn, were indeed what one of our late economists said in the fifth bourgeoisie reform, the reform for the petty bourgeoisia, those over 25 thousand kunas got the most. So people with salaries over 25 thousand kuna got the most of these tax reforms, 1500 kuna more on the salary, while those with salaries of about 10 thousand kuna got only a few hundred kunas, and those with less than a hundred kunas. So it's really about those who already have high salaries going hand in hand not taking into account that, I think, in Croatia where we have some of the lowest salaries and minimum and average salaries, it's really important to raise the salaries of most, working majority, so the working majority of them, almost 90% have salaries below 15 thousand kuna. So who did we hit here? Certainly not to that majority, is it? Not only is it good for them some aspect of social justice, but it's really good from the aspect of the economy because it's about people who spend on basic food, hygiene needs, meaning not on luxury. Consumption is indeed what would stimulate our economic growth, and when we talk about it, we really are, and that's one of the indicators of how poor we are, the very large percentage of wages are spent precisely on these basic food and hygiene supplies, in richer countries, that percentage is much smaller. In our case, people are really spending on what is most necessary. Such tax reform would also encourage economic growth, not to mention that we could speak and plan smart social and economic policies that would go towards encouraging our pharmaceuticals, and therefore we will certainly support our amendment by supporting larger investments, a larger amount for the Immunological Institute, which again, I think, in this budget, i.e. the budget rebalancing of the budget, without some significant figures, even though it is said to be renewed, that it will build, I don't think it's realistic either by this budget or by budget rebalancing. Or, for example, it could be invested in the food industry, food self-sufficiency would be increasingly important, and it was quite likely how important it was and how much work should be done at the time of the crown and I remember a statement by Minister Marić, which I might frame and put here, as a relic, I don't know what kind of moment because I really welcomed her, at the beginning of the Corona Minister Maric said, we just know and understand how important it is to develop our food industry and pharmaceuticals, and we will focus in this direction. I mean, it was that one sentence, and unfortunately after that, it wasn't exactly a revolutionary progress in that direction, but I would say, I would certainly welcome the policy. But well, that would be some progressive policy, I say, within this budget rebalance we don't have some, I mean, criticism or any comments because it's more or less, and I mean, within the limits, as it says, possible. In any case, by rebalance of the State budget for 2022, the biggest increase in expenditure financed from general incomes and receipts was planned, meaning for health recovery, 3.5 billion kuna, here we can only say that the opposition really warned that the budget was not realistic about health, there they were, would all in the opposition agree more or less and warn that there would come a rebalancing which is coming, but it certainly is expected. For pensions, so what has increased in the rebalancing, that is, that is, pension expenditures, 1.8 billion, expenditures related to the consequences of the war in Ukraine 1 billion and expenditures for employees of 550 million kuna. All negative aspects of dissatisfaction with these convergence conditions, in particular the inflations I mentioned, should not be broken on the back of the weakest. The tightening of the belts, meaning the classic, fiscal contractions, the break of those criteria to the most endangered, but it means now according to this budget rebalancing and at this point, we're afraid we're not seeing the worst yet, is that, that the worst is actually just going to come. That would be in principle, so as far as the amendments are concerned, we will stick to some of our standard places that no one will warn, which is how much money is spent on the Church, how much is spent on dangerous historical auditism, how much is spent on the military, means even though we've warned more times, I think that the absurd fact that by joining NATO, the alliance has been said that we are going to spend a lot less money, that we are safer, so the instructions that we should stand out about 3% of GDP, now we stand out more than 2%, which was NATO's recommendation, but we've accepted it bothly as soon as it's arrived, and we are going to single out even more because this budget rebalance is being imposed on something like that, or something like that. In any case, we give more to assistants in the special-needs class, which every time we warn that it's not enough, that continuing assistants really need to be leveled with employees' rights indefinitely, they can no longer be temporary, it's not even a seasonal workforce that gets a contract only over the year, and then over the summer they leave without a contract and then come back, so in September. Also, for various social transfers, we think that we should really give more, we think that we should give more for the housing of victims of domestic violence, which is increased in the budget itself, means but it is still insufficient, as well as for science that is as always denied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111429	Thank you very much. We're going to take a short break now because the information needs it, so here we are, we can see you in 15 and 55 minutes. 55. Meeting in 15.47 hours. CONTINUED AFTER THE STAND IN 15.47 Dear colleagues and colleagues continue to work with individual debates and will first speak the respected representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111431	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. So it is always good when changes and additions to the State budget for the current year are discussed at the same session when talking and discussing the implementation of the budget for the previous year, then I think we can have an accurate insight into what the amount of revenue per item or expenditure was. It should not be forgotten that this 2022 year has seen a strong economic downturn at the level of the entire European Union caused primarily by the pandemic of the coronary virus, but we also have new challenges of geopolitical tensions, supply chains, financial market instability, we have growing inflation, and therefore in the Republic of Croatia we expect to see consumer price inflation as much as 7.8%. We could see that total revenues are planning an increase of 6.6 billion kuna, while expenditures are increasing by 10.9 billion kuna so that they will total 184.7 billion kuna. I'd like to talk a little bit more about this spending side, because when we talk about incomes, we'd all like to have as much income as we can, and that's where we're trying. However, the expenditure will certainly be discussed whether some expenditure and some expenditure items should be reduced. I was glad to hear before even my colleague Peovic said that there are no major objections to this rebalancing. Now that we're talking about the expense side, what we can see is that the most resources go to settle the obligations of health care institutions. So the Ministry of Health gets as much as 3 billion 889 million kunas more. The appropriate reception and care of Ukrainian refugees also require increases, so that only for private accommodation financing is guaranteed 285 million kuna, while 37 million kuna is provided for the health protection of foreigners. Why am I saying this? Because I think if someone calls for an increase in extremely high expenditures it would be good to say here I am against being even more isolated for health care or I don't want that much resources to be allocated to the care of Ukrainian refugees. Or, for example, In order to support job conservation, the item receives as much as 367 million kuna. Of course, we know that the funds are also provided for measures to mitigate energy prices. The total expenditure on subsidies is €9.3 billion, which is an increase of €1 billion primarily due to an increase in the allocation to support the agriculture sector, due to the resolution of the security situation in Europe due to the aggression in Ukraine. The total aid also increases by 4.8 billion primarily for recovery, as said by the health care institution, but also for increasing the expenditure on primary and secondary school employees due to changes in the wage base growth. We know that negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Union have been successfully concluded and that this basis has been increased for the calculation of salaries in state and public services by 4% and, of course, the expenditure side should therefore have been increased. Citizens' and households' fees also increase by 2.3 billion kuna because additional funding from pensions had to be provided to ease the price of gas. 65.9 million kuna is provided for co-financing of European projects. It is assumed that there are smaller municipalities and cities that can't even make the most of 15% if 85% of the EU's grants are provided on their own, so 65.9 million kuna is provided for that purpose as well. The most joyous that we have employment growth, in this original budget was projected by 1.7% and by these changes as much as 2.8%. If we look at a few figures, we see that in 2019 there were millions and 555 thousand employees, and then 20 fell by 1.3%, and then it increased again 21st, and now already in March this year means before the tourist season we have an increase of 1.3% higher and over a million and 550 thousand employees. Here's to the expense, the revenue side, I didn't make it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111432	We've got more replicas. The first is a respected representative of Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111433	Dear colleagues, there may be something about the subject, but I'd like them to pay a little attention to both the colleagues and the ministry, so maybe later they'll answer me or take my word. So the state stopped the rise in the price of electricity for the public, for the household which is fine. But it's not for the economy, and now we have one problem. This is what my colleague Bulj pointed out today, but you couldn't quite understand him for subjective reasons. In Šibenik specifically after the calculation because the current went 3 times higher, 300% is about the electricity offer will have to be priced approximately for water raised by... %. [[You don't understand.]] This is not only a case in Sibenik, but it means most of the water lines in Croatia. Can you make a model? I don't actually know what to offer to get through water in some way or to get the electricity sold to the plumbing also subsidized or to stop its rise?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111434	Dear representative Juričev-Martinchev [[Intruder: My colleagues, this has been directed to you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111435	Thank you very much, colleague Zekanovic. We know that cities and municipalities have a growing problem, given the increase in electricity prices, it is not only public lighting but also heating in institutions, especially kindergartens and the like. Even here, I referred a replica when we had recent changes and additions to the Law on Preschool Education, and it is certain that this is a subject to sit and discuss, however, and I personally talked to the president of HEP, they believe that this was also too much of a burden, that only by the rebalance of the budget, if significant funds are to be allocated and co-financed, then it is possible, and otherwise it will not be feasible.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111436	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111437	Thank you, well-respected chairman, dear colleague. Given that the united points today are ahead of us and the annual report on the implementation of the State budget for 2021, which primarily shows a strong economic recovery and strong economic activity in 2021, resulting above all in an increase in real GDP by 10.2% at the end of the year, which is the only EU country with two-digit growth other than Ireland. We also had a small increase in trade by 12%, but also very crucial and important, and an increase in exports by 28.5%, while imports amounted to 23%, thus covering imports with exports for record now, 67%. But also, we had a successful tourist season. Since you come from that part of the Republic of Croatia, So we see progress in all activities. [[Thank you. Dear...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111438	...representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111439	Thank you very much, Comrade Mazhar. Just like I said, I didn't get much on the revenue side. And I'm happy to see that 3% increase in economic growth, and then we can see that profit tax revenues are planned for these changes and additions, even a 10% increase. When we talk about projected VAT revenues, then we can say that given inflation, there will be an increase in the price, and then they can be higher incomes, but surely they will, and thanks to the increase in personal consumption, and all of these measures, from active employment measures, support for jobs, as well as tourist services and investment, all of this will contribute to the growth of income that will, we can say, only 6.6 billion because it would certainly be in our interest to be as minimal as the expenditures are increasing. But in any case, a 3% growth in the economy is a joyous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111440	Dear representative Pocrnic-Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111441	Thank you, dear colleague. The state budget has a significant impact on the standard of our citizens and on the availability of services that must be guaranteed to everyone in the same way within the same range. I come from Ličko-Senj County, the largest populated county with the lowest population that is constantly decreasing and thus we come into the situation that many of my fellow citizens are reducing the availability of certain services. I'm going to look at education, for example, where there's an example. a small number of students led to a reduction in the number of class departments prescribed by the Ministry. This also reduces the number of programmes and choices for students who are forced to go to other parts of Croatia, and there is little chance that they will return after schooling and return. We MPs must send messages to the Government and the Ministry to take care of the even regional development and specificities of individual areas so that all citizens in the Republic of Croatia have the same opportunities in the same range to use budget funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111442	Thank you. Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111443	Thank you very much, colleague Porniæ. Well, balanced regional development is also the goal of the Republic of Croatia, but also of the EU, which means that not only our funds but also our European funds are given priority to projects that have an impact on making development as balanced as possible. When we look at this budget rebalancing, we have an additional 21 million in the Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, however, the Ministry of Agriculture through which numerous projects are also carried out in terms of administratively balanced development or financing of those projects in settlements below 5 thousand inhabitants, etc., gets an additional 219 million kuna. I expect these additional funds to go in that direction and to that end.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111444	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111445	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. In your replica, you referred to a statement yesterday at a convenient meeting of Sibenik-Knin County by President Milanovic, which criticises almost no increase in EU funds. However, only in the budget item, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy shows that this rebalancing has increased funds for the implementation of EU funds projects, e.g. so popular and eagerly expected extension of the program Zaželi, 405 million, personal assistants 56 million, expansion of the service network 16 million. Also, a very demanding and significant program... Almost 10 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How, then, can you compare his claim and the data that you made in the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111446	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111447	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Murganic. I will repeat because obviously President Milanovic keeps repeating, I would say, mantra how we got and we're only 5 billion in plus. Then, I don't know, when she repeats it a couple of times, then she's so shyly saying that we're in a plus. Once again, 125, over 125% we have contracted funds, 70% paid, the difference between paid and paid funds when it comes to the EU budget is more than 49 billion kuna, and with the funds obtained from the National Plan and the Recovery, together is 55 billion points 22 kuna, which means that we are 55 billion in plus, and not as he has been saying for the past few years that we are 5 billion in all plus. That's a negligible amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111448	Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111449	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, as I have already pointed out, and in my opening speech, despite all the challenges, we note the continued growth of employees, salaries, pensions and this rebalancing provides additional funds for their further growth, so you also mentioned 4% of the growth in government and public employees' salaries. They also provided rebalancing funds for the further growth of pensions and energy supplements that started paying off last Friday, and you mentioned concrete measures directly affecting the number of jobs or job creations, which are active employment measures, so it might be good to explain a little more the most popular measure, which is a self-employment measure, but also to point out once again the importance of women's employment measures through the project Wish.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111450	Thank you. Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111451	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Buric, for the active employment policy we have reserved 107 million, we have now additionally singled out 29 more so that a total of 135 million kuna will be available on the subject of the active employment policy measures. To support the preservation of jobs we had 50 million kunas, and now an additional 367, which is 417 million kuna, now that's enough to say that it means 7 times more funds we've allocated than we originally predicted when we put the budget together before the end of 2021. And of course, with all these measures, we have come to say with pride that in the 3rd month of this year we have more employees than we had in 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111452	The following will be spoken by the esteemed representative Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111453	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's something I want to tell you about maybe the rebalancing and the implementation of last year's budget in my own way because we witnessed on Friday that the progressive opposition was ultimately requiring the disbanding of HS, today the government is doing something better, it's good and I think all these discussions are going in that direction, there are no big objections to this budget rebalance, so things are actually getting a little clearer, we see who's doing politics, who's doing serious work, that all of what we do in some way over the year we spend and bring it right this end of the year, and then there's six little years of these two governments of Andrej Plenkovic, and when I think of some time ago, we've been through and then the crisis periods, we remember in 2009, in '10, '11, and so until '15. those financial crises, the global crisis we're almost 7 years from now. We should come to a certain right direction or a proper path, so when we see what hit us all in these six years, I think it's clearly drawn out and see that this government still has a lot of professional people, people who know and can fight for the improvement of their citizens in every way and in every way and I think that if we look at those 6. Practically, except for 2019. which was the only one without some major crises or some crisis situations we haven't had a single year in which you could plan and bring a budget, and then implement it without a lot of rebalancing or a lot of repairs. Let us remember 2017. Agrokora, then 2018 shipbuilding with all its problems, fires, floods, national security, then 2019 well, pa 2020, 25.2. first case of pandemic i.e. Virus in the Republic of Croatia, then 2. And those 45 billion that some are just so easy to see here as a cost that should have been settled to preserve jobs, to preserve our employers' business, that the state can still pay higher pensions, bigger salaries, and that we can sort of end this story, so we hoped that this year we would end this story, 24.2. the new problem appeared to us, but near us, Russia's aggression to Ukraine and automatically as a chain in some way completely broke everything. When I remember our debate when we were bringing this budget, we brought it in last year 8.12 with 77 votes in favour and 49 against we really had great expectations since 2022. and no one in my head thought I had a situation that would happen only two months after that, or in my mind, unfortunately what happened happened and we see a reaction from the government that was both timely and good to me. First of all, when we talk about energy, we really did everything through this 5 billion package that is now being implemented in this rebalancing to help everyone to sort out and that part is the least painful of what might happen to us, and then again, there are new costs, we have refugees in the space of the Republic, we have all the other problems that need to be solved, and they're still being transmitted, I say we haven't finished the story with the pandemic, we still have some expenditure that will probably take us a while, but when we look at the numbers, I think we can say that they are positive, indeed, from year to year from 2016. Every year that growth was higher, last year in a year we managed to return from -8.1 from 2020 to +10.2 in the last year and simply from time to time you see a government that is really trying to solve what is worrying us all, and these are fears that have arisen, so I will say at sea with us without tourism, etc. And they still haven't stopped and we don't know what's going on for the next month and what's going to happen tomorrow and after here's the entry of Sweden and Finland into NATO or some other situation, no one can know or predict it, but we're here to do or plan what we think will happen. I think what happened to the increase in income, but also the expenditure that will be based on the implementation of the budget at the end of the year, and I expect it to be at least at the level of 2021 when we have actually achieved better results in revenue, less results in those expenditures and that it will be And this year, and I think we're all gonna get better. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111454	We have more replicas, she is the real respected representative Pocrnic-Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111455	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Boric. You said that some people understand the government's efforts and that our opposition really criticises the government, and that's their job, and it also criticises when it helps citizens and when it responds to difficult emergency situations, when it reduces VAT, when it subsidises energy prices, when it raises pensions and minimal beaches, when it helps entrepreneurs. Hypothetically, if it hadn't been for all these government measures aimed at maintaining the standards of citizens and the economy, what would the situation in the country have then? Would citizens be in a difficult position or do you think it would be different? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111456	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111457	Thank you very much. So I think if I were to mention this 45 billion if it had been rerouted to anything other than the costs caused by the pandemic, we'd probably all have a slightly higher salary, probably even bigger pensions, but we'd probably have some other situations, but we'd certainly have some space that was created in 2016-2020 and where the budgets ended at the end and in surpluses, but what happened and what happened to these things just as a global one we can't affect ourselves except that we can take care of them. And I think we're doing it well, that we've done everything we can to raise wages through tax reform, but especially in the public sector. I'm going to mention 18.3% in the past time plus 4% agreed on this year that's 22% increase just when we're talking about basics plus what happened through tax reforms, we can certainly conclude that these salaries that some are talking about this kind of underestimation have increased between 25 and 40% depending on the situation, but I think we did what the state can do.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111458	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111459	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A fellow Boris here at the beginning of your individual debate you mentioned last Friday and an attempt to resist the disbanding of HS, so I would say that the football jargon team entered a pre-lost match, scored a few auto goals, but even in the end it didn't have enough players for the game and the Croatian public saw it. However, equally important if not most importantly what experts and institutions are seeing are dealing with such things if today we are talking about public finances and the macro-political Republic of Croatia that the Republic of Croatia currently has the highest credit rating in its history with positive prospects, that the European Commission praises the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the 34 reforms it has made in the past few years, that we are therefore receiving millions and billions of euros from the EU to recognise the stability of public finances and to recognise both the stability of both the Croatian Government and the HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111460	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111461	Thank you very much. I think that the time of entry into the EU here is what I think some good course has experienced in these last few years where we see all the benefits of it, as much as we suspected of this project of what we need or are looking for, I think we see what's happening now. And when we compare the budgets, the last budgets of 2015 and today's budgets are talking about although the methodologies are slightly different almost 50 billion kunas more in revenue, of course and expenditures are growing, but some possibilities are more and I think these two governments are getting along a little bit, especially this finance minister they were also trying to replace, but I think that ultimately the figures show everything and that the citizens see what's going on. Of course there are dissatisfied, but the state does what it can even though it's expected to be more than a mother or more than a mother, but it just doesn't work sometimes. I think there's a responsibility on us, and I'm all here to make these results better than we've got right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111462	Thank you. Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111463	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. You mentioned how some MPs demean, in fact, everything the government has done this time. They mention that this VAT that's down and it's not something, so you see what inflation is, etc. and what is disastrous about everything is said, and they do not say that what happened with the VAT reduction has actually mitigated the impact of inflation, or that inflation would be much larger and two-digit as it is in the more developed EU countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111464	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111465	Thank you very much, colleague. So I think we've all voted for changes and additions to the VAT Act so that they didn't say whether prices should have been lower, everyone would have liked to have lower prices, especially I don't know some things that really needed to be reduced, they are what they are today. And it's hard with those who sell the i.e. For traders to come to convince him that he should now give up some of his intentions and that we order him to do something in this system or state where we live. I don't think it's up to us to think we should always do the maximum, but in the state it's that that's what you can do. So we went with a five-billion-dollar package to help those who are the weakest to help them out as much as possible, of course you can't pay each bill in full, but... some certain differences yes. Now, it's up to us to keep working on salaries, on pensions, that people really get what they need so they can carry the burden of what happened, and it wasn't just up to us, absolutely. At... a moment nothing about us. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111466	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111467	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'll fight my friend. And despite all of these five years back when we say catastrophic years, everything the government had to do to enable some kind of normal functioning, I can only say that the investments didn't stop and that the real government and all the resolution ministries made an effort to invest in all the municipalities and cities, the counties sort of run normally, they built kindergartens, schools, business zones opened up. So imagine if it wasn't for those crises, everything would have been. Obviously this has to be repeated because the real picture as our colleagues in the opposition say, the situation is really not quite as chaotic as they represent it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111468	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111469	Thank you very much. My fellow Members, I think that we have well absorbed this part of the special local leaders in all order, and I think that today's competitions are going neatly that EU funds that are primarily going to that part and segment of the infrastructure of transport, municipal, social, are really doing well. I think it's worth mentioning what we've last come up with. The last public call that goes with exactly a billion and 200 million kunas towards the rebuilding of the necessary facilities in kindergartens, waiting for us another 800 million kuna. I think everyone can find at least part of their needs in some way, of course they'll have to provide for themselves, but it's important that they want and the possibility that the state gives you. I think the state always creates this space and we understand everyone who criticises us that hospitals don't pay debts, here's two billion to make up for that moment. The medications are over, according to HZZO, it's going over a billion and a half extra. I think it'll do what it can, but it's got a magic wand and it solves everything so everyone's most pleased we won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111470	Thank you. The Honorable Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111471	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague. So surely the state budget can be compared in some way to our family budget, within the family we often have times to look for these or those levels, but whoever is most responsible knows what is possible at that time, which is more important, and I would say that exactly in these times when we are here, as I would never say in the last year and a half threatened by these many threats, that I don't mention them now, but we all know exactly what this is about. However, there is still one social sensitivity, while keeping in mind that the budget, with the best wishes, and I do not often doubt the good intentions and the opposition colleagues themselves, but simply blow up the budget, we will bring ourselves into a situation so that we can eventually make our credit rating less quality than it is right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111472	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111473	Thank you very much. I think that through salary policy or tax policy we have clearly shown what we want, here I will give the data meaning today average salary 2008-2012 plus 495 kuna, 2012-2015 minus 83 I am talking about net average salary, 2016-2022. plus 1.824 kuna, I think this data clearly indicates what we are looking for and what we want. I see that in Zagreb this salary is safe and much higher when we talk about the average salary, not to talk further about what seemed to be a minimum wage. Let's remember 2016. 2,496 kuna, now it's 3,750 after six years it'll probably be bigger in the next year, hopefully we'll find a way to make it happen. And what I want to say first is to thank these people who work at the Ministry of Finance, I think they're doing a good job, they show it's a number of polls, they show it's also the charts on which we climb especially the grades of those who judge us independently about... politics we ourselves or in a different way. That's the way to go. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111474	Now she will speak to a respected representative, Mirela Ahmetovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111475	Dear Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. First of all, I regret that Minister Maric is not present here, although I am even more sorry that there are no other ministers and resolution ministers who are actually doing this rebalancing. Last year when we were making a budget for 2022. I argued that the budget was not realistic, but at that time it was more than 10.8 billion kuna in revenues compared to the last rebalancing in 2021. The expenditures were set at almost the same level at which in 2021 they were shown only half a billion more. And then I claimed and claimed today that such a budget was actually the one that was set because the figures had to be adjusted to meet the Mastric criteria and Croatia's entry into the euro zone. Today we admit that we were right all of us who claimed that the budget was planned for 2022. Unreal. Here we are now raising it in revenue for an additional 6.6 billion kuna, so a total of 16.8 billion kunas more revenue than in 2021. and expenditure of 9.2 billion kuna and 9.7 billion more than in 2021. Tax revenue growth in the first plan for the year '22. compared to '21. of 5.7 billion was justified by GDP growth of 4.4%. Now GDP growth is adjusted to 3% lower, so as much as 1.4 percent lower, and tax revenues continue to rise by an additional 3.18 billion kuna, i.e. now by 8.9 billion kuna compared to '21, and there is no justification for GDP growth, as was our justification when we planned that first budget, so GDP is falling. Let's be honest, the reason for the growth in tax revenues is the inflation that we all know the state's profits. Here Minister Maric and many speakers from the ruling majority explained Russia's inflation of aggression in Ukraine, and we forgot that we were already in September 2021. Warned about a leap in inflation. So we had 2.8 inflation back in December of '21. Inflation reached 5.5% compared to the same month 2020. At the time, Minister Coric laughed at my current question about what the government would do about jumping into actual inflation rates. The Russian invasion of Ukraine began at the end of February, but inflation had already reached 5.7% in January compared to the same month before, at an average annual base of 3.1%. So, Russia's aggression on Ukraine has only pushed the inflationary pressure they warned about and who saw everyone except the government of the Republic of Macedonia, and I remind them once again it was funny, they thought it was funny. As far as expenditure is concerned, when the minister wrote a budget for 2022, the biggest savings were written in health care for about 5 to 6 billion kuna compared to '21. That's when I said he didn't believe in a budget that he had to defend. And I know that the minister may have left now because he's embarrassed because he knows and he knew and then I was and I'm right. The worst part is that Minister Beros and other prime ministers of the government of the Republic of Croatia, so these other resolution ministers actually did it to make Minister Maric uncomfortable. Since the promised reform, especially in health and health care, health debts towards wholesales and pharmacies are growing 400 to 500 million kuna per month, and if the reason for this were more accessible, more accessible, a better quality service then I would somehow understand that incurring with a few billion. But no, we saw what Berosh thinks of the availability of health services on this tragic case of Mrs. Chawide. But you know what's missing? I miss that show that Maric likes to realize and tell Beros, but this time I'm still digging holes, and you can't do any more reform. Here's the last five months, so there's no anger, even Maric admits okay now, let's not get mad because there's nothing left to represent as some kind of anger but I'm going to patch that hole up because I have to. And the energy not to forget. Gas security is planned with a symbolic 75 million kuna, of course they only opened an item because it will all go through HEP. I remind and warn the minister that he has already provided guarantees to HEP of 2.5 billion kuna for the provision of liquidity because HEP paid Russian gas to a private company in advance of the contract. Will Minister Maric defend himself for not knowing?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111476	The Republic has a respected representative named Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111477	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, so you were actually talking about a real, real picture of the health budget, so it seems to me that yesterday on the Finance Committee is up to one sentence when he did it. Tica, an external member of the Committee on Finance, asked the minister about, precisely around this part of the health costs, if the minister had actually said one moment of truth again, you would have put it in other words, it proved through this replica that he expected reform from counterpart Berosa if he had expected reform from counterpart Beros. What my colleague Beros announced was that this reform is already at the prime minister's table, standing there in the Prime Minister's drawer, and today he is not here to answer us, to tell us clearly what's going on. Are we not asking anyone... Instead of telling us what's going on and why it's 500 million dollars in debt today if there's no Covid, and during Covid, there was 200 million in debt at the monthly level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just to get some answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111478	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111479	Dear MP, and would not even believe that Minister Maric expected Minister Berosa's reform, he simply had to save somewhere when planning a 2022 budget to meet those figures that require conditions of entry into the eurozone. And the only place in health care was to show that the debts would be lower and that it would be justified by the expected reform. However, what is today is that already now, there are already 3 billion kunas missing for healthcare that are not shown in this budget, and Minister Maric knows very well that during the next one, the first one of the next budget rebalances must be installed by the additional 3 billion kunas. So, what bothers me, of course Minister Maric will simply figure out the figures as the resolution ministers tell him, and now they're hiding, so there's not one in sight because they're not doing anything. In fact, they are looking at where they will go to another position as Minister Ćoric went, or that Minister Ćoric will go, but what bothers me so let's not lie to the Croatian public. So there's still 3 billion kuna in health care, so write 3 billion kunas in health care, and write 3 billion kunas. write that deficit. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111480	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111481	Thank you very much. This rebalance goes into one category already seen. The Commission for Fiscal Policy more or less every time that the same recommendations, health reform, reform of the pension system, none of this is happening. How realistic it is to expect, in these last two years, that any of this will be, in my opinion, a very optimistic version. But what's a little bit of a concern is that the level of public debt, but in the nominal amount that is growing rapidly and which this year needs to rise by 16 billion, last year has increased by 13 billion and has been accelerating since 2019. So that's something that everyone should be wondering where that border is, how long it's gonna go like that because it's the duties that someone's gonna have to pay back, our kids, our grandkids. Do we even have the right to leave them so much debt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111482	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111483	Yes, thank you very much, so here we have heard countless times in the debates that it is good for our incomes to grow. I'm still surprised that someone is so easily relying on tourism revenues and constantly on personal consumption revenues even though we're doing well for now. But what's sad is that compared to the growth of income, it grows rapidly and costs. And it is not those expenditures that allow for a better quality, better quality and better life for our citizens but the expenditures that serve to patch up budget gaps that are due to the lack of reforms. And you've made a good conclusion, so what's actually sad is that nobody's looking back on the fact that these reforms don't exist. No one looks back to the fact that nothing has changed in health care. So, that debt to large drugstores and pharmacies, the actual debt is the same as it was a year before we talked about budget rebalancing for 2021. So nothing moves, public debt grows, how much longer will it grow It's only a matter of time until it cracks. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111484	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111485	Dear MPs, therefore, the energy intensive industry certainly needs new subsidies. So we know that gas subsidies have been given, but for electricity that has increased three times and subsidies have lagged. Do you think with new electricity subsidies, we can encourage that industry to stay alive?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111486	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111487	Thank you very much. That is, while some of the HDZ deputies here have debated in the direction that we have criticised the measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I must remind them that we have not criticised them because these measures are in large part equal to those proposed by the SDP, even the amount of measures has coincided with around 5 billion kuna. What is missing is, in fact, the incentive to help entrepreneurs, or the economy in particular, with regard to these energy problems. What is interesting to me in the budget or budget rebalancing is that I foresee a reduction of deficits in local self-government units that are as much as the economy and households under pressure from energy growth, energy cost growth, under the pressure of labour costs, so projects that are realised and I don't understand who it is and based on which I calculated that units of local self-government will reduce their deficits.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111488	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111489	Thank you very much. You spoke to counterpart Ahmetovic about the meaning of the Ministry of Finance setting up certain situations and not showing the costs and actually giving false budgets because then the budget rebalancing, etc. Here you are, as head of local self-government in Omislje in 2020, having two rebalancings in 2021, is this evidence that you are also setting certain results so that at the amount of 35 million kuna and here at 170 we compare? I don't think anybody does, so we've really been through two years that have been burdened with pandemics and suspenses like this one right now. I don't know what's waiting for us in the tourist season, do you know? I think there are good announcements. What's gonna happen, I don't know, what's gonna happen in a month. I think saying so is not right about people who really care that this system works and that it is transparent and that you see everything that needs to be seen in it regardless of what we are politically speaking here. So you wouldn't give it lightly if someone were deliberately hiding something, so they'd show at the end of the year. I think the results and the results and the performances show that the results are much better even for what we project ourselves and we vote here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111490	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111491	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Boric. I'm so glad you said this, remember you were present when I discussed the budget plan for '22. And I told Minister Maric and you that I'm sure you don't even know what you're discussing or how much the budget is, so you remember that comment I made. Remember also in a few months when we talk about the second budget rebalancing and when we will raise expenditures in health care because they are not shown today in an additional amount of 3 billion kunas, so the debts of wholesale drugs and pharmacies. As far as my budget rebalances are concerned, and I'm very glad that you mentioned it, you see, unlike the state you compare me with, thank you very much, in my local self-government unit, there's not a single one, no one swears, no debt, no unpaid bills, and my rebalancings are always higher because of higher incomes, not because of the higher incomes, and not because I have to pick up someone else's money. Especially your own holes. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111492	Thank you. Honorable representative, please not from the bench, respected representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111493	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Ahmetovic. When we're talking about how you're talking about how you're hairing books to say no, but I think that's not some unusual practice, but the point is that it would be fairer politically then say, you know what people are like and that kind of thing, we have a euro that's kind of our goal, we had a crisis, we had a pandemic, you know what health reform just won't work. It won't go now, we'll see what happens from the other two years or the last year, if we succeed, but it's much more important simply that we realize that some of the goals that we had at the beginning of the mandate when we put this budget together and we proposed simply we won't be able to realize it, whether we can get some kind of support for it or not. So, but it's not happening and it's their huge problem. So they're like folk open to criticism, but actually every criticism they refuse and that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111494	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111495	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So look here neither I nor anyone else before me has actually slowed down the simple duty of Minister Maric and the situation in which he was put in that he has to free up the data or he has to find a way to patch up other people's holes, we're talking about the holes of resolution ministers who are in charge of the resolutions for which some reforms have to be carried out in order for their resolutions to function more effectively, of course at a minimum cost. What's problematic is that none of them, as we can see, have anything to show or say. It's not just health care, it's public administration, there's no public administration reform. It is said that in the public sector, 4% is paid, and we welcome it, although it should be raised, but the productivity of the public administration or the public sector has not risen. And why didn't she get up? Because there is no public sector reform. Here's to not just staying in health care, and health care is the biggest polygon actually the ability to display savings and then later patch holes because no one's going to say Don't give health care. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111496	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111497	My colleagues Ahmetovic and through debates on LNG and in a number of other topics, you have discussed Croatia's energy policy a great deal. What I think we can agree is that we do not have energy policy and that we are in a situation where our oil goes to Hungary and then Orban returns it to us and resells it, and in Hungary, ohohoho prices are lower than the fuel prices that are a very important item in these purchases in Croatia. What do you think on the other hand about pension funds and government kickings watching what happens to Forten mainly with that part of Forten's agricultural business in Slavonia where it turns out that Croatia has no interest in it, that we have no interest in being self-sufficient in agricultural production but turns out to be allowed to take over Hungarians as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111498	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111499	The country's independence is based on three pillars, which is an energy, food and banking pillar, I would say a financial pillar. In all three areas, Croatia has shown that it is not independent. Unfortunately, the energy sector has long been handed over to the Hungarians, you have made a good point, of course our crude oil based on a secret agreement signed by Minister Ćoric, so today former thanks to Minister Ćoric is committed to the Hungarian refineries to work, and ours is being shut down and to make Hungarians cheaper in the rest and drive. As far as the food sector is concerned, you've seen Hungarians have managed to surround our food sector, occupy even agricultural space, it's a concrete area of the Republic of Croatia, and here they are slowly entering the banking sector, you will see that in a year we will also talk about the domination of Hungarian capital in banking.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111500	Thank you. The next one will speak to the respected representative Vesna Vucilovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111501	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Already eminent economic experts say that inflation has taken control and we are slowly entering that inflation spiral which is not good at all because we have a new element, which is these inflationary expectations, price hikes to make extra profits, and at that all raise prices, so let's go and then we also actually have state-owned companies that are raising prices, and then the state should help those who are socially at risk and we start slowly spinning in this vicious circle of price and social transfers that are in the conditions of inflation growth extremely dangerous. There is still room for certain new elements to be introduced on this income thing. So Croatia is from a tax on property that, which cannot be proved to be the origin of origin, is harvested in the 5th year. less than you collect in a month from the penalty for traffic violations. Now, I would very much like to say that the IRS is so thorough about combing the origin of the property and charging 60% of the tax on that property that cannot be proven to be of origin, as it combs those who are cobwebs, who have moved on with their belly after bread, etc., but unfortunately, we don't see too much of it right now because these 35 million kunas are as charged in the 5th year. is indeed a minor item. In this individual debate, it would also refer to a few specific items. In particular, in the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, we have long heard about the Renaissance of the Croatian Railways and will reportedly be transported to the 21st century by our railway station from the time of Austro-Hungarian. But if it is judged by this rebalancing, that renaissance will last about how long that real Renaissance lasted, and it lasted for the whole 15th century, and in 16 it spread to all of Europe because of these 8 years. Definitely won't be enough. And what brings me to this conclusion? So here is a concrete item relating to the reconstruction of the existing and the construction of the second colossium of the shares Hrvatski Leskovac-Karlovac is again reduced by 200 million kuna, otherwise it is funded by European funds, but something is wrong, it seems to me that the public procurement has been cancelled again. The same item in the budget relating to co-financing of the production of study and project documentation is also reduced. Construction and reconstruction of the railway Long Village-Križevci is perhaps the best example of what it looks like in Croatia because in this case we are not even able to spend the money Europe literally gives us and now the last deadline of completion of the works has been moved to the middle of 2023. which is 3.5.g. After the deadline, but that deadline is also under question and the question is whether it will be respected, and if it is not respected, then we will have to finance it again together from the state budget because Europe somehow does not like it when we break those deadlines and do not respect them. It's just that it took more than a year to get a location permit for that stock, so it turns out that the state is blocking itself and it's no wonder that we have, that we have to beg for certain deadlines to be extended to the European Commission. The shares also mean Hrvatski Leskovac-Karlovac 44 km long, the tender is announced on September 7, 2020, more than a year and a half ago, due to complaints is being re-longed, due to complaints we will obviously not spend this money, and ultimately the price of the increase, estimated value of the works of two billion kunas every day, and then we must really ask ourselves whether these figures are what they really are or we can expect some more items since we are not able and we are not able to spend this European money literally given to us within the deadlines set.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111502	Thank you. We have a replica of the respected representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111503	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues, I'm extremely glad you've opened the subject of the railroad. The budget is or rebalance of the budget is one unfortunate thing. On the one hand, you can also talk through public space about the renaissance of railways and about the need and the importance of railways, and we can also talk about how important it is, how important it is, how important some other countries are, how important it is for Croatia to engage in some other streams and then come into the budget and see the figures and then you really see that we don't count for decades or 10 years. much longer. And that's what actually on one side of the depression, that's who in that joke woman do you trust more with your eyes or my words and often when we get the law, I was one of those who's a big fan of railroads and I think that might be a big step but then when you get to the budget or the rebalancing then you see there's no hope.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111504	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111505	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrak Taritaš I am also a big fan of railways and I live in Slavonia and Baranja who is really crying out for the reconstruction of the railway track and then somehow always pay a little more attention to those items and I am always disappointed again and again. The team is more really unclear why this is happening, why it takes so long and when you read the explanation of HH Infrastructure why some money didn't spend, so they say there was a crown so they couldn't. So in that same crown, in that same epidemic, construction works and this entire sector has registered growth only HZ Infrastructure was unable to work on fresh air outside and spend the money Europe really gives us because it is part of that green plan and what is climate-friendly. But why so, there should be Minister Butkovic there to give us those answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111506	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111507	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My dear representative of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, I will focus on health care. Let me remind you first that Prime Minister Plenkovic when we discussed the 2022 budget. 1.12 said, I quote, when I asked him if, in response to his replica, he said, when it comes to reforming the health system Minister Beros has the task of ensuring the self-sufficiency of the public health budget, the means available to cover the costs of effective care for the health of citizens, which means the availability and quality and optimal application of limited resources and transparency in spending resources and the uniformity of health care standards, completed the quote. And what does that mean? So we're going to cover how much of the debt is, and yet on the other hand, we should, in fact, tell our citizens and all the employees in the health system, which is what's waiting for us, or what's the current situation. Minister Maric then said the key to success and sustainability is on the spending side. And then we had to tell her about the 2022 plan that we should have expenses this year and so it was planned that 6.5 billion kunas were smaller than those in the rebalancing in 2021. This was related to the planned downturn in business expenditure, material expenditure, budget assistance, and then we all wonder together how realistic it is that even the pandemic has not yet ended, we have no reform in sight, and the budget is actually planned, assuming that there will be no such costs in terms of the health system or support system for employees and entrepreneurs. And then what numbers we had or what we had. So, for the Ministry of Health, 6.4 billion kunas were planned in relation to rebalancing at 2022, and now with this rebalancing we have a return plus 4.3 billion kuna. So it wasn't enough. Then HZZO total income, it was reduced by 2 billion kuna this year, and now they saw that it wasn't enough, so there's plus 2.5 billion kuna, of which one billion from the contribution of 1.5 billion from the state budget, and HZZO total expenditures were cut by 2.4 million kuna, but now increased by 1 billion kuna. So it's a bad plan. For health care, therefore, 3.5 billion kuna is foreseen and 2 billion kuna for the debt of large-scale drugs and this 1.5 billion kuna for HZZO. The data, however, is what the majors have already said in recent months that it should pay 3.8 billion kuna to stabilise as much as possible. Now there's two billion kuna planned, so we're wondering how it's gonna go? I didn’t receive a long hospital, a fresher than 30.4. I didn’t even get on the board today, so from 30.4. for hospitals 4 billion kuna, and 1.5 billion dollars for pharmacies, respectively, totaled 2.1 billion kuna. And say total health debts totalled 2.9 billion kuna. And let's remember the 2021 health care year 32 billion kuna plus what 41 billion kunas were added. So then we're wondering how we're going to go on and when we're actually going to finally plan the budget? And now that we're going to look at the details of the HZZO budget, of course, the funds are now increased for primary health care, prescription medications, hospital health care, specialist consular, especially expensive medicines. It was known that for the last year, it was 2.5 billion kuna and that the constant cost of growth was planned, but 2 billion 300 were planned and, of course, now, 200 million kuna is fortunate to be that 2.5 billion kuna. And for the rest of the health care, the treatment of ino-osguarantee, the administration of compulsory health insurance. However, what I do not like personally is that as health workers, means orthopaedic devices and helped others do the same. I have to remind again that HZZO is saving by banging patients in the pocket, so then it reduces the number of strips to anyone who doesn't have an injectable insulin therapy without asking all the professional societies. Then the information of the health system remains the same and should seek to increase information. Then for health tourism the same means, and yet we would seek to strengthen health tourism. Another item of the eye has really been going on for a year and a half, I've been working really hard, and I finally caught this one not that I caught but they gave me finally valid data, these are health interns, and I'm going to ask it with an amendment to take on those certain items that I finally got today the data to succeed. provide funds. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111508	We have a replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111509	I've spoken here several times in my free speeches and in the name of the club about health problems. And it's not just debts to large-scale drugs, it's also debts to hospitals and HZZOs and debts made to other suppliers. However, no one has responded to this, nor is it responding to it now, and it is not taken into account. When we talked about last year that it was too little planned for health care in the budget everyone said it was okay, especially ruling the budget was ideal, wonderful and wonderful. However, our hospitals are still in debt, our hospitals are hard to operate, I can't provide all the services our patients need. You're coming from the hospital in Čakovec do you know how long your hospital is right now and how much it's holding it back and causing problems for your work?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111510	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111511	So most of our county general hospitals are really barely clothed because most of the budget limit goes to pay so I know the information that out of the 158 million kunas that went to last year 1050 million kunas went to pay. For the drugs I don't have, I know it was at the end of the year, since I'm a councilwoman in the county assembly I know it was 31.12. 15 million kunas total debt for drugs, and for these blood derivatives, materials, 16 million kunas. Now, as much as there's still some money coming to the rescue, I don't know, I'm saying I know that information about 31.12.200, and all together, because you don't have enough resources, you don't get what you're actually providing the patient with, so that's what the bigotry of the health system that you and I are talking about, and in fact we're all talking about. I think the debts are now about 77 million kuna, and they were 2020. 72 million So it's not a good situation. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111512	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111513	Dear colleagues. Actually, it seems to me that I always see myself in a circle with these budgets and budget rebalances, and we come up with the fact that we spend the most on health care we feel like we're getting into a black hole. The minister comes in here mad at the other minister, he also says we need to make a reform, I mean, what's the way out of this or did we fall into some amazing story? I mean, do we need a new minister, a new government, or do we have some unaccounted for solutions that we can run now to actually get out of this vicious circle? I can't believe what we're having all these discussions, like we all know what to do, and why we don't, I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111514	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111515	We all know what to do, but it's not being implemented, and the one that's currently running is the government and the current minister, and then you figure it out yourself. So we don't expect a complete reform of the health system to be made in the next two months, but some settings must already be visible and presented. We on the Health Committee are not able to get all the data, as you would now be discussing no. So who's going to argue? So what you're saying is we're always spinning up a little bit, a little bit of anticipating some resources, and then we rebalance it up, and then we cut it down for the next year, and then we rebalance it again. I mean, now I don't know how many, 29 rehabs or how many, so it takes a meaningful policy that's obviously not being implemented at the moment, and we've been giving solutions and we're always talking about certain items, so we're not being listened to from the opposition, and neither is the professional association, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111516	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Urša Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111517	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Since the defence of the amendment in this assembly has become a mere formality because one or no representative or representative of the ruling majority who already has predetermined that they will vote against all amendments to the opposition regardless of the content, I will take advantage of this possibility and will now explain one of our amendments to the budget rebalancing. So within the position of A565010 Programmes for the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Heritage, we propose to open a new item of restoration of Croatian classic feature films on the cellolide strip of 15 million kuna with the following explanation. If it continues at the rate of two films a year, we will surely experience the complete destruction of valuable Croatian film heritage. We are witnessing the public appeals of Croatian film authors for years from Krsta Papić just before his death to Rajko Grlic this fall without a clear response from the ruling in terms of concrete action of acceleration and expansion of the parts for restoration. An emergency restoration is needed so that the restored films can be digitized. It should be stressed that all the countries in the environment, the EU countries at all, have not spoken, restored and protected their film fund, only Croatia has not. It's high time for immediate access to restoration so we don't lose our valuable film heritage. Now, about this burning problem and cultural... I've spoken many times in free speech, unfortunately there's no echo. I hope and believe that all of us therefore and the ruling and opposition should care about Croatian film heritage as well as the entire heritage. I don't see any possibility of sharing on the right or on the left, the only thing that is normal, and I would say with honor that we stand up for the Croatian heritage in this particular case for Croatian film heritage. I no longer know how and how to explain that this heritage will simply disappear, irrevocably disappear. The chemical processes are inexorable and will be erased by Fabian Šovagovic, Relja Bašić, Ana Karic, Bozidarko Frajt, Ivica Vidovic, Mustafa Nadarević, Boris Dvornik will disappear forever the works of Branko Bauer, Vatroslav Mimica, Zvonimir Berkovic, Lordan Zafranovic, Nikola Tanhofer, I do not know Kresa Golik. So are we really so irresponsible all of us here or are we really so uninterested in culture that we will allow it, all of us, all of us, and the ruling and opposition headed by the Minister of Culture Nina Obulen Koržinek? We will all be responsible and guilty of this outrageous culture. Rajko Grlic also published a third letter to the culture minister reminding her that during the preface of the National Programme for Promotion of Audiovisual Creation in 2017 and 2021 she signed this, special attention in the coming period should be paid to the preservation of restoration, digitalisation, availability and promotion of Croatian audiovisual heritage as an extremely valuable cultural heritage and an unforgiving segment of Croatian cultural identity. In those 4 years. Only 8 films were digitized and restored in Croatia, 32 were restored in Skopje during the time, 28 in Serbia, and each of these films had its premiere to celebrate a new life. Since the first Grlic's letter, seven months have passed, during which time not one centimeter of films has been restored, not one. Minister Obuljen Koržinek can't hear us, so please Minister Marić, I really ask you to adopt our amendment to save Croatian classical film, time passes, chemical processes do their part and soon believe me there will be nothing to restore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111518	He has one replica of the respected Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111519	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Raukar, that it is completely unclear actually why is it despite repeated insistence and warnings on this side of the assembly why is it not put some priority on this matter? I think Minister Maric, you can ask him to accept the amendment, but ultimately Minister Oblisen Koržinek should make a decision about it, so I wouldn't put excessive hopes into it, but of course let's stay this one open for surprises, it would be really nice, because as you said what you're talking about is not a question of some political world-classer at all, let's say, it's a matter of relation to some kind of heritage that isn't, which shouldn't be the subject of a prior rejection just because it comes from another assembly, and it's not so expensive sport in view of the budget of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111520	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111521	Yeah, I don't know, I don't know what, I don't know what to explain and I don't know how to explain it, I don't know how to explain it, I don't know what to do, I don't even care, I don't know if you understand that Croatian film heritage is really going to disappear, gone, I don't know, tell me, teach me who to go to, who to ask, what to do, so I don't know if you can imagine that Tin Ujević's songs are gone, there are no more, Vidovic pictures gone, so it's our people's movie, so there's no right and left, so I don't know, I't speak out of despair, that and maybe I'm funny to you. But please all do something together, make sure that Croatian classic film doesn't disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111522	Next individual debate respected Ivana Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111523	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ministers, assistants, MPs. I haven't been in the assembly very long, but I quickly caught some persistent practices that repeat at least three times a year and concern, of course, the eternal question of how much health costs us. We're always looking at the same play, firstly to bring in an unreal budget, this is the last one that decreases last year by as many as 6.4 billion kunas without argument because the reform is not in sight, supported only by unfounded unrealistic optimism and then squeezes and drastically deepens the health budget on the first one. The same scenario awaits us for sure in the next rebalancing, the opposition all day long calls for reason, rationality, reform, alleged reform calls for and Minister Maric, reportedly for the cheerleading reform and Prime Minister Plenkovic, reportedly has a ready-made minister, Beros, but there is no reform. So, how come, where does that leak our money and why is there no reform? I suggest we have some fun with an example from which things might become a little bit clearer. In the past 14 years. HZZO paid more than a billion kuna by decision of the Ministry of Health to the private Poliklinium Medikol. The vast majority of these amounts refer to PET/CT tests, therefore incredibly important tests in the diagnostics and treatment of cancer diseases. It's important to say that it's been in those last 14 years. in which we have cashed out a billion kunas of only one PET/CT device, of course not during any HDZ government, but during the SDP government on the Rebr. The other 4 devices that exist in Croatia are Medikola. Let's not stay on abstract level, the owner of the Medikol, to remind ourselves who they are, are spouses from Čakovec, Mrs. Ivanka Trstenjak Rajković Doctor of General Practice and her husband Ivan Trstenjak, former taxi driver and caterer, completely unknown and narrow medical circles, let alone wider, together with their newly established clinic in 2007 sign a contract of hundreds of millions of kuna, a fully monopoly contract that allows them the Sanader government and then Minister Neven Ljubicic. At the same time, doctors from KBC are looking for a minister to buy PET/CT, but the minister says they can ask for anything just so they can't ask for PET/CT. 2011 for the first time begins writing about the Medikol affair and the monopoly that the government has made possible the private polyclinic which Croatian citizens so luxuriously reward. Slavica Lukic, at a press conference held by then Minister Milinovic, we are in the health care room with ministers and HZZO chief Strezrep, asks why the data on how much the state pays Medikol, does not get an answer, but 10 minutes after she is invited to the cabinet ministers to talk where Minister Milinović, HZZO head Strizrep and KBC chief, our knight Reiner, who is unfortunately not here. There they explain to her that unfortunately they can't publish the amounts the state pays off to Medikol because that's the secret information. We're talking hundreds of millions of public money from Croatian citizens. Today, we know because HZZO still had to provide data that in 2010 and 2011, when I talk about these affairs, the Medikol was paid in just 2 years 220 million kuna, 220 reasons for silence. Right? After the arrival of the SDP to the authorities and purchases of a PET/CT device, the amount to be paid to the Medici is clearly reduced from year to year, but in vain because in 2016 HDZ comes to power again and guess what happens. The amount grows again by some miracle. So, Kujundzic, another of our impressive health ministers announced in late 2019 the purchase of 4 PET/CT devices that would fully meet our needs and cost you a guess of how many 60 million kunas. 60 million kunas to meet all needs of Croatian citizens, a billion kunas we have paid for this service to Medikol. However, Kujundzic's deadline is running out, he is being squeezed by affairs, Beroš is coming, while Medikol is getting new devices that I find it difficult to assume that they would enter such an investment without being aware that they will continue to do business with the state. Since Minister Berosha received almost 160 million kunas from us, it has been announced that it continues to grow, about PET/CT gets no letters. That's how money is spent when rebalancing into HZZO. In the long run, we can only conclude that neither a representative nor a saleswoman, nor a worker, nor a housewife will be healthy. So what do we do now, Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111524	The first replica, respected Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111525	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, it is good that you reminded yourself of all these horrors and these affairs that we hear from day to day specifically and of the purchases of PET/CT devices, so the Medikol owners are from Čakovec, but I am really ashamed of this situation, but people are using clearly what they give them, so it is obviously not only on them, but actually more on ministers that make it possible. Of course, there are these affairs that we've been following about the intra-operal radiation device, and things like that should be talked about even if the minister and the ministry aren't wrong about it, so let him say who's to blame. And some people who have dirtyed up about this overpaid device, let's say, specifically for the intraoperative radiation we've been reading about, let them match. The item that may make you happy but won't save us is an increase in the amount of treatment according to the special regulations of the psychiatric hospital. It's probably like a psychiatrist was seen in the budget, but with this we're listening to everything and what we're witnessing from day to day I don't think that's gonna happen to us either. how to cheer up. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111526	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111527	Thank you. Thank you for your comment. Yeah, I mean how do I say it's a drop in the sea and still doesn't change the paradigm we're running here. I think that ultimately responsibility always goes to the minister regardless of why he is in charge and responsible, and here we see that there is one multi-year practice of the ministry where it is I will remind you when there is a recent question about this, about this cooperation, so to speak between the Medikol and the state, has received a reply from the Ministry of Health that all advanced states have so used public private partnerships to provide the best possible service to their citizens. I will repeat, the billion kuna of Medikol, 60 million kuna of four PET/CT devices that are enough with this one on Rebra which, I repeat, he did not get HDZ to meet all needs of cancer patients in Croatia, 20 times the difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111528	The next replica honors Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111529	Here, esteemed fellow I cannot believe that you insinuate that some corruption actually makes you leak money in health care. It's absolutely not to believe. Here's hoping the Resort Minister heard you, so where that money leaks, so he'll keep on yelling at others, so he can't do it anymore, right? That's enough of that. I really hope so. And just to tell you that public private partnerships are not the same as corruption in the normal world. So if we have some private institutions with which we contract some services does not mean that they are automatically corrupt it seems only in Croatia this means. But here I wanted to, I was reminded by my colleague Marić of one story, so we spend so much money on health care, and the fact is that from Dubrovnik to Zagreb, from Privlaka to Zagreb, you don't have a bed for children and adolescents with psychological difficulties, so In the hospital there is no bed for those children they have to share rooms with adults, just that... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111530	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111531	Thank you. Thank you for your comment. Of course I agree that the general public does not mean the example of the Medikol and the state. However, I would say that it is not so and generally in Croatia because we can see that there are others, other practices, but that is generally how HDZ sees publicly and privately. So, where it is publicly used for private and particular interests. That's right. As far as child psychiatry is concerned, there is a state of despair, but I would remind you that the state is not, nor is there any institution in which, therefore, they are hospitalized and treated by children in their own, that they are, that they are founders. So, not from Prevlaka to Zagreb nor from Ilok to Zagreb, so they literally have none, there is one in which is the founder of the City of Zagreb and that is it. We care so much about the mental health of children and young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111532	The next replica of the respected Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111533	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, in your debate, of course you touched health care and, of course, you touched the subject of Medikol, which somehow remained under the radar. You know, somehow underneath the radar, there's some issues left behind with all these upcoming affairs, and then somehow these people get used to it. So our people get used to things. Two things I wanted to react to, one thing is so you didn't exactly celebrate with Minister Resort, I feel like you're choosing them by the criteria that will be worse than the last one, but that's another story. And I get the feeling often when we're here discussing what the budget is, what the rebalance is when it comes to health care like in that movie infinite day, so we can't wake up from all that. It's a good thing you've opened the story of Medikol and it's good to ask yourself, so I have nothing against public private partnerships, I have nothing to do with certain services still being provided, but how are they and how exactly? For that amount and compare the amount is very interesting. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111534	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111535	Yes, I agree definitely on the fact that in the sea of affairs it's just hard to follow them all and it's hard for everyone to pay attention. I also agree that it's at least my impression, I always thought it might be someone because I'm in health care, but really when it comes to our resolution ministers, I get the feeling that we always get the shortest straw that's said. As for the Medikol or the public-private so, okay, if we're talking about outsoring, but if it's functional and it's not going to harm the citizens, then the key would be that we're still thinking about it being public money, and it's completely avoided here, and as we can see, it's not been avoided by mistake, but we're talking about something that's been going on since 2007. He's been constantly trying to hide the click of the money ever since 2007. He's been going to the company in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111536	Next line of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111537	Thank you very much. Comrade Kekin mentions a billion kunas to Medikol or I don't know who, mentioning 60 million kunas would be necessary for certain devices of this diagnostic or I don't know what you mentioned to solve the health problem in this matter. Now imagine when you from Zagreb speak so that you have much better health services than in the rural areas of our Croatia. In the Dalmatian Zagora, women waited six months for enrolment on the ultrasound of the breast, I'm talking about the ultrasound and one of them being enrolled, and if they enrolled, then they don't sign up again for six months, so some of the dead have never been examined. And speaking of which, it well knows Ante Sanader it's their county that they made out of health, it's a public private partnership of HDZ and the health ministry destroyed everything. Better unfortunately in Yugoslavia then, now the word Sanader Miro is a Yugoslav, destroyed everything, exclusively through his party comrades to the ground There's no such thing as health care. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111538	Yes, thank you for your comment. I'd like to think I'm just trying to figure out, I don't know how many doctors are here, so PTC serves that when you have a patient to see in detail and precisely where his metastases are, so it's really a diagnostic device that saves lives literally because it's a radical revolution in the treatment of malignant diseases, it's incredibly important. And of course that Croatian citizens who are unfortunately in this kind of trouble I think if HZZO pays the Medikol and they go to Mediklo, is it important, no, and where, just so we understand each other for the last five, six years, I don't know how sure it is in medical circles that these devices in Medikol are out of date and that they're no longer working properly, and we're cashing out this huge money, and we need 60 million for four new ones. We're talking again, about people who have cancer. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111539	Next individual debate, respected William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111540	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In its debate on this first budget rebalancing this year, the conditions are already too clearly galloping inflation not only in our country but also in the number of countries in Europe and in the two-digit numbers in the hope that we are not in front of a famous inflation glare that has been announced for some time by a major financial expert, but also by a gambler on the world stock exchanges by Ray Dalio, who claims that every hundred years and that this inflation can now be terrible. Now, in that case, if the European Central Bank is going to save us, we'll be able to just watch. I don't want to get into it right now, I just want to comment on some things about this first rebalancing this year, and that's the question of the Ministry of Culture and Media on two different programs. First, I will say something about the Programme to improve the availability of cultural content to people with disabilities. In fact, in the budget that was adopted at the end of last year in the Programme to improve the availability of cultural content to disabled persons, a single item appeared, which increased by 144 million 287 thousand and something like that, somewhere in terms of a million and a half, and then somewhere there was a million and 743 thousand. I now have no option here to ask the Minister of Culture how it happened, that is, under the paragraph of the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism, which was imagined here. But now I see in this rebalancing that the 144 million 287 thousand were simply taken down. I guess, to see people have much more important, I understand, I ask for 144 million understand among the billions that and it may be a small number but within culture it was a programme to improve the availability of cultural content to people with disabilities and it was last year and now it's all taken down. We don't have anyone to ask for an explanation, maybe in the final, if you can find a way to explain it to us, I really believed it would happen. I really believed that would happen. Otherwise, it's significantly smaller money and it's money that's usually derived from gambling. Second program, now this will not keep you... The second one I want to comment on is the issue of a programme to encourage quality journalism, which the truth in this rebalancing has increased. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's increased because simply the roles of what we get from gambling are greater. This programme of promoting quality journalism is now the third year in a row and I just want to say that actually this program is great and if you would make it just like this topics, these are topics from culture, health, local topics, ecumenism and religion, human rights, the position of women in society, topics of interest for minorities in society, children, young people, education etc. What encourages these specific objectives that are being encouraged is to be achieved through this project. They refer to the additional involvement of journalists, journalists, deep research on issues of public interest, strengthening critical capacity, social impact, or above all to electronic publications. I say I want to commend it, but I also need to say that now that journalists have received annual awards, Boris Dežulovic said he just came from a trial in Split, and he came to Zagreb first of all for the trial he received the next day for the award ceremony was. And that everything that's been funded here, unfortunately, you won't find on HTV where there are great journalists, but there's no editor-in-chief of the program that doesn't allow these things to happen on HTV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111541	We have one replica, the esteemed Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111542	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Matul and I got caught in the eyes of this item that you mentioned was reduced. I was just reading the documents and I noticed it. I sincerely hope we hear some sort of explanation, but in fact it should be heard by Minister Obuljen rather than by Minister Maric. They only get a statement from the ministry that they should roll, in which way they will slip into the given frameworks. But that's unusual to cut the item, to zero. So for one thing, it's very, very strange. So I appreciate you pointing that out in your debate, so I won't have to do mine now.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111543	Thank you, colleague Glavasevic. If it were simply not clear to me, it can be imagined that in Croatia as regards cultural institutions, access to cultural centres, homes for culture that this money of 144 million and 287 000 kuna would be welcome to improve the availability of cultural facilities for people with disabilities. Of course, in Zagreb you have lots of places where there are not yet the most important ramps have not let down the elevators that would help in this sense, without talking about how cultural content can be adapted to people, blind people, hearing people and many other ways in which cultural content can be adapted to them. But here it is suddenly gone or maybe the rules of that mechanism didn't satisfy it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111544	Next is the individual debate of the respected Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111545	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Each budget and each budget rebalance is at the end of the day a matter of priorities. I don't think I'm going to repeat myself here today and say things that were spoken of on some macroeconomic level or from some macroeconomic perspective by my other colleagues and colleagues from the opposition. I think we've done it enough times. It is clear that regardless of the numerous measures the government has had, inflation is a problem for which no solution has yet been found, as well as a rise in electricity prices. So I'm not going that way. In the direction I want to go, it's actually to look at how the ministers and ministers are, some of them, as long as I have time, have actually lagged out their priorities within the framework that Minister Maric, who is here in a ungrateful situation, is actually having to defend their decisions, the way that they have disputed their priorities. In the Ministry of Defence, I don't know all of Croatia shocked the drone's downfall not so long ago. I am therefore interested in the fact that, for example, the item of the common integrated anti-aircraft defence with NATO has not been changed. So it stands at 15.6 million kuna. Man would expect, in light of the government's statements made by Minister Banozic, the head of the Armed Forces' Chief Staff just to invest in anti-aircraft defence in order to increase security, that this will certainly be one of the items, which will increase the amount. But it's not. So, I remember living when I listened to the Prime Minister when that thing happened how he talked about that item going up. It's not increased, it's left at 15.6 million kuna. I think just for comparison, here I can set out another item for example, just for a second, for example, the item for spiritual care within the Armed Forces is at 10 and a half million kuna. Spiritual care, anti-aircraft defense after the drone fell on Jarun. It's a matter of priority from a colleague and a colleague. It's also convenient we had or awkward, we had the opportunity to listen to our own time about how increased hybrid threats, how many banks' institutions were under cyber attacks. Do you know how much the cybersecurity item is for the Department of Defense specifically? 8.5 million kuna. Spiritual care is 10.5, cyber security 8.5-spiritary Serbs 10.5. I suppose in the Department of Defense a priest is worth four hackers, as in hospitals a priest is worth as few doctors. Let's go a little further. I will not comment particularly on the lack of time, but I was not happy with the fact that there is no change in the amount of 52.6 million kuna for the Three Seas initiative from which we have absolutely nothing left. So, we gave the money from the investment there was nothing. Another thing to support the Croats in Serbia, for example, tomorrow Tomislav Žigmanov will come to the assembly, 2 million kuna is the amount, 2 million kuna is given. In Mostar, major concerns for culture in Croatia in BiH are the amount to support the university and the HNK Mostar has been reduced from 10 to 2 million kuna. And in the end, just one little remark like that. So, I don't want to open the subject of the Concordate with the Vatican or the Holy Table here, it's a very big topic and it's not for 22 seconds that I have left in this debate, but you should know that it's going to take us to provide for 344 million kuna, for the context, for the whole budget, and it's paid for. Okay, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111546	Replica, dear Marian Pavlichek.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111547	Dear colleague, here you and I will never agree on the financing of spiritual care. Personally, I believe that spiritual care has contributed greatly to the 1990s in raising morals in the defence of Croatia, and it is difficult to measure it with kunas, it is very difficult to measure it with kunas, but here I will agree with you that we are devoting poorly little financial resources to support the general Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. By decision of the government of half of 3rd month 9 million kuna was allocated for capital projects and seven capital projects of Radio Dux in Montenegro, two projects include the Croatian House in Subotica, the Theatre in Peču and the University of Mostar and the support of the City Croats. 9 million kuna for the nearest countries or Croats in our immediate environment is definitely too little, if it were too little in euro. Here's your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111548	Thank you. No, my colleague Pavlikek, so not to be misunderstood, I have absolutely nothing against the subject of spiritual care, I'm just putting it in relation to some other items that are the Ministry of Defence Cor business, okay, so what's amazing to me is that the item for spiritual care is bigger than the item for cyber security. I mean, with all due respect, what's okay, you need one, you need another, but let's figure out what of those two can measure in kunas. The damage since the cyber attack can certainly be measured in kunas, the damage we could have had not given to God that drone was indeed loaded with explosives could certainly be measured in kunas. And as for Croats outside Croatia, there is one item that is drastically increasing here, that's what's interesting. The item for the Programme for support projects of strategic importance for Croatia outside the Republic of Croatia has been increased from 5 to 28.5 million kuna. How's that money going to split? What exactly does that mean? That's not what it says here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111549	Next replica, you give up. Then thank you very much. Next individual debate honored Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111550	Thank you very much. Dear vice president of HS, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So, there's one thing I always appreciate and I stress, which is that Minister Maric is the Deputy Prime Minister usually with us, obviously because of some of the affairs he leaves, but the main debate is whether the debate is the budget, the budget rebalance, or whether there are some amendments and additions to the laws that are from his portfolio and he's here with us. I hope he's listened to some things, and then he'll react to it. I'm going here very specific and clearly define myself on three things. The first thing health care, so as a responsible parliamentary representative, what did I do? I first went with the conclusion that the resolution ministry should provide 20 million kuna for four interoperable radiotherapy devices for four KBCs, which do not have this in Zagreb, Osijek, Split and Rijeka. Of course my ruling turned it down, there's nothing wrong with that. Then I went through the budget with the amendment to ensure it and explained why it should be ensured because it is something that serves a bunch of women, related to breast cancer, very quickly operationally can actually speed up the whole treatment process. Of course, as the minister said, the generic response was generally rejected. And look at the wonders, all of a sudden, the Deputy Prime Minister's resolute ministry and the finance minister is providing funds for the purchase of a 5 million-dollar device, and the device that was obtained for the Mercy Sisters sees wonders from it otherwise, Minister Beros is also from that facility, 11 million kuna. Everyone knows that two devices could have been obtained for it, and now the key question of the vice president is that two were acquired, so one is somewhere in the reserve, or someone has gotten one that costs 11 million even though it is known to be 5 million. If you're in charge and you're in charge of the budget, then it's no wonder we're going to get to the next generic rebalancing. The second subject I want to make clear is the next one. We went with a requirement to reduce VAT to menstrual supplies from 25 to 5%. There was a late hours of colleagues from HDZ having fun on the subject and not to say a joke, you went through a reduction to 13% and then there was one conclusion that this assembly had made, that by April 28, a menstrual poverty analysis and everything else should be done and that you would do the story further. There's no conclusion, we ended up at 13% even though there was a proposal at the time and I went with the amendment to go to 5%, but some of the opposition has no way. It may have been written in gold letters, then something would have gone away. I'm kind of stubborn, I have different good and bad qualities, and one of my qualities is that I'm persistent. I'm going to ask for a cut from 13 to 5% again and turn me down again, but believe me, we're going to get to my 5%, and I'm going to be interested in how the government did it and how that analysis did it. And the third thing I want to say here is the next thing. Renovate. The restoration is a key word and will be the greatest shame of this government, a restoration that is not there. I very carefully and very closely follow what is happening in the area of Banovina or Banovina and follow closely what is being followed in the area of the City of Zagreb. Even in the area of Bania or Banovina you want to call her something is going on. No matter where people say there are no workers, there's not enough building material. And you and I know that when the construction sector starts that it's a trigger and everything else, it just has to run and it has to be somewhere to buy construction material. But what puts me in this one of yours, or in the rebalancing, absolutely depressed, is the next. The item that says to provide temporary accommodation, so providing temporary accommodation for earthquake affected areas has increased you from 500,000 to 60 million, long we will set these people up. A recovery of damage in the Zagreb City area to that famous fund for which I don't know why you founded You're down 130 million. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111551	Replica, the esteemed Marian Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111552	Dear fellow Minister Maric, I have already said this publicly, personally I think he may be one of the best ministers in the current government, but he is responsible because he can only be a cashier, he is also the prime minister. Do you think he should have introduced order in the sense of introducing so-called steel or iron hand and tell your closest associates, the other ministers are fed up with enough, from health care and beyond. If he can't run the finances if he's just gonna be a cashier, then it's no use, then we turn the hollow into empty, we wait for incomes and expenses. It is important how and how they use reforms. I think with his knowledge and authority, he could have acted much stronger and more agile in terms of spending primarily in certain ministries such as the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111553	Thank you very much and thank you very much for this question. You know that the Deputy Prime Minister, which is why I particularly stressed his status, is also the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. If he had one printing of money, and my colleague knows it when we were in government together, colleague Lalovac, those demands coming from the ministries wouldn't be enough. And if he had a money printing company that'd be printing money any minute, it wouldn't be enough for health care. And we know that, and we know that the problem of health care, we know that education is always a problem, so even when you listen to a few other countries and when they do some kind of budgets or their rebalancing are about the same, but we all know that without serious health reform there is not enough money for health care. So what Minister Maric did when he didn't know he was being recorded or maybe he said, he told the truth, but there's no R since the reform, there won't be any reform, and the question is just how much will be dubiosis. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111554	The next replica, the esteemed Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111555	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I believe that you have studied the budget in a studio way and what's the question today is that no one has actually asked, perhaps, but I'm sorry I haven't heard, many construction companies have asked to be recognized so-called. VTR due to the rise in raw materials prices that they cannot complete the deals they have agreed with both local administration and the central state. And I just don't know if it's recognized through the budget and if you can even see how much that item is in the budget. It means those who are even funded by EU funds. Well, I don't know, maybe here's the question. I don't know if you've looked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111556	Thank you very much for that question. We haven't opened that question at all. We haven't even opened through these rebalancing systems at all, we don't even open it in public space. Therefore, the subject of VTRs or extra-costs and, respectively, prices that are one serious, one serious topic. What I saw in the space, which is a strange, non-resolute minister so often mentioned by Mr Paladin and the Ministry of Civil Engineering, was something that was done by Minister Butkovic and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, because it obviously met on certain works that were. It's a terrible problem and it'll be a problem. So, the problem that we have at this point without an answer is the labour problem that you don't have, the problem of building material that you don't have, so I listen from people who do and who say we can't buy it anywhere because there's no one to buy it and the third problem is those prices that are going to grow in the sky. And the question of who's going to have to do it for the end to bear a certain part of responsibility. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111557	Replica, dear Michelle Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111558	Dear colleagues Mrak Taritas, you know very much about the construction sector and about the restoration of certain areas, so my question for you, reading this rebalancing, and also teaching on the budget, regardless of the fact that we are all full of the mouth of European funds and NGOs, is that even after the change of Minister and new Minister Paladin, you see the light at the end of the tunnel that is called the restoration or we will still have one winter where people in Banija will be in containers, and in Zagreb you will be careful not to hit anything on their heads? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111559	Thank you very much. So everyone passing through the City of Zagreb should make sure that something doesn't hit their heads because the dangers are still great. The figures tell you everything, you know we have, we can speak in nice words, as soon as it's in the budget 60 million to subsidize temporary accommodation it means temporary accommodation will be long. Minister Paladin is one of those, so to be clear, and what I said and when I discussed on behalf of the club, who remembers was once a minister named Darko Horvat, therefore the reconstruction went wrong or did not go wrong, thanks to him the law was set wrong, when something set wrong could not end well. And what happens, trust your eyes, don't trust me, contests, competitions, or no one appears or gives up or because of the price you have to generally do not make a competition and don't do a job.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111560	The next replica is Branka Juričev-Martinchev's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111561	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleagues of Mrak-Taritash just now, you said when there was a discussion on the VAT reduction to the menstrual needs that HDZ colleagues had a laugh. I don't think that's right, that if you're going to remember the debate on behalf of the club, and we've all said that it's something to think about, see and propose to the next package of tax reform, and it really was, we haven't cut the VAT as much as we've proposed, but VAT is almost halved and 50% smaller than it was before. Have you noticed that it may be when it comes to these menstrual needs or oil, fresh meat, fresh fish and other products that have a 25 to 5% VAT reduction that this price is reduced in stores, in stores, and that indeed our citizens are doing much better than if VAT remained and so one of our colleagues was just talking about the practice that is possible in stores.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111562	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111563	My colleagues Juričev-Martinchev, I was at this debate that started at 6 p.m., so until the late evening, they answered all the questions carefully, and first I will answer what you said at the end, which is that, when it comes to menstrual supplies really in certain trade chains and reduced and that is the fact, they are reduced to start under and although often said they will decrease VAT, and they will not be reduced, and the second topic is who, who, who, and how he joked and referred to with the hygiene stakes of lavender, rose and everything else, you can solve it within the club and you don't have to believe me. The day after that, so it was one debate that was expected to go under the radar, I was called by journalists from neighbouring countries, some other countries, and they asked what was going on in the Croatian Parliament that night that the menstrual needs were discussed in this way and gave me the opportunity to say on some television of neighbouring countries what was going on, so ask them.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111564	Time. Next is the individual debate of the respected Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111565	I thank Mr. Vice President, once again respected ministers with, no co-workers went a little bit and they rested, let the whole day be there and this one is not easy to sit all day and listen to all the debates this day and that is why we were actually saying that it would be good to see the rest and other colleagues of your ministers here, but I understand that it's not easy for your colleagues to defend today, too, because they don't know if the next rebalancing is going to be there, but can anyone guarantee that any of them will be sitting there at the next rebalancing if we're talking about the Minister of Health, Minister of Economy, the Minister of this to some other ministers, and you know why? Because they're big resistors, they're heavy resistors. Why he's been here for six to seven years. Minister of Finance, right? He was doing reforms, pushing some kind of, uh, some kind of change. Whoever comes instead of the minister and gets scared, it's not easy to eat, it's just that when the whole thing comes that I'm not going to say "haranga," the information just gets under the pressure of the public and all of these reforms just breaks down, and these are now times that will certainly not be easy for any minister in the future. Today it was mentioned here that these 45 billion were given to covid, that it was given to, to finance all the covid needs, and you see how the covid quickly disappeared, because as soon as war conflicts appeared, the covida disappeared, is no longer talking today, no matter how much costs, no matter how much they will be. Today we are also talking about inflation which is a strong pressure on the expenditure side of the budget just as the covid has strongly pressed the expenditure side of the budget and that is what is now a global issue is, so far monetary and fiscal authorities in all EU countries have opted for stimulant, all the time for economic stimulant and monetary authorities and fiscal authorities and therefore were allowed and deficits in all states and monetary authorities through the purchase... or the purchase of bonds to settle, or to offer, the bonds, and it was an incentive that because it was a crisis that was actually in 2014-'15. There was a public debt crisis, because what I was saying earlier today was the public debt crisis, the crisis was in all the countries of southern Europe, just talking about public debt, and then because there was a very high pressure on interest at the time, but now the European Commission has actually turned around, but what was worrying and all the time defending economic growth was now so much of this stimulant was given, and there was a supply disturbance, it happened that inflation was two-digit. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now the question is, what are the measures going on? All the time we're talking about fiscal measures again, we're talking about fiscal measures all the time, but let's not forget that these fiscal measures encourage inflation, encourage inflation and create spirals. So leaving inflation is not as simple as thought and even in theory, and even more difficult in practice because each additionally encourages this consumption, encourages price hikes, etc. It's very good here and this example of VAT, we've always heard it from entrepreneurs just cut the VAT all will be great, everything will be great just let's give 5% of the VAT. It happened that I don't know Ministers you list, I don't think I know how many products now, but it must be over 50 or 100 products per 5%, 100 products we have at 5%. Do Croatian citizens feel that part in their wallet that we pay lower VAT rates? But it was just all the time the speech was just you cut it down and you'll see how the market works, how the market works. What did the market do now? On the contrary, completely the opposite of being run right now, I'm saying this again, and I'm saying what I'm saying with inflation. So you always expect some magic wand from a fiscal government that has always taken a step, which is very quickly impossible to expect, is impossible to expect all realistic expectations. And that's why we mentioned here, the expenditure side of the budget not only in health care, you talked about the arrangement of the pay system, today we're talking about the system not only of the health system, but also of the public business system we're talking about HZ on the Finance Committee, etc., we don't see any progress here that we can say that if we come to times of crisis that we have additional fuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111566	Replica Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111567	Dear fellow Lalovac. You've had a lot of discussion these days about inflation, the first question is, do you think when we take into account price and fuel developments and energy and consumer baskets and everything that's been poured over, whether the government has done enough or simply surrendered to large capital that we can now clearly determine that in many products, the price is artificially pumping. And the second question about health care since you yourself were Minister of Finance is definitely one acidic apple, but is it normal that if we admit that we had fewer other medical interventions in covid that we have a huge eruption of all other costs unrelated to covid, new employment and not medical staff, and that there is simply no will from the minister or government itself, political will that finally someone initiates a clear and effective reform of Croatian health that will not ultimately have to pay the citizens of this country?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111568	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111569	Thank you. Well, there have been several reports here that there are two currents, one is that it speaks of health as on the spending side, and I believe that from the Ministry of Health it comes that this reform must be on the revenue side of the budget. Well, now that we're talking about the revenue side of the budget is okay, they said income, if we're going to introduce real estate tax, so if we're going to introduce tax, the contribution can't go any higher, the contribution is at 16.5%, the entrepreneurs can't take it anymore, so if it opens up here in the assembly that we can go more income on this part, but if we know that health costs have come to 41 billion, the pension costs are 45 billion. I think that never in the history of the Republic of Croatia has such a relationship of health and retirement been, ever.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111570	The next replica honours Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111571	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm a colleague of Lalovec's. I'm glad you mentioned the VAT problem, you know that the government didn't do it itself that it reduced VAT for certain products to make it a big halabuka, a big problem, etc. It is then envisaged that, based on the downturn, the rate is lost in the budget of over 2 billion and 100 million if I remember well. But here it has been shown that in the meantime prices have increased, that the base is higher and that revenue has been made in these three months billion and 800 of VAT. So here's proof that what you said really didn't work in that part of the market, or it only worked partially, and that's what's not good because it pumps further inflation.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111572	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111573	I agree that because I say that when we hear all the time from entrepreneurs what the state can do to facilitate business in the first place is actually VAT, in the first place is actually VAT and it is always said that it is one of the key reasons not the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Now that he's at minimum levels, can't he be below 5%, I'm asking if we're more specific now with these prices? We are in Europe, but unfortunately we are not for pockets for Croatian citizens and this has still been shown, so whenever that policy went, just reduce in this part of VAT everything will be resolved in society, it has now been shown that this market attitude towards the state has not responded. And I always like to say that, and when they came looking for support at the ministry in the ranks they sat down to ask for support for covid, for this, for that. When VAT was to be reduced to reflect on prices [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111574	The next replica, respected named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111575	Dear fellow Lalovac. If anyone can put it in Minister Marić's skin, then you can do it, if anyone can read this budget or budget rebalance then you can do it. My question to you, do you see in this budget rebalancing the policy of this government, which will result in a improvement for the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111576	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111577	I didn't hear. A better one for? So look at the part where we're talking about the pension system and we said, I think we agreed, I think that's where we all supported it. [[Intruder: Better for the citizens.]] Because really pensioners in this part of inflation are really the most affected and what we've caused to be reconsidered once again in nine months if inflation is two-digit, especially food costs. The minister said there'd be a bigger indexation. But to think again about the pensioners and if it is before the end of the year, that payment will be made once again. The minister I did not hear here a reluctance, but said he would consider how it would be a full charge and that would depend anyway on the tourist season. The tourist season will actually always give us some kind of greatest, kind of hope that a certain part of the year can calm down. However, time must be challenging so that I would not be your skin ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111578	The next individual debate of the respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111579	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So I haven't asked a colleague before me to try to define what policy this budget is that will contribute to the improvement of Croatian citizens. And as you saw a colleague before me, like his successor actually said something might happen if there's a chance. What do I mean by that? In this budget, budget rebalancing has nothing to show the policy of this government in which it will facilitate the moment of the situation. And why is only the Minister of Finance sitting here today is not clear to me. If he sits as Minister of Finance, then he needs to be congratulated on leading the good accounting of this country. But never accounting is wrong for bad management decisions, and here we face management decisions. On the one hand, we will say that they are bad or that they should have been better; you will cry out that they are excellent; so let the people judge whether the decisions of those who lead us today are good or bad, and how the people judge it shows you how many people are moving out of this land. I've said it several times, and actually when we talk about this rebalancing, then we're really talking about a new budget. And the budget is the government's political statement, where the government's policy is defined which will work in the coming period. I'm here today saying I only see the truth for the will and vice president of the government, but I don't see any other minister whose budgets have been touched. We here today, I was against it on the board then we have a united debate. Why was I against it? Because today we're actually talking about three things here, talking about budgeting for the past year where we should evaluate how well the government has managed in the past year and what it has done with what it has promised, and I'm going to say it has done very little or almost nothing. We should discuss the Law on Budgetary Implementation, the minister only touched it with what little in the sign, which is a law that was usually passed unanimously in the House as it was not very important. This law has changed a few things. This law allows the Government and ministers to be much larger redistributions and much greater circulations within the budget, so we may not even see any rebalancing this year, because through redistributions and laws that you will pass, and that we will not even discuss it in laws at all. And then what we're talking about is the budget rebalancing. What does this budget rebalance indicate? I said it in the replica today, that this government has admitted to being incapable of carrying out what she planned four months ago, four months ago she said she was going to reorganize health care, that she was going to make health savings. After four months she said we're giving up, literally, she said we're giving up, we're going back to the old ones, they're going to spend it. My colleague Kekin showed you very clearly here how it's possible to save, so 940 million on one thing only, and that kind of thing at the Department of Health you have as much as you want. Health care, efficiency, I think is one of the most inefficient parts of this country's system. But not because sisters don't work, but because those who manage it don't manage it properly. Because those who run the systems are responsible for your efficiency. I'm here at the beginning when it was, or when I talked about the budget then I touched three things, so I also mentioned them on the board. I'm going to ask again who runs HEP, how someone calculates electricity prices, and how the de facto for amortised power plants came today five times the electricity price for entrepreneurs, then we can also talk about the electricity price of what my colleague Bulj was saying for units. local self-government. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111580	We have a replica of the respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111581	You said some aspects of the rebalancing and what you'd expect. Here's to me and rhetorical and a little provoking the answer. So we have a situation we couldn't predict, which is war in Ukraine. We have a supply chain situation that we couldn't predict, but we also have a whole series of elements that we could have predicted, although you have also warned about when budgeting including health care, including the rise in energy prices unrelated to war, etc. We don't see anything in this budget for amortizing them. All we see is the spilling from the hollow into the empty or patching holes of a system that obviously doesn't work well and without reform won't work. My question to you would actually be, since this is every government's identity card, and that's the budget that you're assessing, in fact, the government's work or what this budget would be. Developmental or not? [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111582	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111583	It would be very difficult for me, after what I said, to give a positive assessment to the government, but I'm going to make a connection and remind the minister of something else. The idea when she went, the rebalancing, not the rebalancing, but the amending VAT law, to take down VAT on solar panels for houses. That's when the government refused. Why did the government say no? So that HEP could generate revenue. I will remind the minister that several times from this pay phone was asked to see why HEP practically hitchhiks energy projects in the Republic of Croatia, and it really stops them because it imports cheap electricity and then sells it. And no, the purpose of managing the system would be whether it could be expected to increase energy, is, but the question is how are we going to prevent or install it, counterpart Bulj was talking about the price of water that would increase them due to the price of electricity.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111584	The next replica of the respected Renata Sablar Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111585	Thank you, Vice President. I see that you have referred to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the State Budget in the Republic of Croatia and have stressed that this law has passed undetectedly. Where you expect that we may have the greatest changes within or some minor rebalancing as you call them means within the budget that we will not see and we will not notice and what you expect the biggest interference or the biggest cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111586	I thank you, so for the first time, this government has practically made it possible to sign the future, I call it a covert, covert responsibility, so today you sign something projected in the budget for 2023, 2024 or another year, and you don't have that in the budget today. And let us be aware of one thing each budget must pass this Croatian Parliament. This means that someone today knows who will be making the budgets for another 2 years and that they will have a majority for items as planned. I have to admit it will be interesting in the City of Zagreb, and the minister looked back at me in the replica to see what the state budget would look like in 3 years when someone else comes in as you can see in the City of Zagreb today what comes out of the closet.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111587	Next replica, respected Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111588	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, at the beginning of your presentation, you asked a question that is legitimate, which is a government policy that will lead to a better life for our fellow citizens. One of them you will remember was highly represented in public space by the ruling 2020, '21st, and these are the funds that we have at our disposal by European funds, meaning some 24 billion kuna. We can see that it was also a great opportunity, and that nothing is said about it today. And why isn't it talking? Because we don't have operational programmes that are in place and we've been waiting for it by the European Commission for a year and a half, there hasn't been nearly a single contest, and we can see that in the Ministry of Economy where we had planned 100 million kuna, and that's reduced to, 77 and 23 million, respectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111589	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111590	I'm not gonna be bad, so I'm gonna say I said again long ago this is a pure PR government that uses PR instruments at some point to represent something. It currently presents that she gave citizens 42 from Covid, then when you look at the report, it clearly says that Covida's cost was 23 billion. Of these 23 billion citizens were really given 7.3 2020 and 4.6 2021, and all the other money was practically spilling from hollow to empty, and for this part of 7.3 and 4.6 billion here I would like Mr. Minister to say in the final word how much he got from Europe. And I told you, this was just their PR, nothing more than the mass of these other things, I've got more in writing, but I haven't arrived.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111591	Next is the individual debate of the respected Renate Sablar Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111592	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, you are very patient and brave to be with us and in these afternoons. So, for a long time, I've talked about how we needed health reform, and how without it it was supposed to be not yesterday but before a larger series, a greater number of years, but they never happened. Reform is a big problem because the moment you reform something, you have practically double investment. First into that system that already exists and that has to work, then into something new or something that you're creating. I can agree with you that the change in ownership structure will not change the situation or contribute to reform. The reforms might contribute to the categorization of hospitals that will work and I believe they will, that they will contribute to one part, but we all remember very well the system where we had large medical centres that united everything and could cover all needs in health care. We've deployed a deliberate systematic health system to certain units that don't act coordinated anymore, and that's something that has to change as many different administrations as we have now, I'm going to talk, here's a Zadar example, sometimes we've only had a center or pooled so it was everything, and now we have a hospital in general, two special hospitals, well they've been separated in the system before, but we've got an Emergency Medical Services, a Public Health Department. Is there a need for all of this to be so fragmented or has it worked much better when it was unique and comprehensive? It is, it is so tied up in this reform that we really need and the amount of money spent in health care is huge and you yourself have stated that at the monthly level now the debts are growing between 400 to 500 million kuna, which is a terrible data, but at the same time you do not respect the law or lex specialis which clearly says that the funds collected by excise duties would have to be directed towards the health system. When you introduced these funds, your mouth was full of how much health care needed that money, the last example was when excise duties were introduced to sweetened drinks. Yeah, I agree. So all that money should be directed where it is needed and with that intention it is taken to the citizens. Unfortunately, this is not happening at the moment, but if it were to happen in one way, our institutions would be more relieved because they could plan that income, and then absolutely certainly, these debts would not grow to that extent because they would know what they were expecting in some period. And one more thing, to answer my parliamentary question, there's no data, and then I, Minister, can think whatever I want if you didn't write to me that it was, I don't know, 4 billion kunas, a billion and a half, 2, 3, I'm pounding because I don't know how much it is and how much it's, how much of a country has come in that way. Of course this, you'll have to change the whole paradigm health care, the costs will have to be reduced, but I think it's a big problem that pharmaceutical houses count exactly with that being delayed payment and that this one, they certainly calculate it into price, you're an economist, you'll know it much better than me, and then how much is that price and will the combined procurement do it sufficiently? So we need reforms, we need them yesterday, hurry up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111593	We have several replicas, the first to honor Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111594	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. You've listed a lot of important things that we've already talked about, which in this assembly, and what on the Committee on Health and Social Policy whose president you are, and it's good that we are actually common forces, primarily we are in opposition opening these topics and in some way driving the governing administration to talk more about existing health problems. Of course not, we'll never ask for something that's good, there are some good moves, but in principle our health system is crying out for change. The minister announced, when I asked him about the topic, that by 30.6 he would go to the public consultation of the Health Protection Act. Do you have any idea if that's going to happen at all? The law is just one link in this whole series that needs to be realized so that we can even talk about some kind of reform and consolidation of the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111595	I agree, fellow Members, with you, that the Health Protection Act is very important, but as you know yourself because you are a member of the Health Committee, Secretary of State Dulibic explained to me that I have nothing to ask about such a thing because if we move to the ruling majority then I will have the right to know.../incomprehensible/... have all the information, and I may even be able to participate in decisions. No, we don't know anything, we don't communicate with the Health Committee, so we don't get much, lots, lots of complaints, and that's too bad because we don't want to disturb the ruling, however, we want to make serious good changes for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111596	Next replica, respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111597	Thank you very much. My colleagues Sablar-Dračev. I think now on the replica board you actually touched what I wanted to ask you. You said and that's, I mean anyone who's well-intentioned and who's talking about this subject, I think it can be agreed that our health system is actually in need of a root reform. And it's sad that not because Covid himself is part of the cause, but our patients are waiting longer and longer for certain tests, certain checks, etc., etc. And it's clear to me that the ruling people don't want these reforms because if you're a member of the ruling, then you can come up with a review, then you can get to a specialist, but if you're an ordinary citizen, if you're someone who pays that service and it's expensive to pay if we talk about the workers and the separations they give, then you don't have the right to access to that healthcare system the way we should. We put a lot of money into it, and we get very little for our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111598	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111599	So I can agree with you that these citizens are really investing in the health system a lot, and the health system somehow works like this bottomless pit and no matter how much we put it in, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we don't, we have nothing to talk about, because these tails that are dragging around with pharmaceutical houses are no good for, no society, no system. Yeah, so this guy's trying to solve these waiting lists, solve the problem, and there's a hell of a lot of communication problems, so he's complaining to the patients not to pick up the results, and that's just because if you're sent by a hospital specialist he's got your report and why would I go to the counter when I get that find when I get to the next review.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111600	Next replica, respected Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111601	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you have spoken about the subject of health and I agree with you when you say that it is certainly not a problem that can be solved overnight certainly requires a lot of effort and knowledge. However, I am interested in what you think about some announcements of reform, which is that it will go into the centralisation of the health system, would such a reform, such a new system, primarily contribute to improving the quality of health services for our citizens and would such a system lead to the reduction of our health debt?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111602	I appreciate the question. I personally agree here with Minister Marić, I think that this centralization of the health system will not be much help or that you will convert general hospitals and those who do business positively which are not many and those who are doing so negatively are far more than this or put them under a state's cap I think that local self-government should have a growing power that the less state should be central because that best local self-government should best recognise the needs of its citizens and direct material resources towards what they need, and they know which segment of health care they want to develop, of course we can't all develop everything, every few things.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111603	The next debate was respected by Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111604	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. I will also refer to the fact that public debt, as has been known since 2019 when 71.1% of GDP shares in 2020, has increased to 87.3 due to the pandemic. However, in 2021, as I said, since economic growth was over 10% and all other positive effects, so in 2021 it was already down to 79.8%, which means 7.5 percentage points lower than 2020, and in 2022 it is expected to be 76.2% or 3.6 percentage points lower than the previous year. So all of this indicates that, despite all the problems facing both the minister and the state budget, it really is highly rational and it takes care of exactly the criteria that it is, they are set out from the mastery and that is what we really have to boast because few of which the state has achieved in this way, to meet it in this way and so strongly. I will also refer to the amendments that have been adopted as part of our session of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The two amendments are the amendments where the draft changes and the addition of the state budget for the '22s are made. and projection 2023 and '24. in point (a) of the general section of Article 5(1), point (b) is replaced by the following: 1st in the table that income and expenditure bill where the plan for '22. the amount of the non-financial assets is thus replaced by 160,404,607,707, and the costs for the purchase of non-financial assets where they are corrected to the amount of 12,908,411,930 and the amount of the operating expenditure is changed in such a way that the amount of the non-financial assets is replaced by 10,344,883,515 and for the purchase of non-financial assets by 1,067,144,542 is replaced by 554,993,497. The proposed amendment technically corrects the amount of the 2022 plan and reduces and increases the cost of business and expenditure for the purchase of non-financial assets. The error showed the original plan in 2022, which the HS adopted at its session on 8 December 2021 instead of the current 2022 plan covering the redistribution of funds implemented during 2022. It's all consistent. 60. The budget law, and consequently, needs to be corrected and reduced, i.e. an increase in these expenditures. Similarly, the amendment does not change the total amount of expenditure, so it is all within the defined values but in the transfer table itself there was an error. In addition, in Amendment 2 where the general section 2 of Table 2 of the financing account is replaced by the amount of net funding in column 2022 in a way that amounts of 17 billion 070 805 854 is replaced by 9 billion 336 289 723 and is also replaced by 2 billion 643 962 417 by 4 333 38 813 683 and is amended in column a new plan in such a way that the amount of 19 billion 714 768 271 is replaced by 13 billion 675 103 406. Here's the thing, technically nothing changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111605	Replica, the esteemed Maria Steel.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111606	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, here we are witnessing in fact that the government has taken very responsible measures to help citizens first and foremost, during this crisis period and after the earthquake and after Covid. Today, during the debate, we had the opposition to hear the question of what this rebalancing brings for the citizens. Given the situation in which we are already in place, which we don't even know until the end what final form we will have in Europe, and the world, it seems to me that this rebalancing is still rational and responsible, and only in investing and in solving debts in health care, I think it says how seriously this government thinks that in those frameworks, as much as possible, it really helps in all directions, that it also takes care of the most vulnerable groups in society as well. So tell me what your thinking is and your attitude about it. Is this rebalancing responsible and rational?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111607	Answer. The answer, and we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111608	Thank you very much. Article 238 was injured, I think colleague Jelkovac insults all of us who are here all day and then the Croatian public. So we're wondering what this budget is all about all the time, so we're wondering what it brings to Croatian citizens, so we're talking about it and I don't know if you're listening to the lines, here if you haven't been before, we're wondering about it. We didn't get any answers from either the minister or the secretary of state, but neither did your colleague. So give it up, don't insult Croatian citizens if you already think of us who are here all day.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111609	You used this for a replica, you get a warning. The answer to the line, Grozdan. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111610	Thank you very much. Thank you, fellow Members, for this, it is really not clear to me that the opposition does not recognize any of what has been done and with this rebalancing, and even the previous one that has happened because it is more than obvious that both the economy and the business of both the population and the pensioners have been taken into account in the previous period. That it was quite well kept in account in conditions that were pandemics that reacted quickly and efficiently, so when you look at over 170,000 entrepreneurs had the need for funds to help during the pandemic, then it's already very much said.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111611	The next replica was respected, a new violation of the Rules of Procedure, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111612	Thank you very much. Article 238, so colleagues please don't insult the opposition I'll tell you again. So, we're proposing some things, we suggested seven months ago when we were bringing this budget, you didn't adopt anything. We talked about health problems, we said this was going to be a problem. We've been warning about that, and now you're rebalancing it, and now here we are unconstructive. Well, if we're not constructive then please, I mean really here, don't lie to the Croatian public, that's all I'm asking you to do. [[- Not you either.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111613	Okay, you're getting a second warning. Replica Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111614	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Peric, challenging times. I would say that this government as little as in history has gone through so many challenges that have really brought a lot of things that have not been calculated and could not be calculated, from Covid, so here we are now in a time that is very challenging geostrategically considered because of Russia's aggression in Ukraine. Of course, agriculture is a strategic branch of the economy and in this rebalancing budget it is recognised. The 200 million kuna has been rebalanced by the government for the needs of farmers to assist in the spring harvest and, of course, for the harvest to come. So I am for criticism, but for overly critical of what can improve the domestic gross social product, and in the end here you see this vision of thinking about what might possibly be waiting for us in some time that we can't, we can't predict.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111615	Yeah, and I'm a critic because sometimes criticism can encourage it. However, we are very well aware of what needs to be done in health care, that it is necessary and recorded and implemented etc., but we have been in the pandemic for 2 years so when no major changes have been made, since the whole world has been in trouble, and so have we. And when we look at how much it's invested and how much it's invested for pensions, for additions, you've mentioned this extra for employees, for agriculture, so 200 million is not enough, the farmers will say it's not, but this government has found a way to ensure and mitigate at least part of what is due to energy prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111616	Next is the individual debate of the respected Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111617	Honorable Vice President, Honored Proposers, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to mention two topics here regarding budget rebalancing. The first thing is, I've already said something about her in the replica, I'm going to try a little bit here, a little more detail to the public, and you with that problem. Therefore, public water supply providers are today forced to increase water prices due to an extremely large increase in electricity prices. We heard today from fellow Bulls who talked about it and that's an objective problem. Well, here's what I mentioned, for example. The waterway, the Sibenik water line, which today covers the entire Sibenik-Knin County most of it, even parts of Split County and that it will be likely to keep the same situation without pay increases, required between 25 and 30% increase the water price due to an increase in electricity prices. What you might see, colleagues don't know, and those who are watching this, most water supply stations use electric pumps to pump water to start the system, and if electricity prices rise, and now they offer 300 percent higher than they were, so 300 percent, then we have one big problem. It's not the only cost of electricity, but it's a significant item. Now, I've introduced this kind of electrical energy supplement for the pensioners, and here I am really, I've been thinking and talking a little bit to people who are in the vault, which model could be offered. This is going to be one big hit on citizens' standards, and I think that there would have to be a model there that even through, I don't know, that maybe even for citizens, I don't know, maybe for entrepreneurs, although for entrepreneurs, too, the big problem is that price is limited or in some way subsidized. If someone had an account, I don't know, 200 kuna, the minimum will now mean 260, and somewhere more. I'm talking about your subject. It's water. It's water. The second thing that I would like to call here is for respected proposings to keep a little account, and these are always the famous prices of fuel and excise duties. When the fuel price is 13 kuna, then we have a lot of VAT and we see that VAT is actually now due to the increase, because of inflation, that we have, that a good VAT is being charged, that is, to fill the budget. I think that this country is precisely because here, VAT, means large bio fuel prices could still affect the cost of excise duties and reduce the price of fuel through the reduction of VAT on energy because it's not now the state's interest to fill the budget through the price of fuel on the burden of citizens and of course entrepreneurs, but to find some balance, to cut the VAT because it's obviously enough because of the high price, I guess you've figured out what I'm talking about. Well, maybe that's it. I'm sorry the minister got out this minute, but here, these are the two topics. So I will repeat, given that I have another minute and a half, the price of water depends largely on the price of electricity, if the price of electricity for public water supply providers went 300% higher, the price of water must also go. That's, I said an example in the Sibenik plumbing, if it's 30%, 30%, which is a major blow, there'll be more somewhere. The Sibenik water line is fortunate that when the high water supply in the rivers has its power generation, it has its generators and produces electricity that drives the pumps. Some plumbing, I notice, with colleagues of Bulja they don't have it and then they'll have maybe.../incomprehensible/... and a bigger increase because they're more dependent on electricity, here's the real problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111618	Next is the individual debate of the respected Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111619	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the Ministry. [[Intruding Zekanovic: Calls war in Ukraine, colleague.]] My colleagues and fellow MPs. So not long ago we had a debate about disbanding the Parliament, about the work of the government and what I said then, I'm going to repeat today. Personally, I think that Minister Maric is a good minister, perhaps even the best in the government, only to point out that his political discourse, which then, of course, dictates a lot of other policies that are implemented through the Ministry of Finance, is not something that we would be prepared to support from this side of the assembly and that we would be willing to advocate because it comes from us absolutely unacceptable economic schools, especially from an unacceptable economic school related to the moment in which today our citizens, our country, and even much wider, the whole world, lives. I am sorry, too, that there are no other ministers because some of the questions that have been raised today in the assembly are related to all other ministers, including the Prime Minister himself. One of the main topics is health care, where besides throwing a lot of numbers, explaining that there is no good, but we all fight together, we haven't heard a single sentence about how we're going to deal with this problem and how we're going to solve it so that we don't end up questioning the functioning of the system because we know ourselves that it usually breaks down on those who are the most threatened and who can least afford to pay for their treatment in private clinics. But what I would like specifically to apostrophe in my debate is our tax policies. So this crisis has shown how fragile we have an economic structure, how much we haven't done on both energy and agricultural self-sufficiency, but how much we haven't done in all these years to have a fair tax system that we won't be able to say to protect private capital and to allow those who are rich, to have even more. Unfortunately, today, that's the way it is. We have a tax policy regarding income tax, where we have made it possible, in recent changes, that our parliamentary pay representatives go up 1,000 kuna, and the cooks and cleaning ladies in the Parliament went 50, 60 and we said it was just so good. Of course it's not good and of course it would be rational to pay more for those who have started over. It is also interesting that all finance ministers so far, from all governments, mostly and exclusively reforming tax policies played with income tax, have only always forgotten at the end of the day to tell citizens that this is not the state's income and that the state does not deny something that is the income of municipalities, cities and counties. That's where we come to another field to get into the National Recovery and Resistance plan with a lot of projects. Otherwise, the community has already responded to certain competitions. Most of the municipalities in the community have HDZ, signed a chief who is HDZ and is asking questions with such policies towards a place that municipalities and cities will especially poorer in the first place be able to think about the National Recovery and Resistance Plan and the IT Mechanism. Is it possible that the time has come to finally say that a profit tax could stay where it is created, which would also create competence among the cities to attract investors, but perhaps it is time to start discussing property tax and luxury tax, because today we all know that at this time inflation, those who have money are furiously loading it into real estate. We have a huge growth in the real estate market and we're coming back to the phase that the rich are buying, and those who might want to build their first home today can't get involved in that game. It's an entire set of tax policy debates I believe will be willful. Because if we had five packages, we could have a sixth, but only with the intention of restoring justice and simply this crisis doesn't do everything they've done and the other crises, that they've become richer and poorer. And just for the end of the second election unit, I think the finance minister knows how much the second constituency is in the budget. Finally, he knows how much Koprivnica brings Podravka with its profits and other results in the budget itself. I believe that the problems that have arisen on the second track which is a very important project mainly on the move from Long Sela – Križevci, and there are objections with performers and on some other projects, but also on the issue raised by the acquisition of material about the continuation of the fast road towards Koprivnica and Bjelovar should not turn out to be used again by someone, that for the jubilee hundredth time Koprivnica, Bjelovar, Vrbovac, Long Selo, another electoral unit gets out of the state budget absolutely nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111620	Next is an individual discussion of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111621	What to say here is this rebalancing mostly refers to health care. However, health services in the Republic of Croatia are not the same in the whole area as the Constitution would tell us, but since no one respects the Constitution, neither is the Constitutional Court so we expect neither from the Ministry of Health nor from the Ministry of Finance. I'd just say as far as health services are concerned, they're getting worse and worse. Unfortunately, I wish it were different, it's a single lobby, I can tell everyone about the lobby, partly run the Knight's Alkaric Society and a health care kit in Sinj. You go to see a gynecologist who works in a health care facility, he gives you a manual of one of the key people, I guess, for example, he gives you an instruction to go to a private person. In the town of Sinj is also the one in the Knights' Alkar society and ultimately the same gynecologist who referred you from the House of Health examines you in private. That's what I'm saying to women about how the system works, and that's the facts. And that's basically an opposition to me in the city of Sinj, basically the Knight's Alkarian Society. Management, not people. They would still want not only to manage health care. Here's my colleague Brcic very well knows that they run the whole system and that's the problem. These are the problems, it is HDZ infrastructure, the HDZ infrastructure of the Knights' Alkar society, and so in all cities probably and mainly the county that allows them to take over the entire system and what is said publicly and privately. They work in the public sector, and they get double wages in the private sector, but they're well-connected things. However, the damages we have now will, of course, be spoken of in the coming period, because this is the time ahead that we have to tell the truth and we are the truth, and my colleague Brcic knows that I will tell the truth and only the truth and the evidence. And that's how it is for you, isn't it? And as for this problem that we have a huge problem, that's the problem, I'm saying, I've asked Plenkovic a question, the prime minister here on the topical clock, that there's a huge problem waiting for us. It is a collection of electricity for water lines mainly in mountain-mounted areas. He didn't take it seriously. Then I will return to the question of what hurts him, the issue of Croats in BiH, and it did not realize that simply when the current collects 500% for water and sewage at that time comes a chain reaction where it must collect water and end-user, economics and, of course, households. He'd been talking about it for a long time, and I really thought he'd take it seriously. Because you've made the PR the most successful in solving the energy problem after this covid terror, this covid dictatorship with these covid meaningless certificates. You've made a huge terror, and now, of course, we have to collect. That's all the results. However, the solution exists, I will present it soon. I believe all the mayors from other areas are listening to me. That solution is very simple. I'm not taking it out now, but here's the day I hope you'll give the solution. So I'm giving you the ruling time to figure it out, give you a solution. If you do not give the solution I as mayor of the town of Sinja am the majority owner of the water pipeline and the disposal of the Cetina region, where the partial and Split hinterland is powered and I will bring the solution. And it's going to be terribly simple, I can say it in two roars. So I'm giving you time to not be, and I've given you too much time. Even in the county, I was saying it the last time in the County Assembly, but I didn't know what it was about. But you've done well with the PR. That 10% of the crowds if you can listen to this is very important to the respected representatives of the ministry, they don't care, these waters play their own game is the latest game, which the secretary of state, and the new game well. Try it. I'd just say that you didn't collect 10% of the electricity, but you've collected a lot more electricity for the citizens of the Republic, and you've made it hard for the PR to fail us during that hep that's ours, and you see what we're doing, especially when we're talking about these mountainous and mountainous areas to the plains where we're going to have minor problems... they're not going to need enough energy. I've got a solution. I'll give you a few days to figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111622	There is a replica called Brumnic esteemed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111623	Dear fellow Bull. I expected you to explain to the ministry representatives that HEP is a state-owned company that produces 60% of electricity on amortised power plants, so there is no logical reason to collect that electricity. 25% of the products from a nuclear plant where there's also no reason to collect, so in this case, the state could practically limit the price of electricity at practically the entire state level. What could also make the income, or profit that HEP has from a billion and 400 million in the last year, or put before it into a cut in electricity prices. They didn't do any of these things, and the state did. is a 100% owner of HEP. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111624	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111625	True, I agree, however, and he has obligations for party campaigns to save that money, so local self-government must. Still, the people ultimately citizens entrepreneurs will not care to pay these costs. Of course they're generous and sponsors, they're generous severances in HEP, they've got family heirlooms in HEP they've got it all, they're our HEP, I mean ours, they're creating energy, but it's an inherited one company that would have said monarchy because everything is hereditary in it from the helical to the helical, but I have a solution to this problem. I only give them time to get along a little bit, but they or are confused, I saw that they started... when Zekanovic mentioned it then he must have got some kind of impasse from someone here, probably colleagues from Vodice. So I've got a solution to this problem 500 percent of the water supply in the mountain-mounted areas, I won't tell you, I'm trying to give you time to hear it soon, you'll hear it soon and it'll be well remembered, you'll remember it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111626	Next is the individual debate of the respected Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111627	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the long-standing debate on rebalancing and what was in some way and to expect the biggest debate to be about health care that was most discussed and somewhere in December when we had a debate here about the state budget for 2022. And that's not surprising, because when we look at the largest individual increase in the expenditure side right now, some nearly 4 billion kunas and the other biggest problem is that it's not if we at least paid for it, so that all the problems are gone, but the next month it's going to be 400, 500 million kuna again, so in a month after another 400, 500 billion, two very quickly accumulated, and on the next budget we'll probably be the most debated on the spending side of the health system. And what we have always said is this problem of expenditure and the consumption of a state that we cannot even with the revenue side, or we have no strategy on how to solve the problem of the expenditure side of the budget, and since knowledge and political will obviously does not exist either. We have, so for almost a year I appealed here at the beginning of this term when it was the problem of the Bat factory in Kanfanar to try a solution, remember there was a problem with excise duties and here today I am glad that this problem was solved. And today I read that in these two years they invested over 400 million kunas in production capacity, hired another 70 people, and that's what this country needs. Unfortunately, such examples are too little for us at this point, we need such industries not only in Istria but throughout Croatia, because there was also a colleague recently speaking, we built in Slavonia in some place a kindergarten, but the question is who we built it for. We've withdrawn funds from the EU, okay, but for who? And when we talk about EU funds, that's what I wanted to touch. So we have a situation that I think was precedentd in history that we from the Solidarity Fund didn't make it somewhere in the middle of the 6th month this year, we weren't ready to have enough capacity to pull it out and then we managed to get an additional period by the middle of the 6th month next year to withdraw all the funds. In the Recovery and Resistance Fund so far, we have only launched two tenders, only two competitions, everything we have at our disposal we have to contract in the next two years, and spend or use the funds we agreed on until 2026. We're already half of '22, time goes by, and when we see the Solidarity Fund that we haven't done a good job, when we see that in the Recovery and Resistance Fund we don't do a good job, when we see that, yes, we know that the praise is true we contracted over 120% of the funds in the last envelope, that's important, but it's much more important how much of these funds we pulled out or spent, and here we're at about 65%. And on the one hand, we have a development index where you punish someone who's a little bit more developed, and that would even be okay if we spent all 100 percent of our resources, and you refuse to spend any city or municipality project, and on the other hand, money is not spent. And then punish someone who works for it, not now, I can speak from the perspective of Istria from where I come from, but you have it in northern Croatia, so you have the end and the city of Zagreb. And that's what we appeal to and it's not that we're less solid, it's not our problem not to go anywhere else, but don't take away those who work and create. And I think it's really one thing that I'm trying to be constructive and give some example that those funds are being used especially when I'm justly stating that problems, that we have serious problems with the withdrawal of European funds because we have them, that's the fact. And better for us, the sooner we open our eyes to the team, the sooner we can solve that problem. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111628	We have several replicas, the first one is Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111629	Thank you very much. My colleague, you come from a more developed part of the body, you come from a more developed part of the Republic of Croatia we talk about Istria, but also the fact that you're talking about withdrawing funds that we have this problem that the funds are not being spent without certain local self-governments being able to get. However, the fact is also that the state should see that certain units of local self-government have no financial capacity, no knowledge, no experience, no ability at all to apply anything, and that is the problem in which we revolve around. We can't meet those obligations here, and on the other hand, someone who can't get it. And it would be fair, of course, that how evenly it is equaled that these undeveloped municipalities are developing on purpose that those who are building are not braked, but in us everything is the opposite, there is always some vicious circle in which they are spinning and there is no solution, similar to this collection of electricity. Electricity is not as more expensive, and for the citizens there will be 500 percent more expensive water. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111630	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111631	I agree with my colleague Bulj, we do not have the capacity in some units of local and regional self-government to write a project or apply it, there are no states either, but this is something we should have seen in the first envelope. I mean, we literally have a situation where someone who knows how to work with European funds, so there's no way they're going to go to work at a local and regional self-government unit. For what? For 7,500 kuna, look, they won't. Why? Because he's gonna make three times as much as a private man, and we got a serious problem here, too. So not only are the units of local and regional self-government having a problem with personnel, and that's why we're here, and that's why we're not able to solve the problems of the one I spoke about in my individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111632	Next replica, respected Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111633	Your Honor, you come from one of the most developed counties in our country, and I believe that just like all of us who are in the northwest, you have several possible units of local self-government that are not sufficiently developed, and which are also a problem with the employment of people and who have problems building projects. Nevertheless, I believe that the county has come to these people for help and that they have designed the project. However, given that Istria has been developed because Croatia does not withdraw money from funds, many projects that are finished are standing because it simply does not come money. Do you know how many projects are currently in Istria waiting for competitions to be held?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111634	So at this point in time to be honest, I don't know what the exact number of projects on hold is, but we are certainly ready at the county level, but I believe that both cities and municipalities are ready because for many years we've all been together in this whole story and we're just waiting for competitions to be discussed, but the problem is that these operational programmes and effective human potentials and competitiveness and cohesion and integrated territorial programmes are simply not called for because communication between the Ministry of Regional Development and eu funds with the European Commission is still clearly ongoing, and there are obviously certain problems. What are those problems? We don't know because we can't see correspondence, but there are obviously problems and they're obviously too slow to solve because here's what I've said for the past year and a half, and there's still no contest.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111635	Next replica honoured Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111636	I thank the chairman. Dear colleague. You were talking about eu funds and usability, not usability, absolutely agree with your claims, but my concern is even greater pro futuro, so what's just going to happen to NPOO. Namely, I don't know if you noticed, but there are announcements, and we can see by some tenders that the vast majority of the contests will be on the principle of the fastest finger. This means that not only those who have the highest quality projects will not gain but will neither be obtained by the development index necessarily but those who have the best connection to enter in the first second, two and on that basis the age of funds. That's how it works now in the energy efficiency competition when the people who came in first second were 750 and some in a row. So I think that's what's going to jeopardize both this budget plan and the spending of NPOO funds in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111637	Right, I agree. I agree exactly with you I think it's a big problem, I think that projects should be approved and valorized by their actual quality and by what they bring into the community in which these projects are to be implemented tomorrow. [[Stain Sanader: Answer.]] And now that you've mentioned this fastest finger and the Recovery and Resistance Fund, if I'm not mistaken, there was one tender for entrepreneurs, in principle, the fastest finger where the projects were accepted and even entrepreneurs got a decision on project financing, they went to work, or they went to their investments, which they applied for in order for the simple competition to be annulled, so the question is why. Did he get someone who didn't need it or didn't sign up for someone who needed it?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111638	Next is the individual debate of the respected Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111639	Thank you. Dear Vice President, the minister is gone, Your Honor. I am here because of all these discussions that our representatives of the ruling majority had here changed their debate entirely. First, we heard from the ruling that they condemn the assessments of some opposition MPs about the incompetence of ministers and government as a whole. Are we talking about incompetence and misunderstanding and poor consideration of the needs in the country by individual ministers or parts or the entire government in the period when the budget is being adopted is exactly the same for us. You can call it whatever you want but the result is the same, we see it today. Five months ago, the ruling majority said in a assembly in front of the entire Croatian public that the budget is good, developed, social, sustainable, loud and we vote for such a budget. Where are we today? When we claimed that this budget was not good, when we claimed that we had problems especially in the health care portfolio, you did not accept these arguments. Well, you've only missed on, you've only missed on the budget that's tied to the Ministry of Health you've missed 27% of the people. And they claimed it was okay. Five months later, today you're saying that, don't say that it was wrong last time, no, today you're saying that this is the real budget that this budget is good. And we're telling you again, it's not good, we're going to have rebalancing because of the same problems. In a few months we'll be doing the budget again, you'll be talking about the same reasons. The Russian invasion of Ukraine, health care, energy, global labour shortages, inflation, will all be listed as reasons for the next rebalancing. So please accept that something is wrong, that we need to change that, that we need to react differently. I've responded several times to stories about the number of employees here. Do not deceive the Croatian public and talk about the number of employees in a way that takes account of those who are registered to... Because that's not true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have a large number of students there, you have a large number of people working temporarily for a certain time. That should be considered. When you talk about paying off entrepreneurs in order to preserve jobs be fair and correct and tell the Croatian public how much of the money has come from Europe then you talk about it because it is not isolated from our budget, we did not earn it in Croatia, we got it from European funds. The claims about the big growth of the economy, what did you back them up to? Let's check it out in a way that we can get publicly available data. In a way to deal with 2020 when the Covid crisis hit us and then we see that VAT revenue growth in 2022 compared to the 2020 income plan marked a 28.11% growth. At the same time, the growth in income from the contribution is 18.56%. What does that tell you? This says that spending in Croatia did not grow because of the increase in wages but increased because of the increase in grants or payments from abroad of our people who moved out of abroad because they could not work here. That's the money that's being expressed in VAT today. And taking into account what happened with VAT that we've reduced the VAT rate to a large number of products that are good and what's good and what's good, then we realize how much we actually have price increases and how unfavourable it is for our citizens who live here. And we're doing absolutely nothing. It even went so far as to talk about the global crisis that hit the world from 2008 to 2015 and it was said that there was something wrong with the government that was then in power, from 2011 to 2015. Gentlemen, don't forget that your prime minister claimed that the global crisis would bypass Croatia and that he did absolutely nothing on this issue and left the country under fire and unprepared for the coming of the crisis. Well, that's the real truth of it. Today we heard again the announcement of a better life in Croatia and that pensions will grow 10%. Really commendable, but don't forget that yesterday was announced that inflation would be 9.6%. How much will we give the pensioners 0.4% increase in pensions? We're not giving anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111640	The first is the respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111641	Comrade Pavić, I'm really begging you now, stop lying to this tormented people. This rebalancing is not due to the war in Ukraine, not because of the failure of the government, not because of lack of vision, not because of corruption, not because of the fact that in the Ministry of Health furniture competes with florists and photographers, no, no, no, no, no. This rebalancing is probably due to World War II, I guess we still feel the consequences either of the Homeland War or of the corrupt Racan government or of the 2008 crisis, but God forbid it's because of the lack of vision or hearing of this government for something we warned about. So please, please stop making these incorrect allegations, unfortunately we don't have that institute anymore, so I can't lift it for you, I had to replicate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111642	Thank you, Your Honor. I think it's clear to everyone that what I said is absolutely true. Unfortunately, members of the ruling majority do not want to accept the fact that five months ago they missed the figure by, just for health care, 27%. It's not small and it's not enough, be careful it's not enough, we're gonna need that much more. We will need even more money to experience the end of the year and to give our fellow citizens medical attention. Without that money we'll have in the next rebalancing, there's no health care. And I've talked about it before, it's not just about this money that we owe to the wholesalers, it's also about the money we owe to HZZO because our hospitals owe us big money to HZZO because of the measures that were in place and it just couldn't be done with their tasks or jobs that they were supposed to do. Let me just tell you one thing, Special Hospital. In Krapina Spas, 90 million kunas are owed. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111643	The next replica honours Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111644	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, here you are, looking back at problems with the budget or budget rebalance in the health care sector. I find it interesting that there are actually no fellow doctors from the ruling option to praise this budget, obviously there is nothing to boast about health care, so there are none. But let's go back to health care, what you were saying. You're an IT expert, so then I love you guys about it. So, health system information, that's what 54,300 000 kuna are supposed to be, but the rebalance hasn't changed that amount at all. Do you think we have nothing further to inform? So will those funds be enough? We've got a lot of work to do. So not all health institutions are yet, have not established a hospital and information system, the issue of managing waiting lists, then connecting patient findings, e-Carton patients and editing the health system. We've got 209 grand more insurance than our residents. When's that gonna work out? So, informing the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111645	I don't know if you've been informed, however, over the past few months, systems have begun to move from hospitals to CDU. So at the Centre of Shared Services, with the goal of reducing information costs in hospitals. How successful and how successful it will be, I really don't know, it's difficult to assess at this point, however, it is certain that the Centre of shared services was not intended for this. But since we know how to fail and those systems that were needed there are currently being done in a way that fills this CDU in a way that actually the hospital information system is moving into that CDU. If all services were to be centralized, if it were in one place, it would be far, far cheaper than if every hospital were doing it for itself. Whether you will succeed in Croatia, whether it will succeed in such a short time, that is a big question. And I'm sure we'll have to invest a lot of money to keep our healthcare fully informed.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111646	Next replica, dear Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111647	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague. I must commend you, you said we were using EU funds. Yes, we use them very successfully, unlike the SDP coalition, which, when it was in power, didn't even know it, you had a very low percentage of usefulness from the European, EU funds, and as for our government and what it does in continuity, increased wages, increased pensions, and you only increased the tax burden on citizens, while we used our tax reforms to dissipate them. So tell me, today you're sharing advice, I wonder which direction you'd be going with this rebalas... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111648	Honorable MPs. After your failures five months ago and the failures you have today, this budget is impossible to fix. It's just impossible. I'm glad to use the funds to the extent they're used, and we just heard from my colleague Lerotić, they're not used. The funds are not withdrawn and have problems with the local self-government unit because it is not done. And you keep saying everything's okay. It's not okay. ... Well, no, I've made hundreds of suggestions. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] None has been accepted, but no proposal has been accepted. .../incomprehensible/... of this, the amendments we have stopped writing because no amendments are accepted. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] They're not good, are they? There, says Branko, they're not good. Well, if none were right, I don't believe it. So, fellow Members, I agree with you, it would be good if we were to withdraw funds, it would be good to spend that money from the EU, however, it is done to a small extent, and what is being spent, it is misrepresented.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111649	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111650	Thank you very much. Art. 238, so my colleague Jelkovac, quoting her colleague, doesn't lie, but sometimes she doesn't tell the truth. Here, now don't tell the truth. So how many times have we suggested things? Well, now we're proposing things. So when it was a budget, how many amendments did you refuse? So when we talk about what you're going to do, you're going to have to rebalance, so you're doing it on these things. So stop telling the truth sometimes, fellow Members, because it's really not right for these people who are trying to do something about this country here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111651	Okay, you used this for replica, so you get a warning, that's your third warning. You're losing your word until the end of the debate on this subject. Answer. Excuse me, Eric Fabianic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111652	I know it's in such a budget of VAT when you refer to, therefore, budget revenue, VAT, when you refer to our citizens working outside. But there is another item that is also important, and then it can be measured exactly how much VAT from people working outside comes from abroad, and that's what this country has forgotten to do for a long time, but now de facto it taxes income tax back 5 years for something it could do over and over again, and thus de facto, and it has put people working outside at risk just because they missed people informing that, if they have a residence in Croatia, they are working abroad, this, they are obliged to report income in this country as well. So it is also measurable growth and income tax, but also VAT that comes on that basis which is certainly bigger for those who have also checked out their residence in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111653	Dear colleague Fabianic, thank you for supplementing me. We already talked about it once, and I really didn't mention it today in my debate, but we're full of our mouths of tourism, and here, last year when we had the data, we still don't have the data, in the first half of the year we had more income than our people abroad, than we've earned from tourism, and that's still growing. And not to mention how much money is made by our people who work in Croatia, but who work for foreign companies, who work online, who are connected online and who actually work in a different way than those who are employed by us. It's forgotten. They're billions of kunas nobody's talking about. These people didn't hire this country. Unfortunately. I'm sorry. I'm sorry our youngsters are going outside.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111654	The last replica, respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111655	Thank you very much. My colleague Pavić, I don't know why you're angry, but if someone is lying, you're lying because I don't think you're telling the truth, the truth, the truth, because we're leaving the government in 2011, GDP expressed in billions of kuna, 338, and so 2012. 335, 336 2013, 335 2014 It's only 2015. 344, meaning some 5.6 billion more in that famous, large mandate of the SDP that eventually kicked you out of the party. The average salary in 30 years of statehood was our only time when it fell for 83 kunas at the time of that government of yours that you praise. I mean, what's that? If you need information we have everything here, you don't need to lie. This is math, an exact figure. We don't have much to talk about. Well, there's not a single number since 2016 that's no better than all the ones you've had, that I'm not talking about employment, unemployment, etc. I mean, you have the right to be angry, to be frustrated, but don't argue with the figures that are clear in the day. I mean, don't lie to people please!
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111656	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111657	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111658	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111659	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111660	You're getting a warning. This wasn't your replica. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Pavić. Mr. Fighter.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111661	You can insult as much as you want, you can also disrespect as much as you want, but you haven't heard a single word of praise from me for that government. I just said the fact, which is that your prime minister at the time claimed that the global crisis would bypass Croatia. That's what I said. If they were there, I didn't say the best results, and that government was as much mine as yours was, as this one is as mine as yours. These are our governments, because they should take care of us. You don't have your own government, and I have my government and you're the only one who disrespects, insults whoever you want, but at least you bring out the truth in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111662	Next is the individual debate of the respected Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111663	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the ministry. I can't be unempathetic to the Minister of Finance. It's hard to write a budget, and it's even harder to write a rebalance. And there's really how, I take off his hat, I take off his hat. But the way you defend that rebalancing is desperate, because we have political pants, we call on the past with a little lack of reasoned debate. That's very good PR, but look, I'm basically like I said for three decades I was in the parliamentary majority that had to defend the budget. Don't get me wrong you're below the level of local HDZ trust me, Boric knows something about it. It's not easy to write a budget, not a rebalance. We have some default parameters, so that's the cost. And on the other hand, look, always these moments can be half full, half empty. Can we just admit one thing to ourselves, that we as a state have problems that are structural. Here we all talk about health care, etc. Structural issues are decisive, only politics has to determine that. So in order to solve some things, we need to politically determine about structural reforms, whether it's health, whether it's something else without further ado. And for that, we should have political will. So if we don't have the strength for structural reform, then both the earthquake and the war in Ukraine come phenomenally well in political rhetoric but we lie to each other, we lie to each other. I'll have the same thing very specific. Speaking of rebalancing, I'll talk about APN. So the day before yesterday, it came out on the web site that credit subsidies were secured in the budget, i.e. in the rebalancing of 50 million kunas and by mathematics, they were de facto already spent. For what reason? Because if we have 2700 so far approved applications, 4200 total. When we multiply it by the average value of the loan, then we've fired that 5 million in the last five months. We shot them. Well, at the same time in rebalancing, we have a 42 million and 600,000 kuna strip. If I were dealing with rhetorical and stylish figures, but I'm not dealing with it, something was taken off of the total assets available to APN that's about 540 million kuna. What I am interested in, from that very point of view, is whether it is Mr. Maric as a proposer of de facto who wrote that budget tell the new minister to press this APN chief of yours a little bit more to do at least with regard to the data from the budget on real estate income. That's where we failed a little bit, so get him to work, so get him to soak the rest of the money. It's one of the options. It's a story that can be told based on numbers, we can tell them differently. Well, I see one other thing here. Then a man would say this rebalance is on my mother. So, after the proposal for a rebalancing has already passed, so I'm going to quote the minister's statement, he says, given the number of requests received normally, and the question is how many will be by the end of the year, so it's over, so the man works over the weekend, I'm taking off his hat to discuss the issue with the prime minister and the finance minister, and it's agreed that these funds will be provided so that he doesn't have to worry about it. So we take it off the rebalance 42 and something million, but here it is, we have a promise that it will eventually come back. Now whether, I'm interested exactly, taking into account the Budget Law, etc. whether there will be such amounts that they can be tolerated within the items so that we do not have to rebalance it no, but that all requests and that, which are procedurally justified, that, that this, that will be fulfilled not because otherwise this is the rebalancing of our mothers, no. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111664	Here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111665	Thank you very much, my colleague Fabianić injured Article 238, and I don't know what this finding of yours was that we are here at a level below the local level as representatives. I mean, I personally really know a lot of our locals and councilmen and regional and state officials, etc., I think that we're all certain abilities and try to offend someone that way, I think what you're going to do in that social democratic, what this party, the association, I don't know, so you have nothing but this state level, maybe everybody below you is not worth it, but it's just below every level that you say it. as one man who ran both congregations and was a politician etc. ... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111666	You win, you get a warning. Please, you get a warning. [[We have a soul.]] Replica, Renata Sablar Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111667	Thank you, Vice President. Let's get away from these, this kind of communication I don't support that way either. Structural reforms, you mentioned them. It has been pointed out many times today that we need a serious structural reform of health, but I don't think that's enough for us to have a terrible problem in the Republic of Croatia and that we need a series of these structural reforms, so please share with us what you think we should do first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111668	In my view, the priority would be what are most, the highest releases in the budget in a way that costs are optimised and rationalized, but the thing is, first of all, we have to build public perception that not everything is great and that it works well. And that we must all be aware of that. And let's also say for example. If you look at the logs, who is to blame because today it may be justified to protest drivers in the sanity transport. Drivers in the sanity transport are drivers who are in their homes of health. So, with whom, let's say, the Ministry of Health de facto doesn't have anything to do with it. And strike you know where, in those counties where that injustice exists. I don't know if you know it, but in the Primorian-Gorski County, they don't strike because it's even and because it's settled. So it's not all the fault of the state either, but we all have to get together to make the system better, more efficient and of course. _Other Organiser Habiting. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111669	There's a final debate coming up. The first is on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the respected representative Zeljko Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111670	I thank the chairman. Here's the good news, though, is that while we're late, we've seen debts and the need to pay these health debts urgently, it's been seen that 27% of the funds are missing so that our fellow citizens can continue to receive health care, so that they can buy medicines because without it, we'll soon be without the necessary medicines. It is also good that steps have been taken to reduce the energy crisis. We know that some 75-6 million will be invested for the cost of filling the Okoli, which is good. We also know that the suppliers will actually get that part or that they will have to invest that part of the money needed to do so, to fill that warehouse. Of course, here I think primarily of natural gas and, therefore, in this rebalancing, we support that these items change and adapt to the needs of our citizens. What I can't figure out is how it's possible that our country is unable to do anything to reach oil and gasoline prices that are more than 40 percent in our country than in Hungary. Unfortunately, I did not get an answer to my reply to Minister Maric, and I asked who made a mistake in his assessment, whether it was the Minister of Health who misplanned or reduced his planned size in the Ministry of Finance. It would be good to hear that answer today so that we know whether the Minister of Health is completely lost in his evaluations or if someone has decided in advance that health services will be reduced, and with our fellow citizens who have health problems as they are, let them go to Slovenia and ask for help in other EU countries as well. I will repeat the question again what about the funds that were to be planned and reserved for the North Development Agreement. Ministers here are not just about Minister Fuchs how you responded to me because the signing of the agreement was made by the prime minister and 7 ministers, so these are projects that are related to the 7 ministries. Here we have our colleagues from the northwest, you have heard it, you have read it, you have been present, you know what has been signed, but here, unfortunately, from 27.12. to this day, no meeting has been held, and there is no initiative by the ministry that this money really is invested in these projects to be invested in. I ask you this on behalf of the residents of 5 northern Croatian counties who are happy to threaten to sign the agreement, and now they wonder why the northwestern is forgotten and why nothing is done under this agreement, why nothing is happening, why the ministry does not respond to meetings, why there is no progress from the signing to today. Just to remind you that there are extremely important projects here, some projects are also related to almost all counties such as. Construction of the fast railway line Čakovac-Varaždin-Bellhead-Krapina-Zabok-Zagreb so-called. No sign of voice since the beginning of any activity on that part. And what the county would like to see is that the sooner we start, unfortunately, so far, nothing is solved. So this isn't the Minister-related Minister of Fuchs, this is about the other minister. You answered me today that there is no Minister Fuchs, so you can't answer these questions to me, but I repeat again the seven ministers who were at the signing of this agreement and in fact these projects refer to the 7 ministries. We have these very important projects that are also related to the growth of the economy, there are educational institutions, there are also health institutions. Let's not forget that this is about just this part of the eye, about these 15.2 billion kuna projects, and then there are 754 million kuna for the economy and industrial transition of the north of Croatia and another 65.5 million kuna for the preparation of project documentation. So that's all missing, I don't see it in the budget, and I'd like to see it, and it would be good if I could get information, so this way, I'm asking you to send me information on what's going on with these projects, where they're in the phase, where the items were planned or not planned at all, or not planned at all. And lastly, I would also ask government representatives and representatives of the ruling majority to stop simply dealing with politics, not to talk about the reforms that are supposed to be implemented anymore, because you know that they will not be implemented, but that you again and finally start to deal with politics and start managing the state and state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111671	Following is the final debate on behalf of Green-left bloc advocates, respected Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111672	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, means several times when we talked about the budget here, we said that what it is for us is crucial to see both the policy and the public policy that the government wants to implement. It is very clear what this government is giving priority, and what it is actually taking away some potential for development. In this regard, although my colleagues and colleagues have already talked about individual items and individual problems, I will say something about amendments because our amendments also express our policy and what we consider a priority. For example, we are asking for an increase in the allocation of assistants from 29 to 35 million kuna for the reason that for almost 8 years, continuing assistants are being financed from the ESF of the European Social Fund and, meanwhile, the number of students who need this type of assistance as well as the number of assistants has increased multiplely. The standards set during this series of years have now become truly a valuable part of the education system and are an important step both in inclusiveness and in equating the educational and social opportunities of our students. For this reason, we believe it is necessary to increase this amount because many units of local self-government do not have the financial capacity to finance the work of the required number of assistants in the follow-up, and then we also have large regional differences where this service is available, and where it is not in case we do not actually have enough funding from the state budget. Another thing that also shows what we are giving priority to as a public policy is that we are looking for an increase in funding for civil protection projects from 2.8 million kuna to 42 million kuna. Because it is clear that the biggest threat to us, the biggest threats are related to climate change and are related to floods, fires and other accidents that we have witnessed for many years. In this respect, we need to strengthen the overall capacity of civil protection and invest in it. We would also like to stress that especially small units of local self-government are not able to develop therefore systems that contribute to civil protection and therefore give this increase absolutely necessary. We also ask for the implementation of the National Plan to combat corruption from 16.5 thousand kuna to 2 million kuna. We don't think that 2 million kunas are enough, but either delete that item from the budget or because really 16 thousand kunas are written to be given to implement a corruption control programme in a country where corruption is perceived as the biggest problem is really funny or we're going to give serious money for it. Now we come up with a phenomenal, phenomenal phenomenon in our budget that really reflects the state of mind of our Minister Banozic. So, let me just tell you how he sees the politics of the defence of the Republic of Croatia. For the development of the cyber capabilities of the Croatian military, he proposed to allocate 8.5 million kuna, while, for example, asking for 10.5 million kuna for spiritual care. Here's what people tell you, it tells you everything where Croatia is and where we are in the century. So cyber security and cyber attacks today are one of the biggest and most real threats that we have, and you have it in the reports of both MORH and SOA and VSOA, but we will not give it any more for spiritual care than for the development of cyber security. In that sense, of course, our amendment goes too. We are also asking to increase from 3 million kuna to 13 million kuna to improve the protection of victims of domestic violence, while these funds are taken with administrative support from the University of Defence and Security. Why the University of Defense and Security? I don't know if you remember when Minister Banozic represented the project here at the university said he didn't need budget funds. How are the budgets now needed? And as much funds as it's supposed to be budgeted. We also ask for the funds to be provided for the introduction of civil education and education, while reducing support to the Croatian Catholic University in Zagreb would also show what the policy of the 21st century of this government is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111673	Following is the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Marina Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111674	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers along with their associates. Here's to the end I promise not to use all five minutes so we can leave a little early today and especially respect all of you who have been here all day in the assembly and followed this debate. Here it is, the first rebalance of this year's budget I'd say nothing new, something we've seen in about the past years, maybe something we can expect in the coming years. Incomes are increasing by over six and a half billion kuna. If we're going to talk a little bit about structure, of course we're looking forward to increasing tax revenues that are the main revenues of any budget. When we look at profit tax, the planned income from profit tax increases by some 900 million kuna. Of course it also outlines certain increased economic activity, i.e. expected economic activity. As for the increase in VAT and the minister explained, and today it was debated whether this led to an increase in inflation and the fact that the basis for the tax return has increased or economic activity. The minister also mentioned on the board yesterday, probably a combination of each other. It's not just inflation. There is also increased economic activity. Of course, this can also be seen through increased and increased employment and wage growth, which is then re-drawn on increased planned revenue from contributions. A happy and billion kunas planned more than EU funding. As for expenditure, of course the most important thing was health care. The minister made it clear that as long as he doesn't get rid of his health structure, we'll have about the same story. It's just that it's been missed initially in budget planning for this year when we brought it in by about 27% last fall. I wouldn't agree with that. In fact, the logic and policy of the Government is clear, i.e. the competent minister, who every year in the budget is actually as much in his capacity as he is trying to say so to trust as much as possible, and then as the year goes, then follow the natural rebalancings that are somehow reflecting and happening throughout the year. So in addition to increasing the resources for health care, for pensions, of course we have an increase in funds caused by some kind of mishap, of course by the situation in Ukraine by Russian aggression. When I finally talked about the budget last fall, too, that I also looked back on potential risks, we had a coronal virus in progress, a smoldering inflation, and somehow we all called for it to be. But there's the devil in the second month who'd have thought he'd be at war, so there's a problem with energy. No one expected it. Of course, it is up to the government and the Ministry to adapt and respond. And then again we have those energy measures that came in this spring, early spring, and we see actually the results of that in this year's budget. I'm glad to see the public service salary rise by 4% again, of course we need to secure the funds for that. I remain responsible for saying that public services have low wages, much lower than they are in the real sector. And the problem is actually to keep and win the highest quality people in public service. I know that from an example of local self-government, and I'll always be on the rise in salary as much as it allows for the budget. I am pleased to see 104 million kunas increase the budget for sport. We somehow know how important it is to us and how much we love to boast about it, and every increase, of course, is commendable. I'll just take a quick look around. There were complaints here that for energy prices to rise, inflation that it was deserved by the government, or the government's mistake, and when something is good, when wages rise, when employment is growing that it's the result of the market. Totally wrong I would say, we cannot say that the policy measures of this and the previous governments are not responsible for the increase in wages and for the increase in employment. And just for a little while, as far as the budget law is concerned. I don't think it's an invisible law, a law that goes under the radar. I would say that to whom a very important law can actually be observed and as some guidance for the use of the budget, modernizes, facilitates actions. That's it. Thank you from me. The HDZ club supports it. But cut it short! [[/Intruder: For a second!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-05-18-0.u111675	Here's what we've exhausted the debate with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue tomorrow morning at 9.30 p.m. Final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing infrastructure for alternative fuels. SESSEN INTERNAL IN 19.44 HOURS
