ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100488	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, we move on with the agenda. Today is the first point we announced: - Final proposal of the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 242. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Josip Salapic I'm sorry. [[We've got breaks.]] Here is the first respected representative of Romana Nikolic, please explain the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100489	Thank you, Vice President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club to point out that the motioner has failed to resolve what is most important, which is the core of this law, which is the protection of the applicant's irregularities. That's how I'm going to quote a whistle that, after she's come out publicly, she's left behind, her jobless, abandoned, left to the mercy of our judiciary. I'm sorry that I whistled in Croatia because I turned out to be a high-tech freak without a job. If I'd done it anywhere in a decent legal state in the EU, she'd probably be a hero, said Adriana Cretin. The aim of the law should be to prevent and prevent a person from reporting irregularities, not to apply the law after revenge occurs. It is said daily that fighting corruption is extremely important. This law is one of the strongest anti-corruption mechanisms, therefore it is necessary to be applicable, quick and effective, especially to persons in need of protection, which is to applicants of irregularities. The whistlers who decide to step forward for general interest in their courage are jeopardizing their careers, their jobs, their existences, and too often health and the lives of themselves and their families. The Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularities must not only protect these brave people but also ensure, by means of clarity, speed and extent of sanctions, that declared institutions, companies, as well as responsible persons, do not even come under attack for revenge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100490	The next request for a break from respected MPs Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100491	Thank you. I'm looking for a 10-minute recess for further consultations. This law has not solved the fundamental question of who the whistler is. A whistler should have someone who reported an irregularity, as did the Homeland War defender, someone who defended Croatia during the war conflicts, and all the laws governing their status and the rights resulting from it were passed afterwards. So, if we, Mr. Salapia, were to address you, so please listen to me, if we were to apply that principle then we wouldn't have a problem with retroactive application of this law and we would really come to the point of at least the way it's prescribed. So this is not a law that protects whistles in any way, this is a law that whistles against them. It was found in the explanation that it was in the past 2 years. There were very few applicants of irregularities, so let's ask ourselves why this is the case in a country where there is widespread perception of systemic corruption at all levels, so these two data are in great contrast with each other. This should lead us to conclude that the concept and content of this law does not serve its fundamental purpose. This is actually a law on registering irregularities, on inventing additional bodies that will forward applications, and is not a law that will better address these applications and protect whistles better. It's costing a lot of money. Now we have heard that those who report an irregularity, stay out of work, remain without existence, are being prosecuted by a number of court proceedings, but still do not have the right to free help from a lawyer. At the same time, the state authorities that reported lawyers are funding from public funds, so we're funding corruption, not the whistle protection system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100492	Next request for a break, respected representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100493	Thank you. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club in order to consult on this bill which does not respect everything that we have proposed as representatives, but not even all the conclusions brought by the Anti-Corruption Council, where not only politicians are sitting but also experts who are systematically dealing with corruption problems. Every day I get a call from at least three or four people with certain reports of irregularities and they're so afraid to send an email about these irregularities or tell me something on the phone, through a cell phone about these irregularities than I have to meet them somewhere in a secret place to hand over certain documentation. It says how scared people in Croatia are of reporting irregularities. Why is that? Well, because it's from this place where Mr. Salapic sits in 2018. Prime Minister Plenkovic said one popular wisdom, such notions do not lead to anything. He sent a message that it was not worth reporting irregularities and that his message was received by an epilogue that on the same day the DORH rejected Mr. Sabek's criminal charges that exposed corruption in our embassies. And that man has been fighting for almost four years, being hunted like a beast just because he exposed corruption, and yet none of those who reported it have been killed. This is the protection of applicants of irregularities in the Republic of Croatia, and what is necessary is secondary legal aid paid, therefore all applicants of irregularities independent of the property censorship.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100494	Next request for a break, respected representative Vesna Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100495	Thank you very much. I am looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club in order to once again highlight several facts that are simply irrefutable, whistles as we call them, or applicants of irregularities as they call them, are one of the key pillars of the fight against corruption. We live in a country where the Prime Minister very often points out that zero tolerance is corruption. On the other hand, whistles are reporting corruption in what we call a colloquial state. So these are public companies, utility companies, public institutions, and when you look at this bill right at the beginning, the goal is to protect whistles. And we have to wonder who we're protecting them from. So the state protects whistles in the end from the state. And would that be necessary at all if this fight against corruption and that zero tolerance on corruption were something that is real, something that is the true commitment of this government or it's just on a declarative level. In a country where 97% of the population has a perception of extremely large corruption that comes from justice, we have to ask ourselves, how will this judiciary protect whistles or is it according to that people's "cadia and sues, cadiya and judges". So we have a situation where this law should protect whistles from the state, and in the end they should pay for it themselves and seek that justice in court, which means that this law will not achieve what is most important, which is to protect and strengthen whistles as one of the key pillars in the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100496	Next for a break, respected representative Barbara, and pardon Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100497	Thank you. So I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left Block for 10 minutes to re-emerge the importance of this law. The fact is that we live in a society where corruption is, in fact, an acceptable social pattern. The disaster situation with corruption is also seen in the anti-corruption strategy from 2021 to 2030, which aims to reduce corruption to 80%. As a result, it is no wonder that Croatian citizens believe that the government is a failure in fighting corruption and ordinary people believe that they can change, start changes in the fight against corruption. And that's why this law is so important, because it's a powerful anti-corruption weapon, and that's why we have to instill in it such provisions that will really prevent revenge against applicants of irregularities and provide them with the right and effective protection. So far, we see that the law so far has only been an attempt to regulate and regulate this area. But the whistle protection didn't really come into practice. And it is therefore extremely important to pass a law that will allow this adequate protection to whistlers. It should be noted that the open and accessible negotiations of the Republic of Croatia to the OECD are open, the detailed evaluation process will be prepared provided that the adherence to values, visions, priorities reflected in the OECD's 60th anniversary vision and one of the OECD priorities is precisely to establish an effective system of protection for applicants of irregularities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100498	The next request for a break from respected MPs Barbara Antolic Vopor.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100499	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP for 10 minutes. In fact, the law itself has only normably regulated what the EU is somehow asking us to do. This is not a step forward towards orderly society, towards the protection of whistles, according to their safety and life that is sometimes threatened. Nothing is protected and their safety regarding material resources. So the asset censorship for those who ask for free legal aid is at stake again. It's not the same available psychosocial assistance to everyone. It should regardless of the explanation that it says will mean a delay in the law itself, psychosocial assistance should be provided immediately without delay. So, a man who is under great pressure like most citizens of this country today and comes to an existential threat he needs such help without delay, not under an excuse we hear countless times. So the law is a dead letter on paper. This will mean we're just going to add up the applicants, but we're not going to essentially help with the arrangement of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100500	Next request for a break, respected representative Nikola Mažar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100501	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, Honorable Proposer, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes to point out once again that this final draft of the law that lies ahead is essentially the continuation of the law that this Croatian Parliament and the Republic of Croatia adopted in 2019 when we became among the first EU members to adopt a single legal framework in order to create greater legal protection for applicants of irregularities and we have already shown the importance of this topic. So this isn't one of the laws we're making, this is a strategic document. This is a document that will strengthen the application and increase citizens' awareness of reports of irregularities. That this law has been made not only to comply with the EU directive but also to ensure that everything that has been seen over the past 3 years is done and repaired quality shows and proves that in a broad discussion other than the RS government's resolution ministries, the Office of the Public Attorney and Association, such as the Pomak Association and trade unions, and all those who have connections to this and who are satisfied with the proposals adopted. We will also see today through the debate that proposals and different parliamentary committees have been accepted, but what is crucial and what is most important is that this final proposal of the law extends the circle of applicants, increases their protection, reduces and abolishs deadlines, clear reporting channels are given, clear competent authorities who will not only process this, but also return information and certainly create a more quality and stronger legislative framework which I believe will absolutely result in a greater reporting of irregularities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100502	Now, let's get on with our work. We normally approve of all their demands. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100503	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Yeah, hang on a second, usually the replica rises when someone doesn't say it. Respected MPs and advocates act quite motivated and encouraged that after a year and a half of the work of experts in charge of this area the protection of the right of applicants of irregularities, as employees of the Ministry of Justice and Administration, as well as respected and respected professors, as well as the female attorneys, as well as the association involved in the protection of whistles which we have professionally received and heard in the Ministry of Justice and Administration. So here today, after the final text of the law, one side says it's a dead letter on paper, that we didn't do anything, that it's a camel, a holy water. The other side says we have a quality law, if we had passed it before the EU in 2019, and I would have said what would have been summed up first to thank everyone who worked on this law. Also, what is important for the Croatian Parliament and for your MPs and MPs that we in the Ministry of Justice and Administration held at least 10 meetings with representatives of the European Commission not only concerning the implementation of the EU Directive concerning the protection of persons who report irregularities and infringements of Union law but also in the manner in which the law will apply in the legal space of the Republic of Croatia. Why do I say that? If we were going to pass a law that was no good to him, that we were going to underestimate whistles, publishers of irregularities, that we were not going to bring this law seriously, professionally and impartially to any group and people, we would not have delegated this law to the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which is one of the essential factors for fighting corruption and preventing corruption in the Republic of Croatia. It is something that can be freely said that our assessment was that the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia is maximum protection of such persons, as well as protection of the space of fight against corruption. Who liked it, didn't like it, is now a matter of political assessment and perception. We also had quality discussions on various parliamentary committees and on the Council of Anti-Corruption National Council chaired by the President of the Council, Mr Nikola Grmoya, the thematic session. We have indeed accepted part of the Council's conclusions, part of it, one of the conclusions concerns the President of the Supreme Court we can't, but what we have accepted is so similar to what we keep records of the protection of victims of violence and witnesses, which is that the Ministry of Justice and Administration in cooperation with courts keeps records of such cases. It is not only a record to be kept as a record but we, in cooperation with the Presidents of the Court, will have more direction in implementing this law. First of all, it is to keep records, and in the second part we will ask the President of the Courts to approach this topic as if it were to resolve what the law allows and enables in the adoption of a temporary measure to address this in an urgent procedure. It is similar to that in the executive procedure, and in this section it is necessary to prove and worry that revenge or violence will be determined against a person who has the possibility, need and the right to report an irregularity. So that's something that we now have at the Department of Justice and Administration to do. What is the difference between respected MPs and MPs compared to first reading. Therefore, we have provided channels of application in accordance with the European Directive with internal, external and public disclosure. What we didn't agree with the attorney general was that the whistler should be used in order 1, 2, 3, before internally, then externally, and possibly public disclosure. We have estimated that it is best that the whistler has the right to decide for himself how he wants to report an irregularity. And then he'll decide he wants to go through the employer's body, or he wants to go through the attorney general's office, or he wants to put it directly into the public media, and then everyone finds out it's some kind of corruption scandal. What's true in some public cases where I don't want to, and it's not polite to talk about the names of people here at the pay phone, many whistlers who have reported, people who have reported irregularities have had some problems and this law hopefully prevents and protects us better. It is also a fact that people who have been reported in prison are currently on their way to prison. That's also true. It's also true other than this, there are other channels of application. It's your state's attorney's office, the police, the Bounce. So, as to the protection of corruption, there are more modes, channels where people can publicly, anonymously, however they want to report the knowledge they have about possible corruption. What is also important to highlight, we here protect both whistles and connected persons and members of their families, and what we differ with the opinions of the Ombudsman's Office is that the applicant of irregularities can only be a natural person, that is true, it can only be a natural person. The other thing is that in art. The 11th law states that it can be in a connected person a legal person. We believe in the Ministry of Justice that a legal person has certain rights, not only do we consider those who were in the working group but there is a European Court of Human Rights ruling where legal persons have limited rights, not as a natural person fundamental human rights, but rights relating to the principle of legality, independence, impartiality, protection of certain employers from mobbing, revenge, etc. And we now have certain amendments that some of us have accepted, some of us are still considering seeing if in a connected person can appear as a person who has been injured by law and by a company or a company that is found in relation to a whistler, it is very possible. So, if the whistler has decided to publicly expose the employer and, in that case, there is a possible connection that the person who is the whistler has in that company is a connected person who can be through the family line, private lines, the friendly lines of a person who is a company and works with that employer, and then the employer out of revenge kicks that company out of his business neither guilty nor due to the law, and then we think that the attorney general who protects everyone's rights under the Constitution should also consider this situation if then the legal person has the right to protect against the Ombudsman who should, of course, work in accordance with his constitutional powers, and we should also work in accordance with our European obligations and the European Convention on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Now I know what follows, follows that we have done nothing, etc., I believe that we have regulated this normative area by this law, that we have implemented the directive, protected additional persons, allowed there to be a temporary measure in the court, and we have also made it possible to protect against revenge, to define what kind of application may be. It is no longer unified that it must only be written this way, it can be oral, it can be through means of communication to modern technologies etc., so this law is a much greater step than the Republic of Croatia has so far. We also did not accept that we have a special body in Croatia to deal with as a new "investigation" body that will deal with whistles. We have a civil defender who has his own office where we've given new employees, certain financial resources, and if we're going to look at an average like that on average now is the condition that we currently have about five of these items per month. We've given five new people this year and some financial resources that will allow the occupier's office to function. And a new body compared to the bodies we have, which is the police, the BOOK, the DORH, the PNUSKOK, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, etc. really in a country like this with... sometimes unnecessary, no matter what anyone thinks about protecting these people. We've done a lot of things here, probably someone will when they're standing in the future here instead of me repeating something that I said maybe something smarter and better, but it's not fair and it's not right for people who are experts in this area that we say that they really haven't done anything. I don't know. At the last meeting, the European Commission praised what we prepared, the Economic Social Council played a role in this, we received representatives of the Pomak Association. You know, when something bad happens to someone, we're sorry it's happening, there's a fate power that needs to be resolved. We want a temporary measure that no one can get fired for this. And what will happen in this independent judicial procedure? It'll happen how the court assesses. We've seen that this makes sense, that some people who broke the law ended up in a prison of investigation, a prison, or they're on trial. We see that it makes sense to protect these people, but it really doesn't make sense to call the government and all those who worked on this and the MPs who support this given the current composition of the forces in the assembly to say that we and the people who have been working on this work for a year and a half have come here to tell you that we brought you nothing. It seems demotive and it's not fair. The future will show if this is good, if we have made a step, is Croatia in line with the European acquis and whether we have really protected the people. If we're going to single out only two out of these 58-year cases, three believe there are more, we have a report there was a dispute as to whether the persons who have been reported should have protection. Now imagine the situation, and there are different bodies that receive applications, there are different committees in the assembly, there is this and the body in the state's attorney's office and USKOK there is that in us at the Justice Department. There's also an obscenity report, so you have people who report tens, 20, 30 times one thing and the same thing, that's what someone needs to investigate, independent bodies, so judgmental authority, etc. And now imagine that the employer who was falsely reported has no right to absolutely no protection except to go private to sue that person. In accordance with the directive, we implemented the situation in the Croatian legal space that and the employer if he is falsely declared with intent, if this is proved of course in an independent court procedure he has the right to protection because it is the same human right, it is the same fundamental right that both sides should have. And all the honor of what is true, which is to inform the public that corruption and notification is happening and punishment for who did it, then we have achieved our goal, but let's not narrow it down. We are going to the Law to protect applicants of irregularities, we have other laws that are criminal spheres, we have other bodies that run procedures and honestly following the situation in the Croatian prison system, we have a much bigger number in prison than we have in the past two years, and I think that the investigative bodies and the Croatian legal system and bodies dealing with the punishment of courts are doing their job very well and there are many situations that you may not even know about, which are decided that the public did not know that, but in a way that those people ended up where they belong. So I ask you respected MPs and advocates to take this Law on the Protection of Reporter Irregularity, all of us take as our first priority the domestic obligation of Croatia and then the international and then simply put into legal traffic the law that we consider to be better than we had. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100504	We have a lot of replicas, the first respected representative, Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100505	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. With a number of praises you have heard and you will hear from the other side of the assembly, but objective criticisms from this side that you have heard, you will hear something, I have seen it in the part where you read the comments and suggestions that you have not accepted about the question about possible increase in the number of bodies for external application under this law is the Office of the Public Advocate where you say, I think that in terms of increasing the number of bodies, the position of the promoter is that given the relatively small number of applications in the last two years there is no need for this. What kind of message did you want to give? It's like a small number of applications, so I guess there'll be a small number of applications, so what we have is enough. Regardless of the increase in material resources and these five new employees you mention will receive from the Office of the Public Attorney. These people have to be educated, they have to have some kind of experience to help people who are whistlers. So what kind of message do you take with these attitudes? Hala.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100506	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100507	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear MPs, you will do as we read, as we understand. So our message was like this. When we first passed that law in 2019 before the European Directive, the Office of the Attorney General or the Advocate General, who was then I do not know, did not accept at all that he was taking care of this sector. They did not want whistles to enter their system as if there were an office that would only deal with the protection of applicants of irregularities because of the reason that there are no human resources, that there are not enough people, that there are no financial resources. We followed the statistical rate of objects, so for this year we gave five plus one person six and financial resources. At the end of this year, we will increase the number of employees if this shows the need of the attorney general and the number of cases she receives. This is not a mistreatment of the number of cases but a financial situation where we are responsible for the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Administration and we cannot hire people on jobs that will have nothing to do. That's what this is about. So it's a pure matter of tracking logic and our financial resources. Do I need to hire a law enforcement officer who's going to work in a prison that's got work to do? We hire three new people here who won't do anything. It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100508	The next replica is the respected representative of Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100509	I would like to thank Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The final proposal for a law does not include a very important provision on the provision of secondary legal assistance for all future applicants of irregularities. The primary legal aid was introduced, and we can freely say that it is a pizza of cake because it is legal advice without representation, without making and one submission in court, and that is actually all that costs a whistler. If you claim to be fighting corruption, to encourage all those who have seen any irregularities in the work to report, I believe that this should also be entered into the legislative framework.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100510	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear MPs, there are more elements when we mention free legal aid. So, free legal aid is I don't know how deep someone has entered the law on free legal aid. Free legal aid has specific criteria for a person to receive free legal aid. When we passed amendments to the Law on Free Legal Assistance, we saw how many people cheat on the state, how many people take free legal aid and come with expensive cars to court, they have certain assets that they hid, etc. etc. We, in free legal assistance, want to introduce order. We have thought well about what the widths are where we should give full free legal aid. In this case, where you have a whistler, the applicant of an irregularity who reported an irregularity in the employer, and you have another person who appears to the State Attorney's office with a criminal application for an anonymous name and has no protection whatsoever. Then we have to think about it, about spreading the Institute of Free Legal Assistance to all the modes, and sitting together and seeing how much it's really going to cost the state. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100511	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100512	Article 238 has been injured. It is unfortunate that Secretary of State Salapic does not understand that every society and every state has certain principles to protect. We don't care if any of the applicants have any irregularities this much or so much money. We want to send a message as a society and state that we will protect all applicants of irregularities, not that when they report something out of their pocket they will pay legal aid. We want to send a message to report It's good for society. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Society will protect you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100513	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. This is where you replicated the Secretary of State. You're getting a warning. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100514	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. Here is what we heard from your introduction, so besides extending the right of opportunity and all that this law has passed and what they have welcomed, both the civil society and the Office of the Attorney General and the other institutions that participated, we see and here, since you cannot respond to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you can respond to my line, so you can relate to your colleague Grumo. So we see that one segment that is let's say perhaps to the public interesting about free legal aid is now trying in some way to politicise, and what you just said not only through this law, but also through other laws, specifically through the Law on the provision of free legal aid is regulated this situation. And we already have for this year that tenders are being opened for associations where concrete funds will be allocated precisely to provide free legal assistance and to those who report irregularities, and on the other hand we went a step further to go into emotional assistance to applicants.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100515	Thank you very much, Your Honor. That is exactly what these laws and a series of laws we have passed lately, which are about fighting corruption. In free legal aid, we should have introduced a resa. I think we've made a law that's currently in force that's good. We have allowed a number of associations to appear in providing free legal assistance and compared to before, to receive in time the funds they should naturally justify there were any problems as they spend but in time to get to work on the ground. You are sad that it is always, but well that is history, we will endure today's debate, all right that absolutely someone is immediately against it if it comes from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If we weren't fighting corruption we wouldn't have 5150 a year in a prison of investigation, 5150 people. I guess we should put another 10,000 'cause someone pointed a finger at anyone who's a counter-opposal thief. So, okay. if that's the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100516	Please, Mr. Miletić and Grmoya, put on a mask.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100517	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The secretary of state, for the sake of the public, we who have somewhat entered the matter are pretty clear to us, this is more for the Croatian public. So here's the deal. I work at the state company and I see corruption that's wrong and I come in and report to the state firm, so I become a whistler, report it. And then if I get it right, that's why I'm asking you, and then the state firm sues me, using taxpayers' money is you, and if I have the right to come and choose here's bartulica's lawyer because he's a top-notch and Bartulica's lawyer comes to court and he defends me. So, what am I saying? Not only to be critical, this law is progress, it is certainly progress, so it is my opinion that it is not questionable, but this is a big problem, so if you can comment on the Croatian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100518	Thank you very much, President. You can comment if you let me do your sequence. So I said that there are 58 cases a year, 5 cases a month, I won't talk about names. And it happens in a certain space that when there's not too much halabuca in some cases, then the case is resolved completely independently where neither the investigating bodies nor the court are pressured to do their job. And in some situations there is media space, political space, the work of an independent judiciary is limited, and then you get a job somewhere like in this case who got it in Split on the basis of political will. So I don't call any people, but that you have a lot of politics in it, too. If a party is to be in court for 2 years and then assess that after 2 years of court proceedings, the whistler should be made public, I believe that the whistler should act immediately after an emergency procedure, report an irregularity immediately, as the court should immediately adopt a provisional measure to protect such a person. It's just a string I kept going, I didn't say names.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100519	Mr. Miletic mask. Honorable representative Vesna Nadj, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100520	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State and I at the Social Democrats Club believe that the moves have been made in this law, but as Col. Nikolic said, even though you had a working group and a staff lawyer, or a representative of the Ombudsman and representative of the Pomak Association as a whistler, you did not accept their proposals, and we all know the good public administration is responding to the needs of the users. The users are actually whistlers. And if the attorney general who's going to implement a part of that law, most of that law actually gives you some observations, then it would be kind of logical to accept her remarks as well. Therefore, I suggest that you reconsider the comments on secondary legal aid and the temporary ban on firing and the around Psychosocial [[Intruder: Time.]] Help. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100521	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100522	Dear MPs and you participated in the working bodies of the assembly, and we have already debated. So, we've accepted a lot of proposals from the attorney general who was part of our task force. As far as psychosocial assistance is concerned, there is a department for the protection of victims of witnesses and violence in the family of psychosocial, psychological and emotional assistance. In the Ministry of Justice, there is a special body that runs it, which receives those persons. We felt that the level of applicant irregularities was, should be at this level protecting persons from domestic violence, witnesses, victims etc. There is a certain kind of help and we accepted it. There's an amendment we'll accept. For free legal aid, I already told you. So, and the priory of 20 proposals if we three suggestions with our explanation didn't accept it doesn't mean that we didn't accept anything. As far as this connected person is concerned, the legal person that I have now interpreted as the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, the European Court of Justice dealing with these issues, and here we have given an explanation. So we're professionally diverged within the limits of this law, but we priors are not against the attorney general nor against its proposals, so at least 20 of us have accepted it. That's not what you're talking about. So you're the ones who caught these three who were Key, but I think we've accepted. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100523	The next replica is Urša Raukar Gamulin's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100524	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State in Article 24 provides that the competent authority for the application, for the external reporting of irregularities, shall be the Advocate General. But what happens to the DORH or the State Inspectorate? So, if these bodies are not introduced into a circle of those bodies that report irregularities, there may be an absurd situation for whistles that report a criminal report and therefore a cancellation period, they remain unprotected. Well, here in the directive it is not specifically envisaged that there should be only one body for external or internal reporting, only mentioning channels of reporting irregularities. So here's my question is very specific, are you ready in this final debate in the assembly to accept and suggest and expand the circle of external notifiers i.e. bodies that can report an irregularity in this sense in which I spoke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100525	Thank you, Your Honor. So there's what I've already explained, but I'm just gonna stick to public disclosure. Public disclosure when the whistle jumps under quotes all these two levels and decides it's an urgent interest to be a public disclosure that will be made available immediately to the public. Likewise, a person who wants to report an irregularity or a possible crime as well as me and you do not prevent us from reporting it simultaneously to both the police and the State's Attorney's office and the USKOK and whoever we want. This application may be anonymous, name and last name and already at the request of the applicant. So, the whistle in this situation, in accordance with the limits of this law, has 3 channels of application, but no one crosses a person to have yet its own channel that they want, which is to address the investigative bodies of the Republic of Croatia. We didn't limit anyone from following this law alone. If it's a crime, then the attorney general's authority stops, the investigating bodies are involved. We did not burden the Ombudsman absolutely too much than we thought it was the only relevant body in Croatia to deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100526	The next replica is the respected representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100527	Thank you very much. Honorable Secretary of State, the whistler, when he talks to the media, gets fired and a slander suit. It's less of a common practice and the fact is that they themselves have to pay lawyers who represent them in court in all these processes. It's expensive, sources of income no longer have because they got fired. Corruption is everywhere, this week the indictment has been confirmed to former Mayor Puljašić and now you tell me there is an association told by a colleague Mažar who will represent free of charge, but whether there is an association in Požega, in Pleternica, in Vinkovci, in Knin, in Brnaza means it is not territorial in Croatia available to all. In what way will we encourage people if they do not have secured free legal aid, regardless of where they report corruption in Croatia, and it is at all levels and everywhere we all know it well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100528	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Free legal aid is spread throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia that depends on the counties, the number of associations that appear in our competition and the number of associations that have professional qualifications to receive funds for free legal assistance. So some places you mentioned 80% of this has, like, 20% gone, and now I'm saying it by heart. So we take care of this territorial spread of free legal aid. Also, this new law, so no one will be fired because the court will have to act on an urgent duty as a temporary measure to prevent any employer's actions according to the possibilities of the Labour Act. This is where we take special care, and it is a big change compared to the existing law. What will continue to happen in the process? Now that is an assessment may be in the case of a political assembly, in the case of a judicial authority I hope an independent so the procedure will end in that we cannot interfere. I just think that this law has given the tools good for the applicant, for the protection of applicants and for the protection of connected persons, that is, in fact, the purpose of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100529	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100530	Thank you. So, so it doesn't turn out that I don't know the recovery just criticises and that we simply feel that nothing has tried. You may have tried something, but Secretary of State you don't realize that with such institutions, even the best law can't help. If our state's attorneys, if our judges turn their heads on us from our notifiers, there's something we can talk about. And then when you're doing the law and you want to bring that much-needed change into society, then the law has to be ideal, you have to send a message, not that you're from this place talking about it, somebody's got to drive, I don't know what kind of car so the state pays him the costs of a lawyer. We have to do everything to send a message to people, it's worth reporting irregularity in Croatia because this country will hold on to such people, it will do everything to protect them. That must be the message of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100531	Thank you very much. Dear Representative and Chairman of the board, we've talked a lot about this subject, if you were me here, you'd probably say the same thing about free legal aid if I gave you a report that you saw it all and you'd go crazy and maybe you'd say something about it on the corruption prevention board. So, it's not a thing that I'm now pointing my finger at one thing, that you pulled out of context, but well that's an assessment of your political debate. If we're going to say that no one's doing anything like that, I haven't gotten the impression of a fateful power, and we've had a few meetings about this topic turning my eyes on this issue. The judge of an individual who doesn't do his job so we changed the Constitution in 2010, we passed the DSV Act, we're looking for sanctioning, we're looking for strict procedures, we're looking for a reasonable period of settlement of cases, we're looking for a monthly report of what anyone is doing, we're asking the President of the Court to deliver this to the Ministry of Justice. We do a lot of things, but here's what I think if you ever get to decide how to fix it, I think we've done a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100532	The next replica of the esteemed representative Barbara Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100533	Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is commendable that you have also extended to legal persons owned by applicants of irregularities who are actually entering that circle of protection. However, how to justify this expressed possibility by the attorney general who says that he will not actually be able to protect himself in the light of the partial work she represents, so she must protect the individual, not the legal person. So, in that case, how will this intention of yours actually be legally made possible at all? Unfortunately, here I am again pointing out the lex of Ankica Lepej we're talking about today and who actually didn't deserve that name and it's sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100534	Thank you very much, Your Honor. If you followed me well, then in a law currently in force from 2019. There is a provision that the applicant, as is now proposed, is only a natural person. The law of 2019 also states that a person and a legal person are connected. The EU's directive on the protection of the rights of applicant for Union infringements also says that the person connected is a legal person. The Advocate General argues whether a legal person has the fundamental right to seek protection from the Advocate General in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that fundamental human rights as a fundamental right does not have the right to live, the right to do this, the right to, but it has the right to be found as a connected person with a whistle in the sense that in a related relationship, there is any connection that this person finds himself in a situation to get out of the pedal from that company just because someone is that whistler. That's the point of the story. We're looking for a limited right, but the right to access a police attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100535	Followed by a replica of the respected representative Rada Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100536	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I support any law that will protect people who want to make this society better, however, in the premise of our education with Croats that it is not really good for a snitch or a notifier, and certainly we have to do a lot of work in raising young people to reach a certain level and that would be common. The second thing, we have God's law, we have human law, we have Satan's law, and unfortunately today in the world, Satan has taken a lot into his own hands and we must fight it. And the third thing I want to say here is that it's just employers and heads of the institution that you whistle about, and it's not really true. I know people who've seen in their institutions irregularities, they've twisted it all the way. However, thanks to our judiciary And the slow ones they're exposed to, in fact, to that criticism. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100537	Thank you very much, counsel. Here is our goal in this law and in a set of other laws that are related to the protection of applicants of irregularities, to the prevention of corruption, and as an anti-corruption element, we believe that it is one of these laws and this law. It's as good a representative as your life. And we in the judiciary depending on the situation, the times we've changed we've grown up for years no matter what government is in power. Since 2009, we have passed the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests, we have now changed the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, we have passed the Law on Lobbying, the Law on the Protection of Discrimination, and Croatia has, as it has grown into the EU, fulfilled European standards, common European law. I think we've made a big move with this law, and that the people who report the persons who committed the crime will be protected, and also the people who crossed the line of the law will end up where they belong. And that's the point of this whole story and the wider and the rope.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100538	Followed by a replica of the respected advocates Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100539	Thank you very much, Vice President. Secretary of State Salapic, I think it is very important that these laws create solid instruments and a clear framework to protect the applicants of irregularities and to in fact encourage what you yourself have said in a replica that this irregularity is reported immediately, and not that this is happening with a certain distance. And so I would ask you if this law still recognizes the difference between whistles that immediately report irregularities and those who may have been involved in irregularities for years, agree to them and report them only at the moment when new systematicization comes, so it is questionable that their workplace or when a re-election comes for some position they are in, so they are no longer sure if they will get it. Can you tell us if there's a difference?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100540	There's a key thing about this law. So like this, the law applies to everything equally and anyone who reports irregularities has the right to protection under this law. However, if we are to be honest, in any case, the face and appearance of this story should be the applicant of irregularities is the person who will be under revenge, and the employer is some kind of criminal, a thief who will oppress that person not to report it. Like this. We've had cases, this number that I've said, I can't talk about names that employers are being blackmailed, that there's been a demand for promotions in jobs, that certain benefits that don't belong to a professional preparation, and that's all your life. That's where the doctor does his job wrong, when a prison guard smuggles his cell phone into prison, when he does this, this one. That's why it serves the entire criminal justice sphere of courts, investigative bodies to prevent it. You've got everything here and everything. So that's where the media gets caught, the political options don't matter which, grab this one, and we turn out to be the ones who protect corruption and crime because we don't have anything better to do. Well, that's sad for you. It is the truth and the disease of Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100541	Followed by a replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100542	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. Reporting irregularities doesn't understand criticism, because we know that there are a lot of reports that are unfounded but let's not reject the fact that there are a lot of well-founded reports of irregularities. Why do things go slow? Because the ministry has to deal with each other. What do you think if applicants were punished for false reporting, then the services would have time, opportunities and space to deal with real applications and corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100543	Thank you very much, counsel. The truth is that this system is overloaded, investigative bodies and so forth. We, therefore, have provided maximum rights, but in a situation where the court, I point out, the court finds that the employer falsely declared such a person will be penalized or punished depending on what kind of thing it is. You are also aware that before any election cycles of any local elections, any national elections, whether the European elections are the State's Attorney's Office, USKOK covered by various reports from roasting pigs, lambs to thieving, I don't know what. It's God forbid, and they have to do this job because the State's attorney's office is acting on every application. And then someone wonders that the investigation lasts for two, three years. Well, because there are seas out there that have to be reported, and when elections go through, you can throw them in the basket and nobody else. And there's also a catch why people are overloaded, drowning with all kinds of crap where a real investigator wouldn't have five minutes to do anything. But unfortunately, it's also a political campaign.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100544	Followed by a replica of the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100545	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. In fact, there is little mention of an important fact here, which is that, for example, the Republic of Croatia has passed this law, so the first law before this area is regulated, that is, this matter at EU level. So before this directive was adopted, which we are actually now harmonising with, therefore, this final bill of law. I think that clearly indicates the will of both the Ministry of Justice and the administration and this government in the real fight against corruption. Here I think we should mention, we have brought in a strategy to prevent corruption in 2021. Among other things, this bill was one of the legal packages that was highlighted just as an indicator of the fight against corruption in the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, the Law on Lobbying, which was announced in the same way as the Law on Criminal Procedure. And the other thing that I think is a good thing that you mentioned, which is as much to be pointed out as possible. So, with this internal reporting, external disclosure of what you've said is actually there are other institutions that whistles can turn to. Thus, this law does not restrict their right, so which channels they will actually address in the fight against, that is, when they want to point to an irregularity, action, or failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100546	Thank you very much. Your Honor, here's what you've said to a whole series of things we've done together, both this government and the Department of Justice and Administration. So it's a whole set of laws relating to what's on the roof, which is the protection of the state, the fight against corruption and the punishment of persons who have crossed the boundaries of legal conduct either in the area of the offence, or in the sphere of criminality, or in the sphere of revenge against a person who has purposely discovered a certain irregularity within the employer. Because the truth is that we've passed the law before, it's true that this law of legal void we've corrected there have been quite difficult meetings with the representatives of the European Commission. So it's not just a directive to implement in the legal system of Croatia, so we don't care. We had to secure the bodies there, secure the protection, secure the funds, with this emotional help, so not everyone can answer the whistle on the phone. So, in that service, we have to have people who are professional, competent, who know what they're going to tell a man. So the difference is that emotional aid, psychosocial assistance, financial assistance, etc. We'll follow it, no one says we won't change the system or the body if it turns out it's too much that we have to act. So, We're not... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100547	The next replica is the respected representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100548	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, first of all, I thank you for respecting my remarks when you first read about public reporting irregularities and removing Article 26, paragraph 3, as unnecessary. The following is what I would ask regarding the internal reporting of irregularities currently in Article 19(5) where you have prescribed that municipalities may share resources regarding the reception of applications and the conduct of the procedure. Since we know that the resources of the municipalities are very, very small, very small in which this one is going to be, it is imagined that they will implement it. I think it might be good to think that the county's doing this procedure for them, but here's what I'm wondering is how it's supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100549	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100550	Thank you very much, counsel. The truth is that there could possibly be a problem, so we're still considering it, not all municipalities are the same size, not the same number of people inside as employers... When there are more than 50 employees, they must comply with these rules. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the implementing acts we're going to bring in, the rules, we're going to see how we're going to solve it. If there's a problem, of course, we'll react. So now our goal is to bring this back to life. It will be in some municipalities of the problem, but we believe that in these smaller environments and fewer such situations where the need for the application of this law will arise, given that there are other elements that are wider than this law, which are what falls within the sphere of the potential need for other investigative bodies if such irregularity occurs. And we are witnesses of the times in which we live that it is daily, there is everything and everything, so here we follow to keep this law within the scope of the whistler's jurisdiction, or the intelligence of this matter, and we will see with these implementing acts that we need to bring about how any problems on the ground will be solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100551	Next replica honoured representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100552	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, there have been speeches in the last debate, and also now on the need for psychosocial assistance, and here we all agreed that it is necessary that, as the right and the possibility of protecting applicants, it is possible to enable, although in this present bill does not stand, you said that an amendment is envisaged in this regard. So my question is, so it's going to be used by an already existing institute at the Justice Department like I did, as I realized which psychosocial aid they use both victims of violence and others. Therefore, whether this amendment or other additional regulation will now regulate the right to psychosocial assistance, so whether it will be part of a court procedure or the applicant will have to do so through some institutes to seek the exercise of that right.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100553	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100554	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As for this department at the Ministry of Justice, which is a support to victims and witnesses and family violence, therefore, it is an emotional aid and assistance of a legal professional service that applies only to persons who voluntarily and willingly apply to it. So it will be in this case if the applicant of irregularities exists, has a certain need to consult with professional people who are working on this, and we will apply the same rules as the rules on this one. You know, you worked in this sector about domestic violence and problems here in the social service that there was everything and everything, so we're just going to look at it as a matter of protecting family, protecting people who have a special need. If we feel that psychological help is needed to be a fear of revenge and so on, it is the people who will provide professional help. If the need continues, they will be referred to other services where certain measures will also be taken. We'll settle this by means of implementing acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100555	The next replica of the respected representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100556	Your Honor, Secretary of State, you said this law is a step forward in protecting applicants of irregularities, so-called. The whistle. But let's be honest, would this step forward be if the EU hadn't told us that we had to, that we had to comply with the directive? No, you wouldn't. Why wouldn't he? Because in order to protect whistles, we must show a clear fight and a clear will to fight corruption. This government, unfortunately, is in no condition to do so. She not only does not fight corruption but she generates it. And as long as we don't send a very clear message that those who do wrong will be punished and foretold, and those who report these irregularities will be protected there is no front for us. So far, we see that actually those who report irregularities are those who are chicanated, isolated, fired, unprotected and once again humiliated. And that's my view of it, you can either agree with it or not, but that's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100557	Thank you very much, Your Honor, as you disagree with me, I don't agree with you either. So, I don't know if you're familiar with all 58 cases of applicant irregularities that are currently current with the attorney general. I think your attitude is generated primarily in that you're not sitting on this side but on that side. There are also a lot of your former ministers and fellow lawyers who have discussed this issue a little bit and who feel that this is a step forward with certain legal shortcomings that we need to fix. As long as we go like that, which is the government in power, which is a bunch of lowlifes to you probably in power, we won't do anything. I believe, I tell you honestly that we have worked hard on this, that it is not a matter of the European Commission, we have delegated this law because we have assessed it, so the truth is we passed the law in 2019, we started to make our changes before the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. That's true. We delegated him when we realized that it would be good for him to enter the national plan as a set of anti-corruption measures to get the funds to invest in the Attorney General's Office and on the protection of persons seeking psychosocial help, that's your only truth. And now that you come to power, you clean it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100558	Thanks to the secretary of state, we've exhausted all the replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not then, I open the debate, the first to debate was reported by the Club of Representatives of the Mosta and on their behalf the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100559	Thank you. For a country in which corruption and crime are minor or larger than that, the availability of public goods for private purposes and any anomalies has become everyday, for a country in which it is normal for ministers or former ministers to be investigated or in prison, and that the government and the prime minister still do not just step down, but also do their research and give instructions to the DORH how to work became. For a country in which the former prime ministers swallow prison sentences, and former potato ministers, for a country like the Croatian Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity will probably represent just another clutch in the archives of the HS session or one media fus note that most of the consumers in our media area will not notice at all. And in reality, the public media policy treatment of this topic must have a first-rate significance in Croatia because the relationship of a country to whistlers represents a measure in which there is a political will to deal with corruption. Conceptional application of this law in practice i.e. Data on the number of cases of reporting irregularities and their outcomes will show that Croatian society and institutions really refer to corruption, whether corruption is tolerated and encouraged or fought against corruption. We are most often approached in public by cases of reporting irregularities that this final bill calls public disclosure. If you analyse these situations, it is most often a matter of potential irregularities in public institutions or in private systems that reveal irregularities associated with a public or political powerful person. Also, if you analyse the good part of the cases in which whistles have decided to publicly expose irregularities, we can agree that in most of these cases the system in which irregularities are reported from the ground and irreparably corrupt. Such an internal reporting system reacts to threats or blackmails against the applicant of irregularities, such a corrupt system resorts to methods of isolateing the applicant of irregularities from the rest of the system for damage control. If these methods fail, such corrupt systems continue with other chicane methods, which are the most often aimed at causing fear of loss of existence in the applicant of irregularities or simply taking away its existence. These are the cases that we most often see in Croatia, and the modus operands of these from the foundations of the corrupt systems that I have described can be sublimed into one single sentence that I mentioned during the break, and that is the one which is publicly sent from this place here to one applicant of irregularities, but also to all other applicants of irregularities, and it says such concepts do not lead to anything. I believe, and I also said in my statement that most of the public knows the author of this people's wisdom, this is Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who said that sentence here in the council from the highest place and business capital and a very clear message to all potential whistlers, of no use to your whistle. But instead of Plenkovic and his government, I would still like to talk about this law and its key properties. I'd like to touch one important segment of this law where I see the most potential holes, which we already need to shut down. It's about judicial protection. the specific measures prescribed by this law, in which the courts, in ideal circumstances, were to decide within short periods of time or in an emergency procedure, whatever that means. It is difficult from this pay phone to accept the thesis of this law that our courts who are objectively too often slow at once and without any incentive will address requests for the protection of applicants of irregularities within the prescribed legal time limits of eight days or in some urgent procedure. As an example, I will give you a case of an irregularity applicant who long reported an irregularity in a city facility in the City of Zagreb. The treatment that he had experienced after he had publicly stepped up was expected, and the peak of his sycamore towards him happened when he was fired in that institution and all of this, as most often happens with an explanation that he damaged his public appearance by means of an institution in which he exposed potential irregularities. After a exhausting legal battle in which he apparently completely exhausted the way of legal protection in regular courts, he finally received a certain satisfaction at the constitutional court that found he had the right to publicly disclose information on irregularities. The only problem in the whole story is that the constitutional court's decision came ten years after public disclosure of irregularities that got him fired at his post. In this context, from the experience of this and other whistles, we can see clearly how the judicial protection of whistles often comes too late. Therefore, in order to be able to monitor the court in this particular area and protect the applicants of irregularities, it is necessary to build a system of reporting in which courts will keep records of all court cases to be reported by the Ministry of Justice and Administration, and then by the Advocate General, who regularly reports to HS in his work. So, I think this is crucial. And also what I mentioned about secondary legal protection and its payment from the state budget is that the state stands behind the applicant irregularities independently of the property censorship because it is a message to all those who report irregularities is a minimum that this law should respect. And in the end, the law isn't good enough, but the best law can't protect the applicants of irregularities if our institutions don't work, and that's what I said. If our attorney general or our chief attorney if our state attorneys are at lower levels, if our judges are turning our heads from the applicant's irregularities, if we don't know we have a situation here I mentioned Mr. Sabljak that for almost four years the official court that needs to decide on his status within three or four months, I think it's so prescribed by law that the law violates the law and that it lasts almost four years. That's inadmissible. And only rarely brave people like in Croatia like Sabelak and our other applicants will agree to be persecuted, that their existence is threatened, that here they cannot function normally for many years so that there are those who have exposed some kind of corruption or irregularities in work, illegality in work or public institutions or public enterprises, etc. So, I was talking about what people call me and then they give me documents on coffee, they're afraid to send an email, they're afraid to say something over the phone so they don't get hurt. This is a situation where applicants of irregularities are located in the Republic of Croatia. And we won't be able to deal with corruption if we don't protect whistles much more strongly, but if we don't do one complete review of all procedures, it will happen soon after we take responsibility for Croatia. Yes, yes, laugh, you fellow Boric, and you will come to the wallpaper, and you will come to the wallpaper, and everything that has been done will be enlightened. We'll light everything up to our colleague, Boric. So I know it hurts you and this sentence of mine, but no one's going to run away from their own responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100560	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the respected representative of Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100561	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Reporters of irregularities or what we call them colloquial whistles are topics we can't talk about, and at the same time we're not talking about corruption because whistles are just one of the main pillars of the fight against corruption. And we often hear here in Croatia that in Croatia zero tolerance for corruption, everything rings in public space of ruthless determination in the fight against corruption, and yet every whistle has been fired, every single one. None of them are protected by any institution, and then associations are established, judicial proceedings are conducted, all of this takes too long, and the fundamental question is what these people live on as these endless trials take place in front of the judiciary, which is also often part of this corrupt octopus. I'm just going to remind you of recent cases at the County Court in Osijek, it's not nice to watch judges take them to a prison of investigation. We recently talked about the bankruptcy mafia, about the prevention of bankruptcy managers and corrupt judges, and that's the part that went public. So we expect the judiciary to be like this with all the problems it has, to protect whistles, and in fact they're the ones working in the public interest, and why in a country where zero tolerance to corruption is supposed to protect whistles, from who and why. Obviously the words are what's on the declarative level one thing, they're about some kind of wish, the desired state, and reality is something else entirely. Just look at what's been reported to Attorney General 2020. And it'll all be clear. The new applications were 32, and only five of them were for non-state bodies, 10 were for state bodies, 7 were for public services, 5 were for local and regional (regional) self-government units, 3 were for public authorities, 2 were for legal entities whose founder or unit of local self-government had separate or shared majority ownership, only 5 were for employers in the economy and crafts. We could say cadiya's suing you, cadiya's judging you, that's what it looks like. And it's clear from this why whistles need to be provided with protection. But the fundamental question on which I think we still haven't received the answer is whether this law that is before us will provide whistles with that necessary protection. We can't say there isn't any movement, but somehow they're microscopic, but we're already used to the fact that from this ministry, we're about as much of a change in Mic by Mic, but now we're in a better category than nothing. If all the whistles who went public for the award were fired and charges for slander, etc., then the citizens are sent a clear message of silence and do not wave, close your eyes a little bit, a little bit, and often on both eyes. And then we have to ask ourselves, who is essentially destroying the institutions of this country, those who call those involved in malfeasance, or those who participate in them, and who is this country's feta-by-feta-feta-determining state? And who is to blame that 97% of citizens believe corruption is widespread and endangers the rule of law, destroys trust in institutions and society as a whole. In all the studies, they have cited the judiciary, health care, local and county authorities as those of the public sector institutions where corruption is the most widespread. And if I'm not mistaken, it's exactly these three areas where we call for these reforms and we've been waiting for them for too long, but there's no movement. The reform of the judiciary, health care, public administration, territorial reconstruction are key elements of the fight against corruption. There is no such thing and how things stand won't even be in the near future, if this government hasn't taken a bite in that sour apple in the first two years' time, probably not in the last two years. If the anti-corruption commitment were to be sincere and unequivocal, and not just declarative, then we would not be here today to discuss the protection of whistles because it would not be necessary. When it was recently discovered that securities trading was by CNB employees, the first question was how did journalists get that information, which is privileged information, giving away that information is a criminal offence. So it immediately resisted the whistler and accused him of committing a crime. Those were the words of the most responsible people in the CNB. Are these the words that people who are at the highest functions in the state, who have zero tolerance to corruption? It seems to me that they didn't, and this week we find out that the HANFE employee who was investigating the whole case was also trading securities, so he left HANFU at his request. One of the preventive bodies that should be combating corruption is the Tax Administration. In the last five years, only 35 million kunas of property tax have been charged that could not be proven to be of origin. So only 35 million, it seems that in Croatia everyone acquired all the legal, legal and paid all the taxes. The property of individual management presidents of public companies is only found out when they are brought in, then apartments and bags of money filled with nothing like mushrooms after the rain. If a tax was charged on all non-original assets and cannot be proven of origin then VAT in this country could be lower, but so far it is not an option. And when are we really going to believe that corruption is zero tolerance in Croatia? When corruption and corruption-related crimes are processed and penalties are appropriate to the severity of the acts committed. When whistles are truly protected and when they finally begin to strengthen independent bodies to fight corruption. Without political will, that won't be possible. Article 3 of this Act is crystal clear in this context and aims to protect whistles effectively by providing them with reliable ways of reporting irregularities. How Article 9 of this Act will be implemented where it is a bit of a mystery, for example The whistles of Maja Djerek, we see that there are also diphtherias, accusations and media drag through the mud. The internal reporting of an irregularity of a confidential person, prescribed deadlines all sound really good, but what's interesting is Article 20(1), which says that the employer is obliged to protect the whistler from revenge, and most often it is the employer who avenges the whistler by firing him. How it's going to work in practice and it's another little mystery of this law. We can also expect an increase in the application of the attorney general, so we will see how much this office will actually have the capacity to process and provide adequate legal assistance to all whistles. Article 26 sets certain restrictions on public disclosure, but we also need to know and be aware that until the affairs come into the media nothing happens. Absolutely nothing, evidence and ultimately we don't really know what's going on with these procedures. What happens to a JANAF affair or an affair in which the former director of HRT is nothing more than a carryer of bags in which there is a bribe? These processes last indefinitely, and what happens to them will probably not be known for a few years. And in the end, I'm just going to look back at the amount of fines, and that's what was said in the first reading. I think it should nevertheless take note of the comments that the level of penalties should be linked to the level of business income, because these penalties prescribed are too small for companies that are in the category of medium and large enterprises, and perhaps too large for those which are categories of micro and small, and perhaps even consider adjusting these penalties to the level of business income and profit achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100562	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, the respected representative of Darko Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100563	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Corruption has existed since there was power, and corruption is unfortunately both an unwanted consequence of power and is in some way derived from the human nature of an individual. In view of the fact that the state functions on behalf of the State are carried out by individuals and their abuses to society, as well as by other individuals and their rights, and in particular the right to good use, which is largely threatened by corrupt actions. The mechanisms for preventing corruption have always been the subject of legal regulation, and it is implemented by this law. The new Whistle Act is a step forward in relation to the existing law, but it is necessary to further develop certain articles in order to protect and encourage applicants of irregularities as effectively as possible. This bill improves the existing legal framework, and in this area, that reporting irregularities and infringements of legal rules can also be achieved without violence against a person pointing to irregularities. Such action is possible only if there is freedom of expression, but also the rights of whistles not to suffer revenge, and judicial mechanisms to protect the rights of those persons. People are often afraid to express their opinion because of fear of reaction and sanctions from their immediate surroundings. This law certainly requires further improvement which has been omitted because of the abuse of the employer in the appointment of a trusted person because it often happens that the employer appoints a trusted person from a circle of close persons of government. The freshest example is in Zagreb Holding, so in this respect we propose to increase the number of employees who propose a confidential person. It is also necessary to extend the circle of operators to report irregularities both internal and external, thereby further facilitating the reporting of irregularities and the protection of applicants of irregularities. It is also necessary to leave out any financial repression against the applicants of irregularities that report and publicly disclose information if it is not true because the notifier directly cannot fully determine the truthfulness of the information, and acts in this regard in the best interest and points to the prevention of possible damage to the whole society. The proposed article, which provides for sanctioning, is depreciating for the applicant of irregularities because the application already exposes the possible repression of the employer and subsequently endangers its existence. In all, however, HSLS assesses this bill as positive in view of several of its principles, and first of all, it transfers to Croatian law the European legal standard for the protection of whistles that currently, at present, is the highest such standard in legal denials at the world level. Second, the legal and social position of whistlers as an individual who has rarely been in a subordinate position compared to individuals or organisations in his immediate working environment is strengthened. In this sense, this bill further increases the space of equality and cuts the chance that we, as liberals, always unreservedly support. As the third strengthening of the legal position and the protection of whistles, one more in a series of mechanisms available to combat corruption is strengthened, which, unless weaker institutions are contained, is a deep cause and inequality in society. As a fourth of this bill, the Fund of Demographic Values is enriched, which is assessed particularly important in view of Croatia's social political transition, whose negative features are no doubt the spread of perception, lawlessness and culture of opportunism of popular learning. This bill seeks to combat corruption at the very micro-level, the level of individuals whose position is further strengthened in relation to corrupt actions that gnaw citizens' confidence in institutions and lead to distortions of values and social virtues without which there is no mutual trust and cooperation between members of society, and consequently neither effective nor productive communities. However, such positive practices, these political and cultural traditions cannot be established by law overnight, they are established only by their continued practice over a long time, but we consider this bill a very positive initial step in establishing an appropriate institutional framework for the development of anti-corruption culture in Croatia. In this regard, we also consider in particular a positive legislative plan which is explicitly set out in this bill, which concerns the continued implementation of educational activities related to the application of this law under the new anti-corruption strategy for the '21st period. By the '30s. in order to strengthen the judicial protection of whistles, including the implementation of measures to improve the coordination of bodies responsible for the handling of content, reporting of irregularities, and to improve the digital way of reporting to the authority responsible for external reporting. As liberals, we find it particularly important that the legislator has clearly defined himself and used his powers as an intended article. 2nd century. 2nd century. 2nd century. 2nd century. 2nd century. 2nd century. 2nd century. 2nd century. 2nd century. 2nd century. Directive 2019/1937 on the protection of persons who declare infringements of the rights of the Union to be transposed by this Regulation, which provides for the possibility that, within the framework of national law, each Member State may extend protection in respect of areas or actions which are not explicitly listed in that Directive. But corruption is always the so-called national policy. Our own courtyard in which we always decide on our own, and it is an area in which we always do, and unfortunately, especially in Croatia, there is always room for action and correction plans. In this respect, it is also important to take into account the specific Croatian political and social opportunities that require further extension of the scope of whistle protection compared to the one provided for in European legislation. Without the proper work of the judicial authorities and the judiciary, there is no protection of the rights provided for by this law, as well as political ideas relating to the role of freedom in a successful liberal democratic society. Therefore, in addition to the unequivocal support of this bill, we warn that, without improving the work of the judiciary, it will rarely remain a dead letter on paper whose sole guarantee of the protection of the judiciary that protects against abuse and the consequent and universal erosion of trust in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100564	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Romana Nikolic in front of the Social Democrats' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100565	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. We have been witnessing for months that the country is in ruins because of this corrupt government, that the situation of corruption is unbearable, catastrophic. Because of corruption, mistrust in institutions, administrative inefficiencies, because of the lack of reform, people live badly, they leave our country. The prime minister often points out that the government is fighting corruption and that the fight against corruption is extremely important. And today we have the agenda so-called. The bill on whistles, the second reading which is one of the most significant anti-corruption mechanisms, therefore it is necessary for the law to be applicable, fast and effective but not, is not at least for applicants of irregularities so that the fight against corruption by the ruling ones remains only in words but not in deeds. The amendment of this law is only cosmetic without and little will to help applicants of irregularities who, after having reported work irregularities, have lost their jobs, are exposed to mobbing, are Stigmatized, labour disputes have been going on for years. They are also subject to slander charges, although the EU provision requires that whistles should not be sued for slander unless they publicly discuss irregularities, this law is not foreseen. The general practice of our amendments to the laws in this House is a copy of the provisions of the EU directive, but this is exactly the provision that would significantly help applicants to perhaps encourage many to speak publicly, strengthen the position of whistlers, not put in place. In relation to the proposal for a law on the protection of applicants of irregularities as proposed for first reading, only two proposals of the profession, i.e. the association, have been adopted. As a result, the new Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity would not remain solely on cosmetic amendments compared to the current Social Democrats Act so far, it proposed a series of amendments. A narrow circle of bodies that can report irregularities which in practice led to the abuse by employers, and reports that have not been submitted to the specifically mentioned authorities for reporting irregularities resulted in revenge against the applicants of irregularities and, teaching this inadequate judicial protection. The abuse of the appointment of a confidential person by an employer in such a way that in most cases the names of persons close to the administration, authorised persons to represent the employer 20% of employees in the employer are very often controlled by the employer himself. The fact that the application could be submitted directly to the competent authority for the external reporting of irregularities only in exceptional cases and, consequently, possible abuses by employers who refused to report irregularities as unfounded, and also employers, after reporting irregularities in the cancellation, indicate some breach of the labour obligation only to cover up the motive of cancellation. An excessive period for resolution by the competent authority for the external reporting of irregularities which may cause irreparable damage to the applicant. Due to a very small number of cases brought in order to protect applicants of irregularities, and to the fact that at least one first-degree verdict has been reached in whistle protection proceedings, the lack of case law. Publicly, potential applicants are not sufficiently familiar with the system of protection of applicants of irregularities and the effectiveness of the law so far in force. Also, as the directive in question has been in force for a long time, and this bill shows that there will be no same protected applicants of irregularities under these two laws. Therefore, the legislator is late for harmonisation, the adoption of a law with which the applicants of irregularities under the current law have been placed in a more unfavourable position. The aim of the law should be to prevent revenge against applicants of irregularities, not that the law acts repressively, only when revenge occurs. A social consensus is needed. As the reporting of irregularities is not only necessary, it is also desirable to strengthen the whistler. It is said daily that fighting corruption is extremely important. This law is one of the most important anti-corruption mechanisms, so the law needs to be applicable, fast and effective. What the Social Democrats Club also proposes, and to take into account, and not covered by the law, remains also open. The question to protect the applicant of irregularities after all has been established and proven, and irregularities corrected, removed. Is it worth the time protection until misery? What if it is established that there are no irregularities whether or not the protection of applicants of irregularities is valid? What is the general deadline for protection after the completion of the process? We believe that protection must be worth a longer period of time. The proposal for a new article also needs to be set up by the Institute for the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, which would in some way employ whistles to return to their work and pay them a monthly fee without an asset price. In fact, it's often been fired for hidden behavior where an employee doesn't have legal and financial support from the Bureau, so we think this is necessary. It is also necessary to consider the modes of free secondary legal assistance for whistles in cooperation with institutions dealing with them, and to allow for the extension of primary legal assistance. The Social Democrats Club held a press conference in Kutina on March 29th in a city where the whole story actually began when Adriana Cvrtila reported her superiors last year for work irregularities and thus became a symbol of fighting corruption. In Kutina and now in this House, we invite both the Government and all other representatives from both the ruling and opposition clubs to accept our amendments, which we have in collaboration with legal professionals and with all those who have really stood up against corruption in our workplace, to propose amendments because this will give an appropriate legislative framework for all these cases, and by raising hands for these amendments to prove that we are indeed fighting corruption. The applicants also want to point out irregularities and regrets about everything that happens to them afterwards. In this way, by looking at examples, many of them find it difficult to choose corruption in their environment. So now we have a chance to change that.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100566	Thank you very much. It is now Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic's turn in front of the club of representatives of the CENTR and GLAS because by the time she clears up, I need to say one thing. There are all 14 of us here in Parliament, 11 of them women and 3 men who are contrary to the share of sex in the Parliament. And my dear Davorko, we didn't lose the battle, we lost the war. ... And there's another one? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Thank you, General. Here you go. He needed the general to fix the average.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100567	Well, now that we're going on this informally, then I'm going to get on the line, and I'm going to figure out the fact that we have more judges than judges, that we and the State's Attorney's office have more women than men, and since this is an anti-corruption law, then it's appropriate to discuss it more advocates than advocates. Maybe when we talk about justice and the fight against corruption, women are a little more courageous. But to go to the very essence of what I said in the introduction, or when I asked for a break, it's not a law on the protection of whistles, not even that, it's called the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity. And when we look at what its structure is, what its structure is, then it's clear why we're already in the name, and that old Latin saying nomen est omens, we completely miss the point and purpose. It is said that this law introduces a system for easier, safer and accessible reporting. Well, that was never a problem. The whistlers had the possibility of reporting before, and this application did not endanger them in itself, endangering them from what was happening after it. This law should be devoted, and it is not, so now we have a concept on which the EU insists on the gravity of which you first address when you proudly apply to what we call Commissioners, trusted persons, would say people without a name, last name and any serious authority. In fact, I believe that in some countries such a concept may work, but in Croatia it certainly does not. We generally report, if they apply, those who decide to do so with serious corruption. They do not work at lower levels in the structure than members of the administration, ministers, so the bearers of those difficult, big decisions. It doesn't make sense that in any system, let's talk about some company, let's talk about state property, let's talk about Maya Jerek. Therefore, it is not logical that state property will have its confidential person appointed by the administration, completely irrelevant to who suggested it and that after that, Maja Djerek, as an employee of state property, submits an application to that trusted person in this confidential person and does not have the authority to examine the content and the application and its resolution, already has one single task to forward the application. So we just added one step. Or Maya Djerek can decide to file her application with a police attorney who will do the same more or less. This application shall be recorded and forwarded further to someone for competent treatment. So, what could have been done directly before, is now done over a few watering mechanisms. It's not mine, it's yours, now get your application and get rid of it, and we're all gonna put it together a couple of times in a couple of records. For me, this is the whistle-listing law. Because what is said to protect the right to protection as defined cannot in itself be achieved by any automation. Once again, it can only be achieved in a pending court procedure. And in order to succeed in this duration, the whistler or applicant of irregularity must have adequate professional, professional, legal assistance that costs as much as prescribed by the Croatian Bar of Law. And now you imagine a Maya Derek against whom state property can run countless ways or Adriana Cvrtilo who is in the same situation. So they reported an irregularity in the public company they worked in, one is state, the other is city. They've both lost their income, they're both without existence, they both have a whole series of court proceedings that they have to finance themselves, and in this, the state-owned company and the municipal city company pays their lawyers, and we all pay them to fight those who are the applicants of corruption. So such a law is actually more of a distraction than it benefits. Now, not getting into the fact that we have to transpose our national legislation in order to satisfy the EU directive does not mean that we cannot add something and upgrade something ourselves. I announce in advance that I will support and vote in favour of all the opposition amendments, as well as this fund on the protection of applicants of irregularities regardless of what I actually have another and different idea. It's my idea that since we already have the attorney general as the body responsible for implementing this law that we give her the authority to establish on her own on the basis of the reported or public disclosure of irregularities that someone is a whistler. So, to give him whistle status and give him the provisions of this law that say something about temporary measures, that the fact that someone has obtained whistle status because, as such, the attorney general may, in a court procedure within 8 days, receive a provisional measure. And the temporary measure is already in that content is similar to the situation in each case. So what do we get? We would get a very interesting situation which, among other things, relates to the dispute over the retroactive application of this law. What exactly am I talking about? That was a big, big problem during the first reading, one of the ones the whistlers warned the most about. So, if you take a good look at the transitional and final provisions, this law shall take effect from 8 days from, 8 days from the day of publication, as usual. At that moment, the old law ceases to apply, which is also common, and all those procedures that have been initiated under the old law will be completed according to the provisions of that old one. Now I'm asking a bit of a provocative question. Which will be because that's what the new whistlers are counting on right now. Many of them are waiting for the new law to come into force, the law to come into force as more favourable allegedly, and then it will file its application. I'm not sure how our judicial system will treat them because I've seen all kinds of interpretations. If we are known for something as a state, we are known for our unequal legal practice. Hypothetically, what could happen? It may be that a body says so well you've been making irregularities, is that the new law has come into force, but you're reporting something that happened before the law came into force, so you're actually entitled to protection under that law doesn't even belong. This will remove HDZ theoretically all possible potential whistles and reporting irregularities from the scene because at some point it will realize that it is no longer protecting them. Perhaps for corrupt actions that will just be learned or that will just happen in the future. Now in order to avoid all this together and to make a quality step, I think we should take a concept by which someone whistles on the basis of the fact that they reported something. So, if you filed a non-essential application when in 2001, 2005, any year if there was no statute of limitations, then there's no point, so you're a de facto whistler, you're a whistler based on the fact that you've made public disclosure or reported something independent when, like some Homeland War defender on the basis of the fact that he was involved in the war and that he defended the state, and all the laws that recognise the status of defenders and the rights that come out of it all know that, when they bring it? They were brought after the war. Well, we've changed these laws and recognised people's status for what happened 20 years ago, and don't tell me now that we can't protect whistles that pointed to something two or three years ago, it's just a matter of political will. And it's clear to me that the HDZ doesn't have you, but it's not true that there are no very simple and very practical solutions. That's why I said three basic things. First, a whistler based on what you've done, and the law will give you that, let's let the attorney general read the application, read the public disclosure, say you're a whistler, put you on the record, when I give you confirmation that you're a whistler, go to court with that, and within eight days, get your interim measure. Then we won't need a whistle-protection fund because a man will have his own income, and at the same time, the attorney general has to have the authority to grant defenses or represent lawyers by official means. responsibilities on the burden of the budget of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] It's the only thing that's public. interest, everything else is a mere facade. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100568	Ms. Katarina Peović is the club of representatives of HSS and RF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100569	Good afternoon, everyone. There is certainly much to be said here in the debate, but I would like to pay attention and put emphasis on a specific aspect of the whistle concept, but first of all, I would like to say that what was heard here in the debate really concerns us and actually brings us into the situation, and I have listened carefully to the presentations of HDZ representatives and MPs are putting us in a position to actually ask ourselves about the motives of this law and what was wanted to do here. What you could hear in the debate, I believe that you heard it too, is that it's about whistles that have suspicious motives, which report when there's a systematization of jobs being announced, so they want to prevent their resignation, there are some people who have even mentioned some of the Satanic laws, I have to admit what it's all about, but it's obvious that there's something really bad on the side of those whistles that are reporting something and that we should pay attention, here's the Secretary of State said that there's everything and everything, that people are getting caught for it, the media is getting caught for it, and we can't prove why someone reported it, what his motives are. And I am very pleased that such a debate has taken place because of a specific moment that is being shown here, which is a complete misunderstanding of the relationship between the forces between the applicants and the one which he reports and that is the specificity of this law, which is the specificity of many laws and many situations in Croatia, and I will pay attention to the work aspect which is extremely important here. Is that what happens to the one who reports it? He loses his job, it's a key thing that can happen to anyone who reports, either threatens to fire him or he loses his job and then retrograde has to prove what his motives are, whether he had something against, whether he had hidden motives, why he reported irregularities, why he kept silent before it was as if there was no fundamental question whether there was an irregularity or not. The motives of the applicant are completely irrelevant. And that's why I'm very pleased to say, in fact, that this has been shown in this debate because it will also be shown in the debates on laws that are related to labour legislation because here it is completely ignored that the worker is the weaker party to that contractual obligation. It is the worker who should be protected and it is obvious that it is not clear to the legislator as he writes the labour law. It appears to him that there are two equal units that should have equal and equally strong legal protection mechanisms. No, he's the one who's weaker and needs to be protected. And in this situation of associations means whistles we've just received a warning that in these amendments of the law not enough attention has been paid. Of course, there was insufficient attention when we heard in the opening statements all the motives of these people reporting. However, I said that it would concentrate on labour law although there are, of course, other dimensions of this law abuse of the appointment of a confidential person by the employer, too long a deadline for the resolution by the competent authority for external reporting irregularities, the fact that applications can be submitted directly to the competent authority for external reporting irregularities only in exceptional cases, and therefore it is possible to abuse, we have by the employer who either refused to report irregularities as unfounded or what is now coming after reporting irregularities fired, and so you have in Bauhaus workers who reported themselves to be a union commissioner, who warned that workers should, in the 4 hours of the afternoon, go to the house after they had left the house, and had to leave for the second time at the time. And that's the situation that workers have on a daily basis. So, in any case, instead of this skepticism and this social Darwinism that we've got on this side, we need to believe the one who reports apriors as we should believe the victim who reports violence, and then we need to look at what it's about, or should get into the measure of things, but it's primarily to protect the one who reports it and we haven't got it here, and we've got insight into what the opinion means and the legislator himself to those who report it. So you have a law on the work of an art. 134. means protecting the dignity of workers, but it is mainly about what is the title of this membership, meaning the dignity of workers, there is not enough development to mean the subject of reporting when means the worker is applying to protect the public good, but that is what we find very often regardless of this social Darwinist description of whistlers as those who look at our own benefit we find the opposite examples in practice. We find examples of people who report past their personal benefits that actually risk their jobs and their lives regardless of what brings them absolutely no benefit, people who leave at 4 o'clock from work, this is the brave worker who ended up without a job eventually never solving his dispute with the legislator. So what should be done is to protect workers as a weaker link in this respect. Except for the very dimension of working legislation that I say he is partially touching the Law on the work of it, but not in that dimension, which is understandable. Of course, attention should also be paid to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms or freedom of speech, which means that the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and set as a framework and this law, but still here somewhere, and even in legal explanations, we can find one dangerous question again whether the socially conditioned doubt about what the worker has at all to say, what is not to say is that often, with specific rules, you have strict rules in certain institutions to prevent workers, and so on in colleges what I witness because in my university, the rules of law forbid people to go public in the media with certain scandals, with certain stories about the protection of public good. So we've had situations when teachers go public and try to warn about harmful contracts between their institution and some private, some private college or some other college that they're then being accused because they practically gave away a contractual secret or agreements that are secret and that's where we see the public institution being treated as a corporation. Even in corporations there shouldn't be, protecting a corporation from workers who need to go to the media and say something about something that's public good, something that should be protected, let alone in colleges, but here I am interested and perhaps the Secretary of State can answer me if they have a final exposure. I'm interested in when institutions mean they have their own rules on strict procedures that prohibit workers from speaking in the media about some aspects of the business of an institution that is a public institution, as it is viewed in relation to this law, whether this strict regulation will have a priority on whether or not we're going to explain it, I don't think that because the law is stronger, it has a stronger weight, but then the public administration should also be given a type of warning that they don't put such things in their own, in their rules on tighter procedures because just as it is said, and even in this interpretation of the law, the worker should have the obligation to report something if he thinks that the public good is damaged. So it's our obligation to report what's public good and what's good for all of us, so I think it's exactly the opposite if those who don't report it, who don't need to say that something's bad for all of us, are they supposed to be discredited, not vice versa.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100570	- Mrs. Crescent. Mr. Jaksic, ma'am. Vupra, Jakša Antolic Vupra will speak for the Club of Representatives, Mr. Mr. Jaksic Antoliæ Vupora will speak [[Step from the bench: Mr. Jaksic]] Excuse me. [[Clip intrusion: Mr. Jaksic and Antoliæ Vupra]] With all that, the question was about sex, so I got a little confused. [[/Clip intrusion: All right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100571	Thank you, Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, then, my colleague Vupora and I need to share what we want to discuss, so I'm going from the female corner, the male to be on the lookout for this announcement. We're just kidding. [[- Yeah, yeah, yeah.]] So, what we must stress on behalf of the SDP Club is that it is a great pity that this whole package of anti-corruption laws that we all believe should bring at least small shifts in the perception of corruption in the Republic of Croatia because we know how bad and weak we stand and how many citizens believe in our institutions, we debate and then we bring into the midst of major corruption affairs, some of them have been going on for a year, two of them starting with the Romans, and now we don't list JANAF and everything else along with the one that comes and this law when we have a debate on government reconstruction in a way that first we have to determine which of the ministers is under investigation, who isn't under investigation. And I'm sure in all that roundup when we go out with our debate because now we're fighting corruption every normal one will be asking a question that you paint, what you do, what you're going to do because you're running about laws, and actually the practice of everyday public shows something quite different. What we would certainly like to highlight in this debate today is that we should also admit that so far the whistles and whistles in Croatia have passed, starting with Mrs. Lepoj, Mrs. Balenović, and up to relatively fresh examples that we have in the case of Kutina with Mrs. Cvrtilo, and then something that has now appeared after 10, 12, 13 years of trial with Mr. Klaric who at least received some satisfaction and with Mr. Osmanovic who unfortunately will never get a satisfaction and, of course, everyone is asking himself the question of what we are now so dramatic and famously going to do to get a different and better status and that indeed those whistles would contribute to having a more adequate and powerful fight against corruption that clearly exists in this country at all levels. What we would certainly like to add is that we are mildly disappointed because we supported the first reading of this law with the announcement that we will closely monitor what is to be accepted from some opposition proposals, which will be accepted from the proposal of the Ombudsman, that, unfortunately, from the first to the second reading, no step has been made that we all expected together. We still have the situation that the only thing we are blindly following as a mantra is that we have followed the European directives, and we have absolutely no problem with that because we are part of the European community, but we were also not prepared to take into account that some problems in their legislative and constitutional framework have some other EU members like Portugal who then did not blindly follow only European directives but have put the system in place as appropriate with their legislative framework. So today, we have a debate on the second reading of the law where the arraignment attorney first says that there is much to ask what she will be able to do in accordance with the powers she has. He draws attention to the fact that he may still have to try to fix himself, and if we do not take into account everything that the Ombudsman has said to each of us, no matter how much he is interested in and how deeply he is willing to enter it, he can understand that there is much left to be said. From secondary legal aid to psychosocial aid, to continue to avoid grading punishment for certain wrongs because I think we can all agree if a company or a public system has several billion euros in income, especially if it is private capital, that some fine of 50,000 kuna is not something that will prevent it in its intention. And so, in front of the SDP Club, once again, we stress that we believe that it is not enough as the ultimate anti-corruption package, that this law will not lead us into that ugly situation that we are doing an inventory with a 10-year delay where some people who were then brave enough to fight against a certain system and that, for the ultimate support or not, we will wait for what we have prepared from our amendments until the vote itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100572	Thank you, Mr. Jaksic, and now Mrs. Antoliæ Vupra. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100573	At the very least, it is saddened that the whole opposition is thundering over what we were promised to include from one reading to the next in this final bill. So, from the Committee on the Constitution, from the Committee on Human Rights, all these meetings with associations have not persuaded the promoter to listen and simply open the door to whistles, not snitches to be more adequately protected. They're not allowed to protect their lives, they're not allowed psychosocial help. So, a series of mechanisms that would make life easier for whistles simply came under the questionnaire and fear of citizens, who today are visible and who will prevent millions of kunas from being saved in the state, us, budgets that could be used for all that citizens need to today, will be blacked out in some private spheres. So it's indescribable that Ankica Leprechaun is a synonym for future whistles. Nothing else is going to happen to them, and it's not going to happen better because it's going to have an expensive car. So that difference between receiving someone will be the key difference between a person dared or dared not report it. So this man who has a little higher income or a little average income he won't actually be able to apply. You are thus discriminating and making it impossible for at least half of Croatian citizens to become those who dare to step forward in the first place, that is discrimination. And so we are rightly disappointed that simply what you are ordering the occupier to do becomes an act that will make a difference from what was in the life of Ankica Lepoway. I'd like to say let's have a minute of silence, I don't have words in a simple autistic way that on several committees repeated requests and facts didn't get involved in the proposal for a second reading and the promise to get involved. I have no words and remain astounded and still by simply shutting down half of Croatian citizens, if not more and with the opportunity to save this country millions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100574	You, too. Mrs. Ursha Raukar Gamulin will speak in front of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100575	Thank you. It is generally known that we live in a country where corruption in a high procedure simply accepts a social pattern of behavior. The number of ministers arriving in the Mercedes, leaving in the margins, is frighteningly large and suggests systemic corruption from the top of the government that is spreading into all the pores and all the layers of this society. It is also a common fact that the first reason for the enormous eviction of our potent young generations is just corruption. It is also a fact that some poor few thousand kunas are scheduled to fight corruption in the state budget for 2022. The disastrous corruption situation, as I have already said, is also a good picture of the fact that this government in the Anti-Corruption Strategy for the period from '21-'30. The goal is to reduce corruption to 80%. That is why it is not surprising that citizens believe that the government is not successful in fighting corruption, but believe that ordinary people can start changes in the fight against corruption. And that is why this bill on whistles is one of the most important tools in the fight against this evil that has been destroying and disintegrating this society for decades, it is one of the most important anti-corruption mechanisms, and therefore it is necessary and necessary for the law to be both applicable and effective. The aim of the law should be to prevent revenge against applicants of irregularities and to protect them. We see from the previous examples of complaints brought about for the protection of applicants of irregularities that the current law was merely an attempt to regulate and regulate this area, but the protection of whistles did not come into practice. It is therefore important to adopt a law that will allow adequate protection to whistles and a new law must establish the principle of protecting legitimate expectations of the applicant for irregularities. It should be pointed out that the open and accessible negotiations to the OECD are a detailed evaluation process will be prepared provided that adherence to the values, visions and priorities held in the OECD's statement of vision for the 60th anniversary and the statement of the Council of Ministers adopted last year is confirmed. One of the priorities of the OECD is to establish a precisely effective system of protection of applicants irregularity. The aim of the law should be to prevent revenge against applicants of irregularities, not that the law acts repressively only when revenge and happens. It takes a social consensus that reporting irregularities is not only necessary but also desirable social behavior. So you need to find a way to and in order to really reward all of these, just for a second, a little bit of escape, I don't want to waste paper, and then it happens to me, so I said I stopped there, rewarding the notifiers of irregularities that report irregularity when an irregularity is removed because that kind of behavior brings benefits to the employer and, of course, to the end and to the whole society. Since the new Law on the Protection of this, which is now the final proposal we are discussing, would not only remain on the subject of cosmetic amendments to the current law, we propose to introduce the following amendments, so the law is not at all prescribed the way in which they are handled once irregularities have been identified and the way in which they are removed. And that is why we believe that there should also be a way of acting after establishing irregularities and resolution deadlines because unfortunately this law will not achieve its objective. In any event, it is necessary to explicitly prohibit termination as revenge in the reporting of irregularities, then it is necessary to prohibit giving and notices of termination, or warnings of labour obligations, because often employers make warnings before cancelling work contracts to scare workers, and the same, of course, abandoning further reporting irregularities. And it is known that employers are familiar with the financial situation of workers, so the notice of termination can be used as a threat or as blackmail. It must also provide for a ban on the granting of business terms and conditions, so-called technological surplus because employers often use the institute to hide that they actually quit the worker who reported irregularities. We believe that the saying should be prescribed that the application of irregularities is not considered a breach of business secrets, nor other secrets, for example, professional, official, etc. It should certainly increase the number of employees who choose a trusted person due to the fact that the employer can often easily control 20% of the workers. It should also be stressed that the procedure must be confidential so that workers do not choose a trusted person to be imposed on them by the employer. It is also necessary to extend the possibility of reporting irregularities in the internal reporting of irregularities to all other bodies in the employer who are obliged and authorised to report irregularities, reports of corrupt operations or fraud by internal acts. For example, this is already mentioned by the Ethics Commissioner or person authorised to receive and resolve complaints concerning the protection of workers' dignity in accordance with Article 134. The labour law. And if the reports refer to irregularities, he suspects corruption or fraud. In fact, often workers report irregularities and other bodies to the employer, which is out of ignorance, and because of the fact that there is no designated confidential person in the employer or unfortunately do not believe the same. It is therefore necessary to extend the circle of persons to report irregularities and thus to extend the protection of whistles. The legislator, just like this, makes it impossible to provide adequate protection by prescribing competent persons. It is also not prescribed in the case where a confidential person is not appointed in the employer, so this is more a reason for enlargement to other employers' bodies. We believe that it is also necessary to extend the circle of the authorities here and for the external reporting of irregularities, which I spoke of in the replica to Mr. Secretary of State. I believe that, therefore, we should think that this should be extended to the State Attorney's Office and to the State's Inspectorate, because because of the lack of legal direction, applicants of irregularities can think that applying to the DORH and the Inspectorate is the same as applying to the Attorney General and thereby bringing themselves into a more unfavourable situation, namely in a situation where they are without legal protection as whistles. Furthermore, the aim of this law should not be to repress against the applicants of irregularities but to prevent and protect applicants of irregularities. Because nowhere is it mentioned how it will be determined that the applicant knew that the information was false, and who is in fact determining it. And therefore malfeasances are allowed by the employer of course and further increases the possibility of revenge against the applicants of irregularities. Finally, it is also necessary to enable current applicants to have adequate protection under the provisions of this new law so that applicants of irregularities under the current law would not be placed in a more unfavourable position. This is all I've been saying right now, we're going to propose on behalf of the Green-Left bloc club and through the amendments we hope for, sir, we're not even listening. It's a custom, okay. So we hope that you will take the amendments seriously because they have been presented on various committees of these observations. And therefore, it is necessary to improve this final bill in order for the final text to really get some powerful weapon in the fight against corruption, otherwise we will remain again within the framework of the current strategy, which is reaching the 80% corruption target in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100576	Mr Nikola Mažar will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100577	I would like to thank the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. Here's what we could do today in the debate and hear and see from the proposings, as well as from the club's parliamentary representatives who have spoken so far. In front of us is the Final Proposal of the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity. In the opening part of the proposal, we could hear the reasons for the adoption of a new Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, as well as the amendments and new solutions proposed by the final draft of the law in relation to the solutions set out in the bill, i.e. from the first reading. In short, it is recalled that the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity is a collokiously called The Blowers Act adopted in the Croatian Assembly on 8 February 2019 and entered into force on 1 July 2019. And I'm saying this for two reasons first. The first reason is that, before the law was passed, the protection of applicants of irregularities, or whistles, was not regulated by a specific law, but was partly regulated in some other laws. And for these reasons, there was no need, there was no possibility that in one quality law it would be all in one place to protect not only the applicants in a quality way, but also create a whole network of assistance for them and therefore, in 2019, it passed this law, but it also created a prerequisite for it to be among the first EU members to regulate the rights of those who report irregularities. With today's proposal for a law that lies ahead, Croatia will fully fulfil the obligation to transpose the EU's relative law into the Croatian legal order. harmonisation with EU Directive 2019/1937 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of persons reporting infringements of Union law. But in the context of the Union, the application and public disclosure by whistles are an important component of the implementation of Union law and policies. The protection provided to whistles is fragmented across Member States and uneven in view of the policy area. In addition to harmonising with EU law, the bill also contains certain improvements in the legal framework for the protection of applicants of irregularities in relation to the applicable Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, as well as amendments to certain provisions to which law holders have indicated in the past period. The protection of applicants of irregularities is a key instrument in the fight against corruption and all other irregularities in our society. As a result, this proposal of the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity is also extremely important not only as a legal act but also as a strategic document. The new law will contribute to further strengthening the legal protection of applicants of irregularities and raising public awareness of the need to report irregularities in order to protect public interest, protect EU financial interests, the interests of the Republic of Croatia, protect human rights and generally legal certainty. The aim of this law is to protect applicants of irregularities effectively, including ensuring available and reliable means of reporting irregularities. The improvements adopted by this draft law relate, inter alia, to the introduction of mechanisms to protect applicants of irregularities involving clear channels of reporting irregularities, the introduction of a system of reporting through 3 levels, internal channels, reporting to competent authorities and public media reporting. Determining the competent authority to receive reports of infringements covered by the application of the Directive and taking reporting measures, the obligation to provide feedback to applicants of irregularities, the prevention of retribution and effective protection, the extension of the circle of applicants of irregularities, the more detailed regulation of the protection of their identity, as well as the lack of accountability when reporting irregularities, the clearer definition of cases of revenge, the extension of or the full lifting of deadlines, which represents a significant positive shift in the more effective protection of persons who decide to report irregularities. As we discuss today in HS the final draft of the law, I would like to welcome the amendments adopted in relation to the solutions set out in the draft law by the proposings, and on the proposal of the Committee on Law, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the political system of HS. Other additional amendments have shortened the deadlines for the harmonisation of the general acts of the employers for the implementation of the law and the appointment of a confidential person in accordance with the law. In judicial proceedings, the court will always take into account the need for urgent dispute resolution. It shall also extend criminal liability to any person involved in the application of irregularities which violates the rules on confidentiality of the application and identity of the notifiers and the reported person. Certain legal gaps and an extended circle of applicants of irregularities have been resolved. Furthermore, the draft law adds the responsibilities of the Ombudsman as external reporting bodies, as well as the procedure for external reporting irregularities, and allows for external recognition before the internal reporting path is exhausted. It is explicitly prescribed to monitor the implementation of this law and the rules to be adopted on the basis of it. The term doing business is replaced by a more detailed working environment, but remains very broadly defined in what context protects applicants of irregularities including activities that have lasted, which have only yet to begin. The working environment shall mean the current or previous professional activities in the public or private sector in which, independently of the nature of these activities, persons acquire information about irregularities and where such persons may experience revenge if they report such information by including the situation when the activity has ceased or is directly needed or should have started. This definition defines a broader range of activities compared to a classical labour relationship within which there can be knowledge of irregularities and within which these persons could experience revenge, and also an extended time scale to situations where the activity has ceased or immediately needed or should have started. As a trusted person other than a person employed by an employer can now be appointed a third party, thus allowing a much wider circle of persons than the trust of workers to be appointed as a trusted person. It is also indicated to replace the definition of harmful action by the concept of revenge, which means any direct or indirect action or failure in the working environment, including threats of revenge and attempts at revenge triggered by internal or external reporting or public disclosure, and causes or may cause undue damage to the notifier. It is also prescribed by this law that the application of irregularities in any of the intended means does not affect the right of the notifier to submit directly to bodies authorised to comply with the content of the application in accordance with specific law and established systems of detection and conduct by irregularities at any time. and established systems of detection and conduct of irregularities. A more detailed obligation to protect the identity of the applicant of irregularities is also regulated, which may be considered as one of the key measures of protection against revenge. A confidential person and her deputy had the right to judicial protection and compensation for damages if they made it likely that they had been or could have been retaliated for receiving, or acting on the application of irregularities. By ensuring the protection of persons acting on a application that strengthens the whistle protection system. This law lays down the obligation to draw up a reasoned report on the final outcome of the application-based proceedings, and also defines the obligation to notify applicants of the irregularities in the conduct and the outcome of the procedure after its completion. It's final. In the debate, we could hear the commendation that the applicant discussed all the comments and proposals during the public debate, and the satisfaction expressed was that most of the proposal was adopted by the Ombudsman. A number of innovations introduced and regulated by this law are also praised, and this represents a strong and positive step in protecting applicants of irregularities shows the opinion of the Association of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia who participated in the working group on draft laws and who are satisfied with the new draft law. For all of the above reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of a final draft law on the protection of applicants of irregularities.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100578	Mr. Stephen Nikola Bartulica will speak in front of the House Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100579	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I think all of us here in the assembly agree that fighting corruption is an important and priority issue. We also likely agree that there is a need to further protect brave people, courageous individuals who are resilient and report irregularities either in companies or in public administration bodies. I don't think there's any slow. These are very brave individuals who dare expose themselves to make it clear to all of us at the end of the day what happens below the surface in Croatia. However, given the expansion of corruption and abuse of powers and political power that is happening daily in our country, the question arises why there is no more so-called. The whistle. Why can't their voice be heard more often? I think the main reason is the lack of trust in institutions. So, unfortunately, our people are still afraid of the consequences. They have the impression that the main state authorities responsible for the pursuit of crime and corruption are not able to do it properly, in an adequate way and then do not dare do it and rather remain silent. Unfortunately. However, I would take the opportunity today to talk more about the causes of corruption itself in our society. I am convinced that the great reason perhaps the greatest reason that the share of the state, the share of politics in our lives is too great. So we need to reduce the space for abuses for various marifetteluke. Here's a word I learned quickly when I moved here from America, marifetteluk. I haven't learned that expression as a child from my parents, but now I understand what that term means. It's often heard in everyday conversations with people and even with citizens who turn to me, marifetteluk. So how do you reduce? First of all, I'm going to find out once again that we own too many companies on state property. So this modus operandi, this way of managing where the government or politicians decide who will run the big business has its price and we see that old practices, old habits do not change in Croatia. That's what this is about. We need to change our mentality and our culture to make this less and less so we don't even need to think about how we're going to protect the whistler. The other day I had a meeting with very brave women who talked about breast cancer, about how to treat various cancer cases in Croatia. And one lady told me there's a lot of cases of people getting sick, having cancer, losing their jobs. So employers take advantage of this trouble people simply find ways for people to lose their jobs, unfortunately and nothing changes, nothing happens. We heard it on the Assembly Health Committee on such cases, but unfortunately that practice continues to be tolerated, it happens. And people who are already sick and in such troubles rarely have the opportunity to take further steps and report those who abuse these circumstances. So we also have a metaphor for the intertwination of public and private interest in Croatia, which is Slovenska 9, the address Slovenska 9 which has become a metaphor for how our country works. So individuals are in a closed area, very influential people from the world of politics, business, and media, and agree on various jobs. And all the luck that it's been discovered and we know about this address because of a case of corruption, I won't be long about it now, but it's become a metaphor for how our country works, Slovenia 9 and who will report other places where behind closed doors things happen because unfortunately we know that the competitions often in our country are negotiated in advance, it's known who gets the job, it's known in advance, we're not all equal, some are more equal than others, especially members of ruling structures, ruling parties and so forth, it's a practice. And who will report when there is knowledge that the tender is clearly agreed in advance and is not just or transparent, who, how often this happens, and the competitions are held daily in Croatia, from local level to central state. One more thing would warn you that it is not necessarily all that is lawfully moral. We often have cases where individuals defend themselves in public space and speak I didn't break or break the law, everything was in accordance with the law, everything is legal, and necessarily that doesn't mean it was moral. So often people who talk to me see that things aren't fair and that a lot of things under the surface are going on in an immoral way, but sometimes it's even in accordance with the laws and it's something to talk about, talk about. It is essential that our laws are not always moral, and then it opens up great space for individual politicians and other powerful people to hide. So, ladies and gentlemen, we need to look at this whole range. This law has a shift, but it certainly won't solve what I'm talking about, so the state is all-enhancing, excessive public administration, dysfunctional, no one dares to change it, so as long as our fates depend on politicians and we can't fight for a better life alone to feed our families there won't be a shift, it doesn't matter who replaces these ministers who will soon be replaced. It doesn't matter that much in the end. Practices and habits remain the same in Croatia for 30 years, and the price is very high, we see it by the number of people who have left our country and who refuse to participate in these corruption games, this marifetteluk I mentioned, this unfortunate marriquetluk. They don't want to participate, and they'd rather go abroad and look for jobs where they don't need to know their own politicians in order to get a job, get out of our country, and they just can't watch it anymore and watch it. Unfortunately, and this is the same legacy and legacy of this way of governance and the biggest responsibility is on HDZ, the longest this party has been in power and has the greatest responsibility for all that is good, but also bad in Croatian society and we in the Homeland Movement will insist on it, we will insist on a smaller share of the total state in our lives. It's too big and that's why we have an anemic economic growth, and that's why at a time of trouble and crisis, we're more vulnerable than we should be, and it's not changing at all, and the whistles in the end can only be encouraged, my doors are always open, if you have a case that you want to report or consult freely to me, I'll do anything to give you not only protection and real advice, but that we all fight together in the right way for everyone to end up getting better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100580	Ma'am, we're moving on to individual debates, and now it's time to go. Vesna Vucilović, she's gone, she's losing her right. All right, Mrs. Devereaux. Romana Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100581	I would like to thank the President, Vice President of the Assembly. Today on the agenda is what's so-called. The Law on whistles that should aim to prevent revenge against applicants of irregularities and provide them with adequate protection, encourage all those who face dishonest actions to report them without fear and without fear of their future. If the fight against corruption is based only on adopted laws and documents, and in practice is not applied or eradicated, then we can say that the system has failed. As long as anyone reporting corruption is not protected, they remain disappointed or feel an injustice at every step after reporting, we will never strengthen the awareness of individuals reporting irregularities, and the greatest injustice they feel is when they see that the laws in this country are not equal for everyone, that there are no penalties for thieves, that powerful men and corrupt politicians have been avoiding the hand of justice for years, and those who report to corruption are left without work and subject to mockery by the system. So there's a living example of a superior who's been reported by a whistler for a crime of abuse of office, and now he's sitting in prison, but he's not resigning, he's even repeating crimes of abuse, which is why he's in a prison of investigation, and he's doing it right out of prison. That's, that's our absurd in the state. And precisely because of this injustice, because of this mistrust in the institutions, because of the lack of reforms, people leave our country, precisely because of these things because only those who have reported irregularities are punished, but not the perpetrators. That is why we have also submitted a series of amendments and we are publicly repeating the importance of strengthening the protection of applicants because raising public awareness of the importance of reporting corruption must go in parallel with strengthening the integrity of the public authority and the efficiency of the judiciary. Starting with the knowledge that corruption is a danger to the survival of Croatia, for its safety and well-being of citizens and citizens, we ask the ruling to show that there is political will and determination against corruption. The fight against corruption, the fight against corruption is the basis for an equal, advanced and normal Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100582	Thank you. Mr. Marko Milanović litre, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100583	I find this debate a little unexpected because I have to admit that I have watched and what social networks say and those who support me in political action. Some were distracted that I had used the term whistles for this speaker, instead of the official term for applicants of irregularities. And that's exactly the point. So, term, legal term speaks a lot like I said nomen est omens. When we look at the structure based on the internal system of reporting irregularities, which I said was ineffective then we can say that the applicant of irregularities is responsible for those situations, so it fits where someone reports that, for example, the fire extinguisher has expired that atest. It's an irregularity that endangers all workers, but it's not a real whistle and it's not corruption. Both by the consequences and by what the whistler suffers when he reports a serious corrupt crime, he differs significantly from the one who has just reported an irregularity by his own name. And that's what was the main intensities of this law. However, this same intensity is seen in a whole series of other examples, for example. In Article 4, the scope is defined, and it is then said that this law primarily seeks to address those irregularities affecting the financial interests of the EU or which are covered by EU acts, and then only below 3 concerning those relating to the internal market, and only below 4, so only in fourth place has the law put it again in one vague term of reporting irregularities relating to certain other provisions of national legislation if such violations are at risk and public interest. If we really wanted to improve the fight against corruption and protect the position of whistlesmen, then the provision would be that this law would protect the applicants of corrupt crimes by putting those words in the provisions of the law first and not fourth. All the time using the term, we want to reduce the importance and content and topics as if we want to cover, hide and cover the matter with which a law like this should be dealt with. Furthermore, the provisions of the law do not explicitly state what happens to other national laws, e.g. The labour law, the Penal Code, which also provides for certain rules on the protection of real whistles. In some parts, these rules are even better if the court interprets them more quickly and better, however, this law does not say in any way whether these legal rules remain in force, which would in fact be logical to remain or derrogate, and given that this is not explicitly stated in practice could lead to confusion, misapplication of material law and repeated repetition of proceedings due to appeal of judgments because there will always be some error in the application and interpretation of the law by the judge of a case. Furthermore, where I still see the problem and difficulties with applying the law in practice, these are also breaking provisions. So most MPs referred to how low they are and how unfavourable they will not actually affect the prevention of reporting irregularities, that the applicant is trying to bring the litigation of litigation into some unfavourable position, or in some other way retaliate. There's a problem with something else. The problem is that for the infringement court of this provision, it will be prejudicially legal issues. In fact, it means that misdemeanor courts will first have to see for example. whether the resignation given to a applicant of irregularities or, for example, by bringing new systematisation of jobs on the basis of which the job of whistles has been abolished, the infringement court will first need to determine whether it is revenge, and only then to impose sanctions. In this regard, however, it should actually be decided in some other procedure rather than in an infringing procedure. A misdemeanor isn't in charge of that. It will happen that criminal sanctions will be decided only after the other proceedings have been completed or if the criminal court has resolved itself A preliminary legal question will come to a double and different [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] legal practices. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100584	Mr. Pavić, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100585	Dear MPs, every time we've heard a sentence, let the institutions do their job, put only 10 limes in the bank, I believe we'd all be millionaires. And now that these institutions are not doing their job, when these conscious people finally decide to report that irregularity, then other institutions that should protect them instead of protecting them are doing what they do. And instead of these people having some different status, having a more favourable status, to stay in the workplace they're actually destroying them. They're destroying both them and their families. And we have to prevent that in some way. We've given amendments, we'll see if the government is ready to accept you and help these people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100586	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100587	So the government will not be ready to accept these amendments. Now I'm going to say something that is not appropriate to say for a Parliament speaker, but I am convincing something that I have witnessed in practice. So, a number of judges, and especially a number of lawyers, when they were solving an object that was in their hands, or a file that was in their hands, literally like this: "What fool wrote these laws?" And to be simple to the expression of fools is actually us and not always the wrong institutions, not always the judge, not always the inspector, not always the blame of the state lawyer. They are obliged to apply the law as the law says. If the law is not technically inadmissible, if it is in collegiate with the provisions of other laws, it is not the other institutions who blame it, but ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100588	Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100589	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague Oreshkovic. So every law that we get here and that we're discussing, I kind of think we should always discuss form, content. One thing is the form of the law, about how certain things are defined and everything else, and the other topic is from content, which we will get through the content of this law, which will step forward. It seems to me that by this law that we haven't made a step, that this law will actually leave whistles still to the mercy and mercy of the institutions and instead of making a step in the sense that people somehow have their own safety, to have protection if they decide. It's not simple, let's be clear right now. If they decide that we have actually left it at the mercy and mercy of everything possible and impossible and that this law will not win the result if we wanted it, so I'm curious about what your position is about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100590	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100591	My point is that if we were to throw out 95% of the provisions or the whole law, in fact, if we had abolished it for whistles, nothing special would have happened. So what do whistlers need? They need one thing, and that's that they don't suffer any damage after they file a complaint. When I say damage, I mean, they've lost their jobs, they've lost their income, or they've lost their jobs, and they've suffered in some other way their immediate family or other persons with whom they're connected as simple as given. They don't need anything on top of it. But instead of such protection, we have introduced a whole series of other bodies, so some kind of confidential person who will what? Registrations will be recorded, and so will the Ombudsman’s staff, and these applications will be forwarded further, so they can do what whistlers can do without all these people.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100592	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Ursha Raukar Gamulin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100593	Thank you. I think it is important to recall some conclusions from the 20th Thematic Session of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, which was held at the Croatian Parliament on 1.3 this year in 2022. One of the conclusions is, for example, called on the Ministry of Justice and the Administration to regulate the right to free secondary legal assistance to all applicants of irregularities independently of the property censor's property price. Unfortunately, as we can see, the ministry has not accepted the conclusion of the National Council. Hope remains, because it is still not over and our strong commitment to include it in the final proposal of this law until the vote itself. It is then called upon by the Ministry of Justice and the Administration to make the final proposal of the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity a provision for courts to keep records of the statistics on the duration of cases relating to the reporting of irregularities and to be reported by the Ministry of Justice and Administration. It should be commented that what it is and in the beginning some colleagues and colleagues have said is that it is a very small number of applications and an extremely small number of lawsuits filed, which already speaks about this law so far, and I am afraid that this proposal will not bring much change in this regard and that unfortunately this will not become a powerful weapon in the fight against corruption but rather a cosmetic law. It should certainly be pointed out that the public and potential applicants are not sufficiently familiar with the entire system of protection of applicants of irregularities or any effectiveness, so it is evident that public education and information on the possibility of reporting irregularities is needed. the ability to fight corruption. I've already talked about it on behalf of the club about the need for the spread of authorized persons, so both bodies and internal reporting and external reporting, and I've explained everything. I will only briefly repeat that this is necessary to avoid the possibility that it will come to a complete certainty that simply whistles that will not report the law provided, and it is perfectly logical to report for example to the DORH or the Inspectorate or the Ethics Commissioner about the external and internal possibilities to be due to their ignorance, ignorance and simply because of their logical thinking remain without legal protection and remain at the mercy and mercy of the employers to whom we testify regularly. I will end up, however, because of the shortness of time with the quote by Adriana Cvrtila, a whistle that tells us about this final bill: “Unfortunately, it is only cosmetics without any will to really help the applicants of irregularities that have run out of work. In my particular case, I don't have the means to pay for a lawyer, the judge is holding my request for a temporary measure, for a return to work until the end of the work dispute in the drawer, even though it says here in the law that within eight days she has to decide what she didn't do, but for her, the judge has no sanctions. Furthermore, there is no provision in the eu directive that whistles should not be sued for slander if they publicly discuss irregularities because I have therefore earned nine private charges for slander and an account of about 200,000 kuna. And to end without a grudge against reality, I am sorry that I whistled in Croatia because I turned out to be a high-ranking weirdo without a job, if I'd done it anywhere in a decent legalised state in the EU, I'd probably be a hero. This is told by Adriana Cvrtila, the courageous individual who, regardless of the consequences, remained consistent, who reported an irregularity and who is actively fighting corruption. It is up to us to allow all these Adrians in the future to, as I say, be protected from the state enough, but also accepted in this society and supported by everyone. future applicants of irregularities, without it [[Intruder Radina: Time, thank you.]] corruption will bloom 120%. [[Intruder Radina: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100594	Mrs. Dark Taritash, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100595	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My colleagues, Raukar. So, I always and somehow think that we need to know what the meaning of the law is and whether or not I understand the meaning of the law some time I can agree some time no, but I understand it. I must admit that I don't understand the meaning of this law until the end. So we have a law that regulated it and somehow it was a practice that it wasn't properly regulated. And now we're going into a new law that already in the debate is evident and clear that it won't make a single step. So, what do we want? Do we really want the whistles to really encourage people to know if they've decided to be applicants, so I'm not talking about all those who sort out some of their frustrations in this way, I'm talking about those who really responsible and honestly want to do it so that this law really encourages them to make them sign up to be safe, or we'll actually have just one more law and put We've got the law on the line. [[Intruder Radina: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100596	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100597	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues. Yes, there are too many objections and there are too many voices both from associations and from individuals and from committees, and besides, I have now quoted the National Council and their conclusions, so there are too many indications of concrete examples, concrete proposals that show us that if this law remains in this form, if there are no amendments, I expect them very much, if they will all be, if it is as it is unfortunately a custom to refuse and priors all amendments coming from the opposition, unfortunately I am afraid that we will remain on this so-called cosmetic law and that this law will not become what it really could be, and it is a powerful and murderous weapon to say so in the fight against corruption. [[Intruder Radina: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100598	Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100599	Thank you very much. Comrade Raukar, here you have given strong support, you have even appointed individual applicants of irregularities to Mrs. Cvrtilo, etc., here... The city of Zagreb means I've read something in the media, so you still have some deadline for almost 10 months, and I've read that this other Mrs. Jerek has come forward to take over this city property management front office and that you've subsequently annulled this competition, probably thinking that it's not a good candidate that you're very much defending on this speaker and their right to report irregularities. You can tell me why you don't have the headmasters and why you are the lady who obviously has your support as representatives in the city of Zagreb where you are in power simply eliminated her? You canceled the contest, and at least you'd be the second front page, and you'd be good. Can you explain that to us?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100600	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100601	I thank my colleague, Boric. You know, I would advise you to maybe study the laws on local and local self-government a little bit, and then you'd see that the directors can't really move when you come to power, it's not the same situation as the ministers in the government of the Republic of Croatia. Well, the other thing that I believe is quite unknown to you are public tenders, you know it exists to you and we're trying very hard to really conduct public transparent competitions. And the third thing, if you had a little bit of goodwill, then you'd also read in the media that Mrs. Derek gave up the contest herself, so here's my three answers. And in doing so, I really suggest that, first of all, when you ask questions like this, you ask the laws a little bit. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100602	Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100603	Honorable MPs. Here's a strange situation, we have before us the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, and it happened that the whistles that were here at our assembly at a conversation between the two readings founded their own association. Why? Because they decided this law wasn't protecting them. I think we have to do something to explain to the government, to explain to the people who offered us this law on reading that those amendments we wrote did not write them for ourselves, but we wrote them for those people who really want justice, who draw attention to crime, and if we don't help them, some associations will continue to be established through which they will seek both financial assistance and moral aid and psychological help, which is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100604	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100605	Thanks to my colleague for asking, it is indeed the Society of Pomak who founded whistles that have concluded that unfortunately between this first reading when it was that it was one law that would not make enough changes in the fight against corruption and that we too are from the Green-Left Block Club working very closely with, in fact we are working closely with the Pomak Association and with, and with the lady. Derek and the lady. We burn and try to transfer their experiences and suggestions to this assembly when the code has not been heard, with law makers. Unfortunately, we see that the Ministry of Justice and the Administration did not even listen to the conclusion of the National Council to monitor the fight against corruption, which I would have already said in the system a little problem and should work on it, but here I still hope that until the vote itself will be accepted by the amendments and that all these strong voices will be heard in the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100606	Thank you very much, no more, no more, thank you, thank you. It's Mr. Boric's turn now. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100607	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today discussing the final proposal of the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, and we are pleased with this concern of our colleagues in the opposition and everything they have noticed in this law that they are not well. However, at the beginning of the words, there was a lack of government and time in this country, but only one government, the previous government of Andrej Plenkovic passed this law, this government further edits it in accordance with certain and European directives and the desire to really edit that area where certain irregularities occur, but also those who have something to say on this issue, means I understand the story, but the work is what makes you such a politician who knows how to achieve what he promises. It's no problem to talk, it's no problem to find a detail that bothers us, but we can see that there's politics here too, so I'll try to explain, through my debate, maybe some nuns who showed up, and they're not a good enough explanation, but first of all, I'll explain it to Mrs. McNally. Raukar answers her claim that I know nothing about local self-government. I was the head of the municipality, and I had my supervisor in some within almost two months, so maybe two months at the latest, so there are public tenders, and we know how it works, but after 10 months, that you don't have any president, in fact you have one, I don't know how he did it for the cadastre and the geodetic jobs, but all of them are some kind of deputies or performers of some kind of duty, and it's neatly passed in seven months, and we're saying that you're good at getting a person through the competition, and then the lady who reports you're telling me we support her because she's in this area the applicant's irregularities, but here she gave up alone, we haven't been able to talk her somehow, but she's been persuaded by some other mayor to be his advisor, and today she's the same one, along with her deputy, and I's resigned all of all the election process process and blocked the city for at least six months. We are going to deal with politics, whether this real desire is expressed through our actions, or whether it is simply stated simply that something is spoken in this assembly of ours, is I think that this law, which is fully within us in HDZ, regulates and reports of irregularities and procedures and the rights of persons in the application process, as well as the obligation of the public authority, and legal and natural persons who clearly state what the applicant of irregularities is entitled to when we talk about protection of identity and confidentiality, judicial protection, damage compensation, primary legal aid in accordance with the law, about other protections. We have clearly listed internal reporting procedures, so external reporting and, of course, what often appears with us, and that is most important, it is public disclosure of irregularities under certain conditions and of course we are all afraid of political space and everyone has one of their applicants who suits him. Why? Because those mentioned are mostly talking about a political option that does not suit them in opposition, and they have forgotten theirs. Let's just say no one mentioned a lady today. Jasmine Joov. Why? Well, at least we expected it from the SDP Club or at least from the Social Democrats. No one. Why? Because her application resulted in an inadmissible verdict so far, and I'm not going to comment on it, but obviously it had its basis. Why didn't anyone want to mention her? Because everyone else is interesting. My colleague Pavić here mentioned one Association of Pomak, I agree, let people team up, but looking at what was said at that founding assembly let's say the Association no, I say we don't have political ambitions, because we can all agree on it, and we see who are members of the main body of that, and the association, who was the secretary, who was the man of one political party, so the man who is vice president and the current mayor, can we tell for some mayor that he doesn't deal with politics regardless of what he calls himself an independent mayor, and in the body is the association. So are we gonna say we don't have any political ambitions? I allow myself a certain reserve to say that there may still be something there and only processes ahead of us will show that those who are very political, not political, but media exposed as non-reporters may be at certain political functions tomorrow, maybe, I don't know, speaking from experience.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100608	Thank you, time, time, Mr. Boric's time. Before I give the replicas I have one, one, one thing to mention. There have been remarks that will probably appear now in, and in replicas that in the first part that I have to say since I had one, since I had one very important call I didn't listen to until the end, but I believe those who told me that you didn't stick to the subject, in the second part when I listened to you on some, in some way you stuck to the subject at least as they stuck to the topic and some others before who spoke anecdotally to say so about so-called. whistles, even calling them whistles, not whistles, and so on, so it was, and I didn't intervene before, so I didn't find it appropriate to intervene in that second part or later. If that's what happened in that section, we'll see from the replicas. The first replica of Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic Injury of the Rules of Procedure, violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Employment: Injury of the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100609	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, thank the President for actually explaining in advance that my injury to the Rules of Procedure is justified. Yes, indeed, a representative is not a state of the subject, but not slow, but most of his speech. And I must regret to say that you simply sounded to my colleague Boric as if you were in a meeting of anonymous alcoholics, so you complain, forgive me, but I am very much, I am a representative, I am a politician and I am extremely afraid of opposition. That's what you sounded like during the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100610	Okay, look, in this case I won't give... You have no right to answer that, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, just a little bit, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure I can answer that, ha such is the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm not going to warn this case to anyone, not to Mr. Boric, not to you because I didn't give it to you when you were sticking to it, when you didn't stick to it at one point, did you, but you spoke anecdotely. I'm sorry, but it's me. I was just listening from beginning to end. Uh, now Mr. Boric has given a breach to the Rules of Procedure, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100611	But it used to be Mrs. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100612	Yes, there are others. We'll go further with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure which you want me to tell you, but you know well that I don't give this one any warning if, at least in one part of this section, MPs stick to the subject because otherwise these injuries to the Rules of Procedure would be permanent. They'd be constant warnings. I don't give it because I respect freedom and, as I would say, I'm tolerated in that regard and I've always said it, I've always said it. Mostly my remarks are only on the abuse of Rules of Procedure by 238, after which someone abuses Article 238 in breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now, about this we will move on, I, I would ask you all to not this, to give up on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I can't tell you anything to order you to, then Mrs. Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100613	Thank you, Vice President. Article 238 was injured, the colleague did not stick to the topic, the first part talked about the situation of opposition clubs, and the second part talked about the Pomak Association. This is a serious institution, this is a serious law relating to serious cases that whistles or reports of irregularities are going through. I'd be begging Mr. Representative if he couldn't, if he couldn't defend something indefensible that he wouldn't better not, he wouldn't answer for a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100614	Since I've already answered that thing and I begged you to give up, I have to give you a warning because it was a replica at least to me, at least to me. Mr. Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100615	I thank the esteemed vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100616	It's Mr. Habian. No, it's not, you haven't been before. [[Intruder: I've been before.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100617	Thank you, dear Vice President. Article 238 of the 1st indent 7 was injured, so counterpart Oreskovic returned after a week of obvious crisis management in Split to Croatian benches and immediately insults representatives who speak in a way she does not like. So it's really not clear to me, I've been here for two years, I've been allowing that situation before, but I don't understand that someone has a right and takes the right to judge whether he likes what one of the MPs said. He was talking about the subject, he was talking about the whistler association, as far as I know. It's this law, and that's exactly the point. [[Mr. Habian, I'm sorry, time.]] What you don't like is what you heard, it's your problem. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100618	It was a replica, it was a replica, it was a reminder. And then you have a replica you could have said anything after no. Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100619	Thank you very much, Vice President. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament Mrs. Oreshkovic did not hurt but insulted the Rules of Procedure, and personally compared me with some people from the Association of treated alcoholics. If you don't like Mrs. Oreshkovic what I'm saying you have your pules down in Split and what they're doing probably like it, especially as Mr. Deputy Mayor says that now all of Split is going to the election Because he's able to say what he said. [[Intruder: Thank you, time, time.]] And you approve.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100620	It was a replica, it was...
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100621	Maybe teach him something and compare it to something.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100622	The warning, it was a replica, and in addition, the association of these treated alcoholics are highly respected associations and very important. So I wouldn't use them at any point by anyone because this is a method, a method of group treatment as if you're accusing someone of going into surgery. Mr. Mazhar is in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100623	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. He was injured in Article 238 by his colleague, Romana Nikolic, given that you yourself said what you heard about Boric talking about the subject, he specifically spoke about Mrs Jasmina Jov's whistle and I understand Mrs Nikolic's anxiety about the whistler who in the most difficult times spoke precisely about what the SDP government, SDP mayors and mayors were doing and what they got now and judgments, but not to use the SDP's violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100624	It was a replica, you have a warning, and now you have a right to a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100625	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Boric, here we are with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, but unfortunately we were forced both you and we. As I said, I understand the nervousness of our fellow parliamentary representatives named Jasmine Jovev, unfortunately there are also such names and Mrs. Maria Budimir, who showed her wish to Sabu then got fired as head of primary school in the town of Vukovar. What I'm interested in, today, when some let's say I can't even have the right to a presumption of innocence anymore, so for which neither proceedings were initiated nor arrests, and on the other hand Ms. Marina Lovric Merzel was arrested for three months in prison, getting paid at the same time Jasmina Jovev lost her job in Sisak-Moslavina County had no rights and all this was done under the cover of the SDP that we hear today.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100626	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100627	Thank you very much. The first thing we had to say when that power was not this law, they were too worried, and they were too worried about it too much. I will not comment on the inadmissible verdict, let the court finally state what would be in that case, but I wanted to point out that we had one debate that went one way and only the names of those applicants of irregularities they thought were doing a good job and I said that they had failed to mention exactly the lady you mentioned, as well as this other lady Budimir, because it did not suit them, as this lady who applied to the competition may not have responded either. Maybe, that's what I'm going to say because we heard that what was in the media wasn't exactly written, so we're going to stay on that it wasn't, but it doesn't mean it wasn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100628	Thank you. Mr. Habian replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100629	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague. Well, I'd also be able to relate to what I said to hurt the Rules of Procedure, what actually bothered me here is that hypocrisy and double criteria, but I'm going to hang on to this second part right now. So, during today's debate by opposition to part of the opposition, we are mostly listening to the SDP that this law, the final bill of law, is not good, that it will have very many amendments. Here were the words as if it were scandalous, that it was a very bad bill. However, I am now asking the question, if the government in February 2019, this ministry passed the bill afterwards only the EU adopts a directive showing this? So, what is the government and previous governments doing? Why didn't the SDP government pass this law if they cared so much about the protection of whistles today, and what was it in that previous period? What's changed, what's happened?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100630	Thank you very much. Now, if you'll excuse me before you answer, there are two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100631	Thank you. He's been injured. 238 of my colleagues, Habiban and his colleagues, Mazhar, because they sincerely insulted me because they constantly object to me that I am a member of the SDP. I'm no longer a member of the SDP we're gonna send you a new table where you're sitting, that's another thing, and the other thing is that if you move that ball like that, so I'm gonna get their mayor of Kutina sitting in jail for four months now, and the whistle has been fired.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100632	Thank you. No more time, no more time. Of course you have a warning because it was a replica, and it's no offense being a member of the SDP, no. ... Mrs. Andreja Maric. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100633	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. I've been staring really hard at everything you're saying, I haven't done anything wrong with my rules of procedure, but... I mean, 238, I mean, my colleague, Habib and my colleague, Hungarian, but here's my replica, I'm not replicating, but I'm getting attached to my colleague, Habib. You've really gone too far, if we're going to improve this law then it really doesn't matter if someone is SDP, SD, HDZ or so on. Accept what we say is wrong and do not insult us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100634	It was a replica, a warning. Was there another violation of the Rules of Procedure? No, don't wait now there was a violation of the rules of procedure I saw well Mr. Pavic. Here you go, Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100635	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100636	Here, I'll turn it off now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100637	Okay. I will draw attention to my colleagues on our left, otherwise on the right, that at the time of the Milanovic government, these whistles were not discriminated against, so he did not need such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100638	Replication, warning, replica warning. Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100639	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here I would just like you to help me, let's just say a little bit of a newer representative, etc., but I don't understand how a colleague can give a violation of the rules of procedure to me that I've replicated to Boric. Is there a breach of the Rules of Procedure on my replica in an individual debate?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100640	Here she is, and can I say something? She's been warned about this, and unfortunately, you've got to get yourself a new representative. But this Mrs. Sandra Bancic replica, not the answer to the replica before.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100641	Thank you very much. I didn't get to the end individually, which I wanted to be the third to talk about protecting confidentiality to avoid what's happening to us today, and they say it's not as good as this whole law. Article 16. means the person who is the applicant of an irregularity shall report the irregularity of the assistant applicant and any other person participating in the application procedure shall be obliged to protect the information he learns from the application and shall not use them, and shall go on and on. What did we have today? We have a public statement first, so then the charges, etc., applications and everything goes to some of our own during just what I'm trying to do through this bill. After internal application, then externally so if we don't go there let's see what we can do through this story of public disclosure of irregularities. But today we have everything the other way around, and of course some people don't like it, especially those who say they don't know who the strangers are and don't know who they are... and ultimately defend each other, and they don't even know which party they belong to, they don't actually have a party.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100642	Thank you very much. And now we're going to the replicas. Mrs. Bancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100643	Thank you. I listened very carefully to your presentations, Mr. Boric, of which 90% of course did not concern the subject, but it has clearly shown everything that is wrong with you, your party, and then finally, with this country, and that is a chronic lack of shame. So, the fact that you from this stage as a representative of the legally convicted party responsible for the corrupt crime, the party that runs the State Real estate d.o.o. You mention here Mrs. Derek, whom you fired after she reported irregularities concerning your minister and your government official. You dare even mention her name and put in the context of other competitions, talk about the competition Well, aren't you embarrassed? [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100644	Answer Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100645	Thank you very much. I did not quit to Mrs. Djerek, and as far as the city of Zagreb is concerned, once again I do not know which time, means time is running out, one year of taking responsibility for the citizens of this city, you do not have the headscarves, you do not have what I say to the ministers who are in charge of taking care of the individual restaurants you have drawn yourself and who should come and take over the function and responsibility. That's what I'm talking about. And when that lady you mentioned checked in, it turns out she gave up. Then what was she signing up for if she gave up? Or it was something else. Does that have to be right or motive for me to doubt anything? He's right why not as a politician. Now why did she give up? Were you some kind of mediator in that story? Did anyone else do anything? I don't know, but the second mayor took the same lady and put her as a counselor for the same problem in the city of Split. And after that, the same one from Mrs. Oreshkovic's party resigned today along with his deputy and says it's not a burden.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100646	Thank you. Injury of Mrs Bencic's Rules of Procedure [[Intruder Boric: I didn't do it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100647	Infringement of Article 238, so Mr. Boric does not insult MPs again, but it is nothing new. However, I would like to tell you something your lack of any political content and your only role in HDZ is to shell into political science has its own expression. I can send you a link from Wikipedia so you can see his name.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100648	It was a replica, I'm sorry. It was a replica. It's a warning. Give it up! I give a warning, and then you refer to the same thing. I mean, there's really no point. I have to give you both Mrs. Jelkovac and Mr. Boric an opportunity, but it's only for television to be clear. Here you go. Thank you very much. Yeah, okay. [["No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100650	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague named Bencic injured Article 238. The Rules of Procedure because he insults the MPs and acts this way inappropriately here in the assembly. Comrade Bencic, the easiest thing for me is to call on others to hide your incompetence. Take a look at your ranks.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100651	It's a warning. It was a replica. Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100652	Thank you very much. Article 238 demeaning me as a representative and speaker for this speaker here and calling for me to be ashamed and that I know nothing. After 12 years of executive power being at the state level, which at the local level, I have no idea. The Vice-President of my Environment Committee runs the session in a way that only after 18 sessions have learned to adopt the agenda. This must the Croatian public know, so only after 18 sessions have we learned to adopt the agenda without saying what is happening in the city of Zagreb where it meditates.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100653	Time, thank you very much. The warning, it was a replica. Mrs. Ursha Raukar Gamulin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100654	Thank you. Dear fellow Boric says the people attack is the best defense, because these ministers are coming to you more and more often in the Mercedes, and they're leaving my God as on tape. But we go back to the subject after all. I would ask you if you would be kind enough to comment on me and tell me if you think it is okay to conclude that the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy held in this Chamber 1.3. and one of these conclusions is that the Ministry of Justice has also introduced secondary legal assistance regardless of the censorship did not accept from the Ministry of Justice and was not implemented. Here's why I'm interested in you commenting on how you think the fight against corruption will take place if the Ministry of Justice doesn't accept opinions, conclusions, proposals from the National Council for monitoring the fight against corruption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100655	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100656	Thank you very much. I support what the Justice Department is doing. I think they're doing what they can and they know best and I think this law will be done in relation to what we had from 2019 will be one step forward when we talk about protecting the applicant's irregularities. What's going to happen will show time. I say you have your own polygons of authority. And I'm just curious as to why you've done this to me that you haven't had leading men in ten months. And when we see in the Zagreb Holding and the way the citizens received it and that is the question in which it will all end together. I claim that after Pula, Split Zagreb is not far away.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100657	The replica of Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100658	Thank you. Here I am going to connect to my colleague Ursha Raukar. Therefore, not only did HDZ and the Ministry of Justice not follow the recommendations of the National Council for monitoring the implementation of corruption control, but it did not accept proposals from the Advocate General. This means that HDZ does not respect and insult all Croatian institutions. One of the recommendations was to provide whistles with psychosocial assistance, which is particularly important and important. In the light of this proposal, which the HDZ has rejected in the light of this law, it says that this proposal is not accepted because you would imagine delaying it, it would delay the application of this law and decide on this psychosocial assistance somewhere in the future. I'm asking you when? When will that psychosocial aid be given to a person like Maya Derek whom you so rudely insulted during your speech?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100659	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100660	Thank you very much. I did not insult Mrs. Djerek in any way by mentioning her case and applying for a competition in the city of Zagreb. This may be how you experienced it, but your advice, consultations and consulting services may help the mayor of the city of Split, whom you first sent to the workshops when he received the indictment and now we all go to elections and do not give up, he is the value we respect. What the journalist has been through might have been about what you're saying. Did you step into the protection of that lady? You're not. Is it? You're not. Why? Because you're defending your political colors and political options and behavior and that's the credibility you're talking about, we're talking about quite differently, maybe it doesn't bother you, maybe it's your normal statement. I've already said it more than once here, and the prosecution is talking about it. And now, does the citizens of Split all have to go to elections because someone has found themselves under a certain... ? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Obviously, yes, and you have your estimates, we'll see how that goes.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100661	Thank you, thank you very much. Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100662	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs, here I am going to stick to the topic, not look back at this all that has been said so far, and I think this law aims to protect applicants or to make this society better than it has ever been. I'll ask you two things. First of all, are the institutions of the Croatian state, which are in office and which will solve the biggest part of the problem that exists, and that certain whistles can possibly take a step in this? But the other thing is, where the employers here, or the heads of institutions who are also exposed to any whistles they didn't get, got this verdict that they were right, and the heads of the institution were actually thrown out the link and the media and social networks.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100663	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100664	Thank you very much, fellow Shimičević. I personally think and I will vote for this law and I think that it is a step forward about what we want to really protect these people and that they have certain rights, but obviously there must be certain fuses in this process, and I think that the Ministry of Justice has made some moves there. Those who speak want to whistle here in opposition to us all the time or say that everything they say is like that, and that everything else that applies to them isn't so it's political struggles, I accept them, but there aren't any of these false curves that you've accused someone, you're wrong, we haven't said anything, those people are talking about themselves, they have their own space, they have their own media space, but we're talking about procedures and when they're satisfied we'll know where we are, but that we have the right political thinking, too, because we see that there's a double yen for what's going on, when there's nothing worth anything, we forget, and when it's with some others, then we'll tell all that's exactly how it's supposed to be. I think this law is good and we will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100665	Thank you very much, Mr. Boric. Let's move on, Mrs. Sandra Bencic, finally on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100667	I thank the chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday, on the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, we had a very long and constructive one, I would say a debate on the draft of this law. I think it is very good that yesterday it was already on the Committee on the Constitution that there was no plenary debate and the situation, or the amendment that corrected a single error in the law, which was put in place by the Ombudsman's office by certain obligations which could not be met under the constitutional provisions and regulations governing the work of the attorney general, specifically related persons with the applicant of irregularities when these related persons are legal persons for the reason that the Ombudsman has a mandate to conduct procedures concerning individuals of particular concern and to protect human rights of natural persons. It is very good that we reached a consensus yesterday and that this has been resolved in advance on the committee itself. What was not done and for which there was no hearing, which is to strengthen the provisions that really protect applicants of irregularities against their employers. I'm not saying there's no progress here, that's not what I'm saying. So, of course, there are parts of this law that improve certain segments of protection and it is not true that it is exactly the same as before. That's not what I'm saying. But you can see, therefore, that certain provisions, that it did not go to the end to really protect itself from those most common and radical phenomena of revenge against the applicants of irregularities. And if we try to object to it here, I'll tell you on specific examples to make it look like it. Let's take an example of Mrs. Maya Derek. What in this law, in this proposal, would specifically protect her from being fired during the duration of the establishment of irregularities. The employer and under this proposal of the law could actually resign her, and later perhaps it would be proven in court whether that resignation was revenge, was not revenge, etc. However, this bill does not continue to protect applicants for irregularities during the duration of the procedure of determining and the irregularities they have reported from any exceptional termination, whether they are regularly fired. With the view that I believe that this should also bear in mind the question of extending the contract to a certain one, since not extending the contract to a particular one can also be a form of revenge against the notifier or the applicant of irregularities. So, when we look at the case of Maja Jerek or other persons especially those who were in state-owned companies or the offices of the state administration, we see that effective protection still does not exist. And when you look that there are reports of irregularities that go to the most positioned officials in the state, and that these people still do not have adequate protection from firing, then it was clearly not intended to provide effective protection, but rather to improve the law in some way but not to make the applicants feel secure during the procedure of establishing irregularities. Second of all, how would Ankica Leway get past this law? Same thing. For the reasons that it is not clear and decided, it is mentioned, but not in a way that decidedly states that the granting of business, official or professional secrets when it comes to classified data which is evidence in this procedure or prove an irregularity that it will not be held responsible for giving away official, business or professional secrets. It must stand in this law in order for all applicants of irregularities to feel safe from possible claims for the damages of their employers to them as was the case in the case of Ankica Lepoy who got fired, who will forever be an illegal dismissal for me and who was ultimately charged by her employer for giving away business secrets. So the botto line is this law still our most famous whistles would not adequately protect against the revenge of their employers.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100668	Mr. Damir Habian in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club is also final.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100669	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I would once again point out the fact that there was actually a little mention here, which is how in February 2019 the Ministry of Justice and this government adopted the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity. She did so before, at EU level, both the European Parliament and the European Council adopted a directive that is now in line with, so these amendments and additions to our existing law. I think already at that point, we were among the first EU members to pass, so the law that regulated that matter. Already at that point, it was very clear that this ministry and this government are therefore proposing that the fight against corruption is something that is definitely a priority. Among other things, this final proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, along with the law on lobbying which was announced, in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure, which was also soon listed in the procedure in this Croatian Assembly in the document that we adopted here in October last year, that is, on the Strategy for the Prevention of Corruption, that is to say, the fight against corruption in the period 2021. So I think this all points to the real desire, the will and the endurance of this government to fight corruption. If I'm not wrong on behalf of the club when my colleague Gamulin spoke, she mentioned the perception of corruption. So this is a phenomenon that is present not only in our country, it is present in all non-EU countries, it is present in all the countries that exist in this world. But if you look at it, and the ministry has, when it was doing that strategy, conducted a research just on the perception of corruption as that phenomenon, where it's interesting, for example, if you look at trust in the judiciary, it's pretty low. So almost 75 to 80% of citizens and citizens of this country feel that the judiciary is corrupt. However, what is more interesting is the fact that much more than half of that percentage has never touched either party, for example, in any court procedure. So we can't talk about numbers, when we talk about statistics, then we have to be precise and we have to, we can't take everything black and white. Another thing I would like to mention, here was said by my colleague Oreshkovic that this is if I do not cheat on a law that will in some way only make it more difficult for people who seek the protection of applicants of extra stairs irregularities, extra steps. That's not true. So, this law, in accordance with the transposed directive, we have internal application, external registration, we have the possibility, therefore public through the media of public disclosure, but the directive has left this, since the directive does not prescribe as prescribed by the EU Regulations that it must be transposed from letter to letter into Croatian national legislation, it stipulates that the objective and purpose to achieve it must be achieved. In the Member State, therefore, in this case, the Republic of Croatia, in which it will achieve this objective. And what I think is a good thing that the applicant here has allowed the applicant of irregularities to have choices, whether he will go on internal reporting, externally or go on public disclosure. Also, nothing prevents a notifier from applying for example to DORH, USKOK, the police, therefore it is not prevented anywhere, it is not said anywhere that this is the order to which the applicant must ić, it is not prescribed anywhere by this law, if you look everywhere in all articles you have or therefore you have the option of choice and you have an alternative. What is also interesting, and that was the introduction when I was speaking in 2019 when this law was passed in HS, today on the left hand side of the pay phone we had a lot of objections that this law was bad. The colleague who spoke on behalf of the SDP Club was, if I'm not mistaken, mentioned the word frustrated, and I asked the question again, okay, but why didn't we do something before you cared so much about protecting applicants of irregularities at the time when you had that possibility, so you didn't do it, this government did it in 2019, and I think this proposal, this step that we're doing not only in terms of harmonising with the European directive, but I think there are further steps that are good and that we should welcome. I also disagreed, I participated in the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution yesterday and today on the Committee on Justice. On all these committees there was also an applicant, and there was also a public defender who herself praised this bill, with 20 remarks which were made by only 3 others, which were not implemented in this bill, but questions are of professional nature, which still breaks the spear of professional nature, I stress the professional nature. Finally, once again, the HDZ Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100670	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Dalia Oreskovic is in front of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club final.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100671	Let's start over, the Honorable Chairman, the MPs and the MPs. Comrade Habib, you said in your final speech that you disagreed with how I explained the provisions of this law, then you actually confirmed everything I said. It is not disputed anywhere that whistles or applicants of irregularities can submit their application directly to USKOK, DORH, the State Inspectorate or whoever is in charge of resolving the criteria of the application, but they could have done so before and beyond this law, they can do so further. And what was done with this law? These new instances have been introduced in accordance with EU directives, and I have been problematicd by what we have obtained. Did we get better whistle protection? We didn't. We only got better records and lists. I see you're nodding your head. Let me explain it to you plastically. Let's imagine that this is a company of companies, HS d.o.o., behind me is the director and members of the administration, and here we will name Sabina Glasovac a trusted person. I'm filing a complaint against some irregularities, e.g. Here's the irregularity: The MPs don't come to controversies. Sabina dear, what are you going to do about that application? You can only forward it further with no authority to solve them essentially. That I don't waste my time seeing that you don't understand and beyond, 3 key problems are not solved by this law, and that's the first one to be considered a whistler because it's not by this new law by Maya Jerek, neither is Adriana Cretila, so the question of the time application of this law. I said by the same system by which we can recognise the status of a new Croatian defender from the Homeland War today in 2022, we can also recognise the status of whistlers based on some application that was filed long ago, that's the first thing. Another thing is free legal aid or free lawyer on the burden of the state budget. And as you can for, for any defendant who's in custody, and there's no money for, for his attorney, the state to pay a lawyer to represent him fairly, so you can do for any whistler and without it, there's simply no fight against corruption. Every fight against corruption starts with someone reporting something. If the application is not as it is now, then that corruption succeeds and, of course, it is not proven when it is not even reported, but that does not mean that it does not exist and that it is not very often naked with the eye visible from the government, hence, it is another thing. And the third thing is what's really alone, the very essence, what's protection, what's the whistler want? Well, he wants to start off without a job. For example. Under the provisions of this law, he can sue in a court of law, so prove that the resignation was illegal, that the consequences of revenge can also be sought by the issuing of a temporary measure and all of this takes a very long time. If we want to step forward then let's make it possible, for example. You're a whistler, you go with that to court, and within eight days, you'll get a temporary measure of your return to your post, and whether your resignation was justified or not will be determined in the course of the proceedings. Here's some kind of system of meaningful effective whistle protection, and we don't have it. We have a law in which we have said here we will have confidential persons who can pass the application on, can't make a metric decision about it, but they have to tire out and build up some kind of administration to keep an eye on the protection of personal data, so it's as if filing a complaint is something conspiracitative, as if it's problematic. So we took the concept of whistle protection as an increase in the ability or number of persons whose application can be submitted instead of strengthening the system and the capacity to solve, solving what the application refers to, and if it is not a confidential person, then it is the attorney general. The same thing, the same thing, the kind of teeth, the power, the kind of tools the attorney general can call out, can indicate, can ask someone nice to follow her recommendations. And as we've seen it in perspective, here's how I'm not going to question the protection of whistles because there's no real practice in that area, but we have an example of a MUP that didn't want to investigate one irregularity, which is an illegal treatment for illegal migrants. So much for protecting whistles. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100672	Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, the respected representative Katarina Peovic will finally speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100673	Here's a little bit, let me sum up what our amendments are and what we're going to go with means according to this law. First of all, what is said by colleague Dalia Oreshkovic would add just one more thing to what she said, which means increasing the address to which an irregularity can be reported is that redundancy that actually gives us doubts about the intention of being the legislator, but I think the simplest thing to say is that the first media that comes to your door or which you knock on your door is literally irrelevant to whom you report an irregularity. It's important that when you report an irregularity, you be protected. And what we refer to here then is only what's most sensitive in that situation, and that's a working relationship. So whoever reported an irregularity must be protected from that kind of persecution and we always had it as a case means that whistles were either blackmailed or fired, and when you got fired, you actually lost your existential living conditions. I mean, it's not some addition to its own existence, it's really its essence. So here are three amendments coming from our side. It is one thing to say in the law to make it impossible for whistles to be fired during the procedure. So that's to be made clear. Another thing, you can't actually give a warning. So a warning, why? Because the notice of termination is a very sensitive instrument, partly due to a very bad Labour Act, or a specific rule in the Labour Act, which does not define a restriction of the notice. So once you get a warning from the employer, that warning is current for your entire working life with that employer and the literally working people can be valued for your entire working life because of some warning he received 20 years ago. She doesn't get old, that's the problem. So it's very important not to manipulate the warnings. And the third thing is to increase the number of workers in percentage means from 20% to 40% of those workers who need to give their consent to the commissioner because 20% especially in smaller companies means subject to employer manipulation, it would be best for all workers to actually decide who the trustee is. Although I say, and inheritably to what is said here, the addresses to which is registered are less important, it is more important to protect the one who reports. There was another note that no employer himself can name that person because actually the employer is always there, which has some benefit and which can be manipulative. So let's go mostly to those amendments, so we got them from the Pomak Association as well as many here in the assembly. In this conversation with whistles we go with their amendments and we also agree that some shifts in this law are visible, but in the most sensitive category, we believe that there is much more to be done. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100674	And finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the MOST, a respected representative, Marin Miletic, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100675	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Reiner, the esteemed state secretary, respected colleagues, my colleagues, there is no Bukarica, for concealing irregularities are not generally responsible for some institutions but in each case responsible are always persons, concrete persons. It cannot be an institution as an institution to blame for something but it is an official person in a particular institution, and then it is especially responsible for the one headed by that institution if he ignores the application for cover-up of irregularities. But the biggest responsibility is, is to individuals in the DORH and the greatest responsibility is to individuals in courts. When these same individuals don't process or delay reports or some proven crime, documented crime to make myself more clear. DORH's turn of head that rarely happens that we have all witnessed here in the Croatian Parliament in our society since reported crime and corruption in state institutions allows certain stakeholders to really exhaust Croatian citizens. We have read those detailed analyses from Brussels and from some other institutions, Croatia loses billions annually for corruption, billions and billions. Then a man wonders where the end is and how much more this land can be robbed. Reporters of irregularities in such a judiciary may not be helped by some of the most perfect Laws on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity. I told the secretary of state this morning, so in one replica, we're sure to see the moves forward here because we see, because we see, but we also see a lot that shouldn't be fixed yet. And if we're talking about individuals, so you've got a corrupt judge, and yet we have experience where the judges of the corrupt end up in the joint, and everything seems to me that some of them, who turns their heads against documents and facts, can do just as well as a corrupt state attorney for some reported irregularity. However, these audit procedures that are very important, which we do not talk about how much we should be able to clear up. So people who report corruption, people who report evil of any kind, nepotism of any kind, we have to protect. And this morning I told the secretary of state, so it's inadmissible that for example. a person works in a state-owned company sees illegal acts, reports illegal acts, then this state-owned company sues him and spends taxpayers' money, our taxpayers' money, and then the man who reported what's wrong is actually fassing because he can't hire some of the best lawyer to defend him who would fight for his rights. So, as a state, we have to do much more to sensitize the public, to explain to the citizens that they are no different when they report corruption and all that is wrong than they are the Guardians, they are guards, then they are those who protect Croatian society and ultimately they invest directly in the future of their children of this country, because as long as it is acceptable to steal, subtract, through some cards to come to a position they will not be able to do us any good, and we are a country that has huge potential, which is beautiful, which can really grow into a good, good oasis for life.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100676	So I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We will now go to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law amending the Act implementing Regulation No. 1829/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 June 2003 on genetically modified food and feed for animals and Regulation (EC) No 1830/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2003 on the traceability and labelling of genetically modified organisms and traceability of food and feed produced from genetically modified organisms amending and supplementing Directive 2001/18/EC, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 257. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Željko Plazonić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100914	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Honorable MPs and MPs. The draft law has a pretty big title, so I would not repeat it again, but what is important is that this legislative proposal aligns the existing law in question with the latest EU legislation and with the provisions of Article. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The transposition of the provisions of Regulation of 2019/1381 will provide for a more transparent, continuous and inclusive notification of the risk throughout the process of assessing food risk, namely genetically modified food and food for animals, including persons assessing risk and persons managing at national and Union level. Because of that Member State, the EU is obliged to bring its national legislation into line with the provisions of this new Regulation. In addition to harmonising the existing law with the EU laws in question, this legislative proposal changes the very name of the existing law, and since it is very large, I would not read it again, the unique methodological nomotechnical rules for the making of the acts have been adopted by the HS and it is written in the NN No. 74 and 15 for this particular complex name of the law itself. The proposed legislative proposal provides for a clear, continuous and credible risk notification in the process of approving genetically modified food and feed for animals, with a view to protecting human, animal, plant and environmental health and the interests of consumers. The present proposal amends the provisions of the applicable law in order to comply with the internal structure of the State Inspectorate under the Internal Design Regulation of the State Inspectorate itself. Infringement provisions shall also be laid down in accordance with the type of infringements relating to the placing on the market of GMOs intended for the use of food or feed without authorisation and if the conditions of EU Parliament and Council Regulation 1829/2003 on genetically modified food and feed for animals and the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1830 also have not been met since 2003. on the traceability and labelling of GMOs and traceability of food, animal feed from GMOs. The scope of the infringements of 5-15.000 kuna and allows authorities responsible for carrying out official controls, punishing a person responsible in a legal person or a natural person in accordance with the type of infringements with a legal or natural person’s credit rating as well as with the provisions of a special law governing the area of food and feed for animals. In line with the above, it is proposed to adopt this law because the legislative proposal in question will ensure that what is most important in the applicable legislation of the Republic of Croatia is brought into line with EU legislation and thus ensure that the amended provisions are applied directly in accordance with the said regulation. It shall ensure uniform treatment for all stakeholders in the process of authorisation of GM food and feed for animals, with particular emphasis on the notification segment on the risk analysis process and the transparency of data when approving food. Public proactive and easily accessible access to all scientific data and information supporting the requirements for approval on the basis of EU law as well as other requirements for the provision of scientific results, at the earliest stage of the risk assessment relating to the application or notification procedure, i.e. applications for the authorisation of GM food or feed, extension of GM food authorisation for already authorised genetically modified food. It will also strengthen citizens' trust not only in the health level of food but also in the credibility of scientific data and studies that are now the applicants of the industry, the industry. The competent authorities and all institutions responsible for forming an opinion on food safety or decisions taken in connection with the granting of authorisation or new authorisation of genetically modified food or such same feed for animals. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100915	Thank you, we have more replicas, she is the first respected representative of Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100916	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, this amendment to the law does not seem to be complicated and the matter is relatively simple, we need to comply with the EU regulation, but the topic is particularly important for us users, or for our citizens. My question would refer to the number of laboratories, as far as we have an official laboratory for GMOs in the Republic of Croatia. The last piece of information I have is two, but here's what you're gonna tell me. What's the equipment, the personnel team, and what's the last two years of analysis they've done, if there's any irregularities, I've found data for the previous years, but please here for the last two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100917	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100918	Your data on how much data we have is completely accurate. These are laboratories that have specific methods to determine genetically modified organisms within that food. As far as I know, we do not have registered products in Croatia with a higher content of 0.9%, which is very important, which then falls within the domain of so-called. Technological contamination. The most important thing is how often these tests are conducted, and inspection controls, and I think we have a very good frequency of testing these ingredients. So we can be sure on that side because we really haven't had more than 0.9% determined so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100919	Dear Representative Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100920	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, so here we see this in the law there will be official controls carried out by sanitary inspectors, veterinary inspectors, agricultural inspectors. Of course, industry will issue its certificates or declarations on the product. My question is similar to that of a colleague, I actually wanted to see what institutions there are, or how many of these laboratories in Croatia that can control it in some way and give data that will be 100% safe or controlled by industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100921	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100922	So I think the answer is practically identical. What is important for the implementation of official controls in the area of food and genetically modified food is the competent sanitary inspection, veterinary and agricultural inspection. Each of them is in charge and has its own responsibilities under those legal regulations that are not passed. So if we look at these ongoing inspection services that do this, I think that's quite enough for our market to be covered by most of the inspection surveillance that's far, far the most important. It's not how many labs work, it's how well he's equipped to determine what the lab needs to be, and you're determined. You know, you could have 50 of them so if none of them weren't right, you could have 1 so it's worth what these 50 are.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100923	Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100924	Thank you very much, Vice President. State secrets, the evolution of general food regulations, and thus on genetically modified food, have shown that the risk analysis segment relating to food risk notification is insufficiently transparent and effective so that consumers have a negative confidence in the analysis. I'm asking you to tell us if this... The fact that in the process of approving genetically modified food studies is based on analyses from industry, so I ask your opinion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100925	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100926	I don't think that's true. The industry can't order analysis because it would eat lunch with itself, then I'd say the basic work of inspection controls. So I repeat, we do not have registered products in Croatia with genetically modified food greater than 0.9%, which falls at the so-called level. Technological contamination. Therefore, we do not need to be afraid and we do not need to intimidate our citizens with something de facto on our markets right now that exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100927	Honorable representative Sablar Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100928	Thank you, Vice President. If we are a GMO free country we should be, but therefore warns us Darko, Dr. Darko Knowor that more than 50% of the world's livestock food is produced from GMOs and now there's an important traceability of food or whether your colleague is air-conditioned, whether we are protected really means from field to table because if cattle have consumed such foods, is it really GMOs free and can we consider GMOs free if for example. We import I know that we don't produce such livestock food but in America we produce, so some of the products that we import from there are possible to be contaminated and significantly more than these 0.9%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100929	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100930	Well, now that's what I'd say is pure theoretical consideration. We can know for now that 84 products are genetically modified forms allowed in the EU and if you want here I knew you'd ask me such a question, so I prepared, 39 are genetically modified corn seeds, 24 soybeans, 14 cotton, 6 oily tails and one sugar tail. The problem is, the important thing is that we do not import it in Croatia so that we should feed our animals, so it is a fear that our animals would feed on GMOs practically nothing. Therefore, our goal is to continue as a genetically free country or a genetically free country that has legally prescribed it to itself, with these policies that we have so far, so if it should be someone who is the greatest fighter against genetically modified forms, it's me personally, so I would never allow myself to declare something that isn't out of my mind I would say basic human and professional principles.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100931	Thank you. Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100932	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, this is my second assembly of parliaments in which I am a member, if I recall not once we have liberalized the GMO regime when we've passed any regulation than we've always been, but there's always been a huge amount of misunderstanding among citizens and citizens about this. So let's say in the last term when we thought we were very similar to narrowing down some norms and actually narrowing down the space for GMOs in Croatia, then those of us who voted in favour, characterised the proposal as Monsant rats, for example, so where am I going with this. Is there some kind of campaign, for example? Raising awareness of what is really happening, so how do we regulate GMOs and bring citizens closer to what we are actually doing, so to protect them, and not to further expose them, so is there any campaign to bring citizens closer to even regulatory?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100933	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100934	Now, if there's a campaign as a campaign, I can't say for sure, but there's inspection surveillance that's just saying that our products say are maximum proven with 0.9% of the ingredients of any GMOs that mean sometimes technological contamination, so I think that we're one of the countries that can be freely said to belong to that safe structure of countries that are free from genetically modified forms, regardless of whether it's for human use or for the use of animals, and this is how people use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100935	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100936	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100937	You can sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100938	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100939	No, I don't. Thank you. Then I open the debate and the first one on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Mosta will speak to the esteemed representative Marin Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100940	Dear Vice-President HS Mr. Reiner, dear colleagues, respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So we definitely welcome every law and every regulation of the EU and of the European Parliament that goes in any way towards preserving the protection of the health of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and at the end of the protection of our agriculture and agricultural crops and all that comes from the country and that's the story from country to table. It is unusual for us, yesterday we had two important Laws on Agriculture in HS, we discussed it all day long and pointed out to the Croatian public how important it is for Croatia to be self-sufficient or to go towards self-sufficiency and to see that in these times of crisis, we live in such intermittent times that are very demanding, how important it is for us as a small state to be energy independent as much as we can, of course, have our own food and water not poisoned. Yesterday we were talking about the famous Monsanto, and that, I was talking about here in the assembly how they paid over $10 billion, over $10 billion in a deal just so they don't finish the lawsuits in the U.S. and I said, and I'm going to repeat "repeated the sixth mother studiorum," so there's no man on the globe who would give someone a thousand euros, especially if he's honest if he's not guilty of anything, but if you have a mall over your head and if you're afraid it's gonna be realized then you're paying whether, and that's what did that famous Monsanto. Also, this GMO corn of the American corporation and recently taken over by Bayer, we know that he took it, in Europe is growing how much information I have and what I managed to Google, to be honest, he needed my Miro Bulj with me, but he had to go to Sinj, talk about it, so it's only produced in Spain, it's only produced in Spain so that we can be certain there. As far as I understand from the EU documents, let's say very rigorously for the GMO story and for all these products that then, through GMOs and plants, therefore enter our countries, into our system, into our society, and therefore I commend it. What, again important to me, may point out that geopolitical tensions and growing competition over climate-friendly raw materials threaten our whole story of green transition, and we can also encourage the green transition of course with these laws that we bring about protection, about genetically modified food and food for animals with various regulations and everything else. I'd also like to put an emphasis on something that we're going to talk about here today, which is therefore industrial hemp, industrial, industrial reference, therefore because I don't know how much citizens know that this is one of the most sustainable building materials on earth. Otherwise, it has also been promoted as a material of the future. New technologies that make hemp suitable for industrial paper production useful as well as renewable energy sources biofuel hemp derivatives as substitutes for petrochemical products. So we're not going to go too far from history right now, we're going to talk about the present. Conopljin concrete, development in France in the mid-80s when people experimented to find an adequate substitute for a decaying structure in medieval wooden frames. What is important to us here today to open up debates and to say why hemp is as important as the plant of the future instead of cotton, for example, instead of cutting trees, it grows as easily as weeds, it does not need irrigation, the use of pesticides, it takes up little space. It produces more ha-trees and it's completely biodegradable. At an annual level of 1 ha hemp, so much paper is produced as from two to four hectares of trees, from paper towels to cardboard. All types of paper products may be produced from industrial hemp. The quality of paper than hemp is better than wood-based paper. The rope paper lasts a hundred years without decomposition, can be recycled many times over. Instead of plastic, we used to talk about how much the mountains are poisoning us. We were talking about pesticides yesterday. Once a year, they're shopping, and we said, and that's what the secretary of state said yesterday, that it's true, that it needs to be speeded up, solved. Once a year, these dangerous wastes are collected, so from pesticides, and as far as I can tell from that plastic, our entire environment is being disrupted. The rope can be used to produce strong, durable and eco-acceptable substitutes for plastics. A thousand products made of oil-based plastic can be produced from hemp-based composites. Now watch this, not only neutral but also negative CO2. The tavern can clean up the atmosphere, contribute to the protection of the environment, and also neutralize the damage that has been done. So any part of that plant can be used. The stem is made of textiles, canvas, rope. Its wooden core is used for paper, construction, animal support. Seeds contain protein, fibers, omega 3 fatty acids and other ingredients. It's a fast-growing thing. So it takes years for our trees to grow, and on the other hand the hemp is ready for harvesting 4 months after sowing. It can grow on most of the land suitable for cultivation, while forests and trees farms require large areas. It's healthy material. And we at the MOST Club want to encourage a debate on this subject in view of all the green policies that we have and that are being implemented and we think that all topics should be discussed very clearly and openly. And we think the biggest problem is not talking. At the end of what I also want to put a very big emphasis on once again, the EU has helped us to make many regulations and many laws, and we have talked about it as a classroom that makes children better. And it doesn't have to be necessarily bad. It's just that sometimes we say better than never. Is it as much as we'd like it to be so much faster, faster? Here we talked yesterday about these pesticides in 2002, and in 2009 fully with this directive and on 11 December 2019, they brought in a green new deal and, as part of this green new deal, which is a comprehensive story, we also have a story about environmental protection, our health in general agriculture, and then also about the use of pesticides. And that's why we here at the MOST Club think it's very important that our country, now primarily ruling because you have this legitimacy and you run our country. So the people gave it to you. To go towards agriculture without GMOs, so to encourage our small producers to produce, to prevent as much as possible with prices and so on. I don't know what it's like here there's a colleague who's been in agriculture a lot, all his life, so I'd like to hear them later. I think that, I watched the French once arrange that story, they just raised prices for imported fruit and vegetables, and they let those trucks wait and suddenly it didn't suit anyone to import there because they kept their production, their small producers. So there are mechanisms through which the state can certainly take more care of its citizens, small producers, farmers because you know what? Somehow they say psychologists that, that a man can love another if he loves himself. And that it's a prerequisite for a quality relationship, a serious quality, some normal relationship that you love yourself for who you are with your flaws, with values and with your talents but to accept yourself. And psychologists say he can't make a relationship quality to someone else who doesn't love himself. And if we can use that analogy at country level, so we must first love our citizens, our people, our country, guard our borders, watch out for our farmers, watch out for our small producers. And of course that doesn't mean that I don't like the French, the Spanish, God bless them all, our neighbours in Bosnia and Herzegovina, anywhere, therefore Hungarian, may God save them all. But to me it must primarily be my people first, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so our people. That's kind of logical. So please, here's maybe some essayist but I can't get away from my habitat. So do whatever you can to keep the Secretary of State so that the food that comes to our citizens' shelves is healthy, without this poison and without any early preparations that harm us in any way. And then all of you together, there are many ruling people here who are very professional and you talked about doing everything you can to encourage our production and that Croatia is going towards its self-sufficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100941	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, he will now speak to the esteemed representative of Renata Sablar-Dračevac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100942	... A secretary with an associate and certainly co-workers and colleagues. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Here's what I'd like to add to what an earlier representative from the Most told us that he forgot that hemp is highly recovered from the ground. So it takes every once in a while to clean up the pollution of toxins and pesticides to plant hemp. But it's not today's subject, so we'll be back, so on the subject. The proposed law will ensure transparent, continuous and credible risk notification throughout the risk analysis among all stakeholders in the process of approving genetically modified food and feed for the purpose of protecting health, human, animal, plant, environment or consumer interest. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget. Subject law of the proposal shall comply with the regulations on the internal organisation of the State Inspectorate and relating to the names of the competent inspectors. The proposed law lays down infringement provisions, i.e. they are classified in a group with the type of infringements relating to the placing on the market of genetically modified food and the range of infringements ranging from 5-15.000 kuna and allows authorities responsible for carrying out official controls on the punishment of the responsible person. Therefore, official controls are carried out on an annual basis between 250 and 300 samples of food for people by the State Inspectorate. I have to admit that it seems to me quite a small number of these controls and on the board when we discussed it one of the outside board members wondered if it might increase and whether a larger number of these four which, four laboratories... two private, two states, two, two, so four laboratories are doing these checks, and now that almost all public health services due to covid have seen a serious change, or PCR can be done, so I don't know how much this might help. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All products with 0,9 % and more GMOs must have a declaration while the quantity of less than 0,9 is considered technological contamination and therefore does not have to be marked. It is the only regulation for GMO markings in the Republic of Croatia. Since 2015, with 19 other EU members, Croatia has declared itself a country prohibiting the cultivation of genetically modified plants in all counties and some have already declared GMOs free of counties. When we talk about GMOs, we have a mostly negative view, especially when it comes to such food, but all insulin-dependent diabetes patients use genetically modified insulin. Namely, this insulin produces escherichia coli, which is a human gene for insulin production. Our children are vaccinated with hepatitis B vaccine produced by the genetic engineering process. In experiments, genetically modified mice are used as models for research into cancer, obesity, heart disease, blood vessels. The possibility of using genetic engineering in medicine has great potential, for example by using this technology, we could replace genes related to some serious diseases. GMOs can be defined as organisms in which their genetic material has been changed in a way that does not occur in nature. This technology is also called genetic technology recombinant DNA technology or genetic engineering. This possibility of transferring certain genes from one organism to another, even among very different kinds of organisms. Such a method in the world is used to produce genetically modified plants that are then grown for human consumption. Genetically modified food has its advantage over conventional organic food, primarily lower prices, longer product life or higher nutritional value. However, the basic reason why genetically modified food began to be produced was a greater ability to resist pests and various plant diseases, thus reducing the use of pesticides. A total of 16 genetically modified cultures are known, so they are corn, soybeans, cotton, oiled rape, tomatoes, potatoes, sugar beet, rice, wheat, carnations, pumpkins, tobacco, chicory, flax, melon and papaya. On almost all surfaces are grown genetically modified food 60% of these cultures are just soybeans and slightly less represented corn, cotton and rape oil. Safety assessments of genetically modified foods include direct health effects, whether toxic, the possibility of causing allergic reactions, specific substances that may have nutritional or toxic properties, the stability of the ingested gene are nutritional effects associated with genetic modifications and other undesirable effects that may occur due to the ingested gene. What could pose a danger to human health? Allergenicity, in practice, is not recommended to transfer genes from food that causes allergies. Unless it is proven that the protein produced from the gene is not an allergen, all genetically modified food is tested for allergenicity according to the World Health Organization protocols and the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation. No genetically modified allergen food has been found to date. It's a gene transfer. The problem could be to transfer genes from GMOs to human cells or bacteria found in human intestines. For example, transfer for resistance to antibiotics that could cause an additional major problem. Although it is likely that a small World Health Organization and the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization are experts suggest that antibiotics resistance genes are not used at all. Crossing. Crossing refers to the transmission of genes, genetically modified foods, other crops or other plants. In addition to crossing and only mixing genetically modified food in the fields, conventional food may result in food safety. This risk is realistic, because in the United States, it has been proven that there has been a mixing of corn that has been authorised only for human feed animals with corn. Possible dangers that worry are the possibility of the escape of a modified gene in nature. Survival of modified gene after seeding sensitively useful insects to the gene product, and reduction of biodiversity. Every genetically modified food should be assessed separately. The genetically modified food currently found on markets in the world has passed a risk assessment and is unlikely to pose a risk to human health. Furthermore, in countries where GMOs are sold there is no evidence of a negative impact on health. All genetically modified food on the world market is produced to satisfy one of three conditions. It is a resistance to insecticide damage I've wasted my time? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Okay. So we agree that we should control, so Okay. [[/Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100943	It's a good thing you're getting along. Thank you. The next one will be the SDP Representatives' Club and will be spoken by a respected representative, Andreja Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100944	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. As I said and in the replica, it is a relatively simple law which actually ensures implementation of the new EU Regulation 2019/1381, which partially amends Regulation No. 1829/2003 so it's all not complicated for us and it's acceptable for us. I suppose, however, because of the importance of the subject, talk about everything related to the concept of GMOs. Why was all this brought together? Due to the different rules on transparency of risk assessment and confidentiality of data set out in the food legislation. In this Regulation, the provisions of all food legislation relating to transparency and sustainability of risk assessment with a focus on the provisions relating to food risk notification with a particular emphasis on genetically modified food and feed. For this reason, the EU Member State is obliged to comply with its national legislation with the provisions of EU Regulation 2019/1381 which will ensure transparent, continuous and inclusive risk notification throughout the risk assessment process among all stakeholders in the process of approving genetically modified food and feed for animals. The law in question provides for coordination in the internal structure of the State Inspectorate, so this is where sanitary inspectors, veterinary inspectors, agricultural inspectors are defined. In the old law, there were food quality inspectors. Furthermore, the amount of fines for actions that are opposed to the provisions of this law are changed. So, now this article 5 shows that the penalties that are originally reduced to 5,000 to 10,000 kuna, i.e. 5000 to 15000 kuna, and for a legal and physical person were before 1,000 kunas, and now two and a half thousand kuna are defined as legal persons, and for a natural person, 1500 kuna. Why all these changes? Because it has been seen that current ways of notification of food risk are insufficiently effective and transparent and then affecting the consumer's negative confidence in the outcome of the process, food risk analysis, and in particular in the mentioned segment of genetically modified food and feed. It's also important to mention the lab question once again, so we said two are state-owned, two are private. So the question is equipment, personnel teams, analysis numbers. Here's the secretary of state who couldn't tell me for the last two years. I came across the 2015 data where there were 180 sample analyses in the monitoring and 7 samples found a GMO level, but below that allowed 0.9%. We discussed on the board, of course, this law in question and there were some thoughts that more PSR diagnostics would be used if possible in laboratories that were professionally and technically capacitated for its implementation. Now here are a few words about GMO products when placed on the market they must according to their analytical parameters, by composition they must be equal to the same product that is not genetically modified. And what should we investigate before that? How toxic is this product? Whether it has allergen properties, whether it has anti-nutrition properties, whether there are possible environmental consequences and actually whether genetically modified food is safe. In any case, what is detected as a series of advantages of GMO food is that crops are more resistant to disease, lower exposure of agricultural workers to insecticides. On the same surface, a larger amount of crops can be grown, which is important since the human population is rapidly growing. The harvested crops have an improved appearance and taste, it is fast-plating seeds, loss of thorns and thorns on crops. That's what the waist says, and so are the shortcomings and possible problems. So reduced biodiversity. Then the transmission of genes, the escape of a unified gene in nature, the sensitivity of useful insects, such as bees, the occurrence of allergies in humans, the occurrence of tumours in humans, the transfer of genes from modified plants to humans, the transfer of resistance to individual antibiotics from GM food to humans, and already mention the harmful environmental impact. However, in any case these products of genetically modified organisms include different proteins, smart medicines, hormones, vaccines that we generally accept without greater criticism, are used in medicine, pharmacology. But when we talk about genetically modified food and human nutrition, then in some countries, especially in Europe, there are huge resistances and criticisms, quite different from in America. But in any case, a number of scientific papers that have been done on the subject of a possible risk of eating GM food for human health. They also show that the World Health Organization has taken the view that there is no evidence that genetically modified food is more dangerous to human health than conventional. Acceptance of genetically modified food as I said differs between states. However, the criteria in Europe are a little stricter than in America. We brought more in Croatia in 2003 and defined in the law regulation of GMOO that food containing less than 0.9% is considered pollution and then it is not necessary to indicate that it is genetically modified. If the proportion is greater than 0.9% on the product, it should be indicated that it contains GMOs. Here we have already heard where we actually all use products that contain or produce genetically modified organisms of human recombinant insulin, hepatitis B vaccines, glucagon, thyrotropin, blood clotting factors and other preparations for the treatment of various diseases. And this is accepted in principle in public, but obviously the public will need to give a little bit more information about all scientific research that refutes the spread of false information, because those scientific research that have been carried out correctly shows that genetically modified plants that are just to satisfy the rigorous, i.e. to satisfy the placing on the market and acceptance must pass the rigorous testing criteria, so that in any case, even more needs to be done at the education of citizens and public information. Furthermore, it should certainly be pointed out that a large number of scientific research has been carried out even over 2000, according to the data I cited and most of these studies 58.3% are independently funded and carried out by researchers who have no connection with the companies involved in the development of GMOs. What is the situation in the Republic of Croatia? With us entering the EU, of course, that the market is expanding, and it is even more likely that we can get products that contain larger amounts of GM. However, we have been systematically following this since 2007 according to the data I encountered and says no case of any adverse impact of GMOs on health has been reported. However, regardless of which, the European Food Agency continues to insist that further research is being done, that allergic assessment tests are being carried out so that certain genetically modified products are certainly prohibited on the European market, and that according to our regulation certain products can be placed on the market but I say up to a certain level of 0.9% and that cultivation itself is not allowed. It is certainly necessary to highlight the issue of GMOs free of charge which for now in Croatia have Cekin fresh chicken and Windia's cattle food factory Blagodar. As for any additional information in our country, it is very important to take care of the traceability of food, so from farm to table. As we Croatia is a tourist country, it is important to label GMOs free food to ensure that our consumers are safe about what they consume. And in any case, we should advise our consumers to read certificates carefully, but of course they try to consume as much as possible that food that has been grown in an environmentally acceptable way. Consumers therefore have the right to choose, clear declarations and full information, and here we hope that this harmonisation with the EU regulation will also contribute to making all soup feel safer in the consumption of GM food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100945	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the honourable representative Ivan Kirin will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100946	... I only have a small comment on the lecture if you remember the honourable representative Miletic, quoted from the Scriptures: “You must love your neighbor as yourself. ” [[Specially enabled.]] You know he devoted a part of his time to it. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 4(4) of the first Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This legislative proposal harmonises the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation and gives its statement of compliance with the EU acquis. Genetically modified organisms are any organism whose genetic material has been altered using genetic engineering techniques. The precise definition of genetic engineering varies but most often refers to the intentional change of the organism in a way that does not occur by reproduction or spontaneous recombination in nature. The man genetically modified a large number of species from bacteria and viruses to plants and animals. In Croatia it is prohibited to grow genetically modified plants, but it is allowed to import and sell products that have less than 0.9% of GMOs as well as imports of livestock. About 35 million tonnes of GM soybeans are imported to Croatia and the EU annually. However, meat and milk products from animals fed to GM crops must be declared for this reason we do not know the traceability of meat, milk and meat products we eat. This is about the necessity of the traceability of the product from farm to table, or it will show us whether anything is GMO free or not. Only products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified rapes, soybeans, corn and cotton must be placed on the market, and shall not be indicated to contain GMOs if its share in the product does not exceed 0,9%. This limit of 0.9% is set by EU rules. That figure doesn't have a foothold in scientific research. It is fictional and a kind of compromise between GMOs and regulatory bodies. Sanitary inspection in Croatia annually determines about 10 to 20% of products with GMOs, but below 0.9%. The law implementing Regulation 1829 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2003 genetically modified, genetically modified food and feed and Regulation 1830 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2003 on the traceability and labelling of genetically modified organisms and traceability of food and feed produced from genetically modified organisms amending and supplementing Directive No 18 2001. The law came into force with us on 1 July 2013 on the day of Croatia's entry into the EU. The law lays down the competent authority and tasks of the competent authority in the implementation of the said Regulation. In the meantime, a new Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on transparency and sustainability, an assessment of the EU's risks in the food chain and amending the 2002 regulations, '03, was adopted. And '04, '08, '09, '15. This Directive is addressed to the Member States. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 11, 17, 18, 23, 23, 29 and 30. Regulation (EC) No 1829, therefore, in 2003. In view of that Member State, the EU is obliged to bring its national legislation in line with, legislation with the 2019 regulations to ensure transparent, continuous and non-discriminatory risk notification throughout the risk assessment process involving persons assessing risk and persons managing risk at EU and national level. The evaluation of general food regulations and rules on genetically modified food has shown that a segmental risk analysis relating to food risk notification is insufficiently effective and transparent, affecting consumer negative confidence and the outcome of the food risk analysis process, in particular in assessing the safety of genetically modified food and feed. In particular, there is a particular concern in the public about the fact that the assessment of the food safety of the European Food Safety Authority in the area of the authorisation of genetically modified food is based primarily on studies commissioned by industry, regardless of the fact that there is a burden on industry itself to demonstrate compliance with EU requirements, including in the section of approval of genetically modified food and feed for animals. Therefore, Regulation 1381 2019, which will unify the provisions of all food legislation relating to transparency and sustainability, is an assessment of the risk with an emphasis on the provisions relating to food risk notification with a particular emphasis on genetically modified food and feed. The subject-matter of the legislative proposal shall be brought into line with the Internal Design Regulation of the State Inspectorate. The proposed law shall lay down infringement provisions or shall be classified in accordance with the type of infringements relating to the placing on the market of genetically modified organisms intended for use in food or genetically modified food and feed but without penalties shall leave where they are not authorised, although the conditions of Regulations Nos 1889 and 1830 have not been met. Official controls on the implementation of Regulations 1829, 1830 and this law shall be carried out by sanitary inspectors, veterinary inspectors, State inspectors in accordance with the rules governing the work and powers of the State Inspectorate and the regulations governing the handling of genetically modified organisms and the rules governing food. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget. So the HDZ Club supports the bill. Thank you for your attention and may the good Lord keep you safe.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100947	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Sandra Bancic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100948	I thank the chairman. We in the green-left block approach this topic in a context, a broader context of actually food policy, a policy which unfortunately the Republic of Croatia doesn't actually have yet. We have a agricultural policy, we have many other strategies and policies but we don't actually have a clear strategy on food policy. For us, good food and access to good food is right, human right, everyone's right. We advocate shorter food chains that connect consumers and producers to fair, therefore, fair trade-based partnerships. High quality standards for us must apply to everything we eat and drink, so we want to be sure that every consumer knows exactly all the ingredients as well as the traceability of the products he buys. Our current agriculture and food production, now I am not just talking about Croatia, but at EU level, everything is just not sustainable. They are based on intensive food production leading to monocultural production, soil degradation and land pollution, groundwater pollution and species extinction. Croatia is no exception in that. Once an extremely fertile Slavonic soil that has been subject to monocultural production for years and decades today loses every quality and potentially leaves us without the highest quality agricultural land because of it. There is also unnecessary damage to animals that in such intensive industrially based production are treated all, as anything but human beings, living beings are pardoned. Geneticly modified organisms and extensive use of pesticides are recognised as a threat to both health and the environment, so we oppose intensive agriculture because it harms both the Croatian and European environmental systems and biodiversity as such. Our problem with genetically modified organisms isn't just health and environmental domains. It relates primarily to the model, the economic model on which such production actually rests. The fact that by introducing what is not happening to us, but by introducing the possibility of producing genetically modified organisms, there is, in fact, a monopolies position and a dependent position of farmers towards those who supply them with such a type of seed but also a dependence on all other additives that are used then in such agricultural production. In doing so, farmers, therefore, people who deal with agricultural production lose all aspects of their activities and roles in the preservation of rural space and are actually co-operatives of such monopolies. We have seen what this has had to do with agriculture, for example, in, and small farmers in the United States, and of course we are absolutely opposed to that happening on European soil in any country. We support all those measures, which are used for the protection and sustainable use of vital natural resources, and we believe that right now it is time for a healthier and more sustainable way of producing food and dealing with the natural resources that we have. The biggest challenge facing farmers in Europe and beyond now is to provide sufficient and safe food in an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable way. We must note that future agricultural, agriculture will also play a key role in the sustainable management of global biomass supplies, but it can also give us an efficient exit from a fossil-based economy. If we accepted all these challenges then we would have to reverse the current dominant trend of industrialization and intensification that had driven the already mass of small farmers out of their business, but also caused unprecedented degradation of the environment. This is why all the green parties advocate to change the paradigm in the agricultural sector according to sustainable agriculture as a rule. And we don't accept at all the arguments that it's actually intensive agriculture and then some arguments about using GMOs as solutions for food safety. So, not to accept them, but to believe that they are precisely the cause of food uncertainty, but also the uncertainty of those who participate in the entire production chain. We also believe that we need to overcome or reverse the actual way in which we use innovations in the area of food production and move away from that usual way of industrial cultivation and GMOs towards non-otraditional food systems. So what we're looking at right now is that biogenetic research in agriculture often goes to the heart of research into other agricultural approaches such as agroecology despite having proven multiple advantages. Examples of innovative solutions can go from biomimetics to permakculture, agro-ecology, urban agriculture, agro-suming and all other forms that rest on local partnerships and which are on the rise because they are now combining sustainable food production, conservation of ecosystems and biodiversity. So our understanding of innovation goes beyond the technological dimension of innovation and we must not only attach ourselves to this technological dimension but we must imagine new ways of production and consumption and new economic opportunities for farmers and rural players as well as new yields between urban and rural areas. In these new relations between rural and urban areas in Croatia, we see the place precisely for green public procurement as a key lever in fact the establishment of partnerships between urban and rural areas. What does that mean exactly? This means that we in our cities and this is what our programme is and for the City of Zagreb, we need to go to public institutions, which supply food and drink to introduce green public procurement with a criteria of proximity and shortness of transport to ensure that from urban areas within 70-90 km rural areas they have their primary market in these urban areas. In this way we give a direct market to small producers, for this we need infrastructure which is now ultimately planned in the NPO, so we need centres to buy fruit and vegetables so that we can actually have enough quantities that then supply these cities, but also change the way that food is supplied. Therefore, it can no longer be the criterion of the cheapest bidder or the lowest price, but the criterion must have these elements and the proximity and the shortness of the chain, but also certain ecological aspects. What is particularly important to us is that Croatia develops its own food policy. For the time being, we only have dotted procedures in the regulation which comes down to the introduction of standards and eu directives and regulations. But we don't really know what our food policy is, the way we produce, the level of quality, supply and supply chains, food price policies, the ecological dimensions of food production, food waste management, etc. We also talked here recently, and we consider that one of the key problems is the issue of agricultural land management. So, large parts of the highest quality agricultural land are leased to some of the ten largest agricultural producers in Croatia and today we witness that concessions on water and agricultural land given to Agrokor are now actually owned by the majority of Russian banks that sell their shares. We know that the participation in Fortenova also increases the first gas company, therefore, the basic energy company that is also said to buy Fortenova and again the land that is, for example, Belja and Vupika, can end up with someone who is the exclusive representative of Gazprom for Croatia. So much for our agricultural land management. Also, the fact that agricultural land is not awarded through local self-government in competitions to those who actually produce and place quality products on the market is already suitable for those who are either party or otherwise. to prove that there is no clear and transparent food policy in Croatia. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100949	Thank you. We are now going to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100950	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I have the impression that I see the same faces all the time in the last few days, so for some I have the impression that they've been sleeping maybe the same, but that's the moment I guess. Croatia as I said in the Replica, Croatia has not liberalised the GMO regime until now, but we have only stressed it, and I am very glad that some of the political options that have previously voted against such service, just because the title says GMOs, and then we are against whatever it says inside, I am glad that they have obviously started reading the texts of the proposal, so today we can hear some different messages from this place. The problems with GMOs can be classified in several categories, on one side and this will not be a comprehensive list at all, but they would be the most important monopoly on what my colleague Sandra Banečić was talking about, and then there is Monsanto and a similar few very limited number of producers, actually creating a producer’s addiction to them. There is also a problem of glyphosate which we have talked a lot about here in the assembly and their effect on health, but the health effect of various supplements that are also used in production and of course there is a huge problem and a devastating effect on biodiversity and the environment. A few years ago, I was in Iowa on a scholarship, and then they took us to a big farm. Iowa normally produces 20% of the corn in the U.S. and they took us to that farm that was huge, I mean for our concepts really huge. Let's say in Slavonia and Srijem you'll see mostly small economies, small areas of the country where it is produced familyly, it was I who had the impression that there was no end, so wherever you look, it's this one and the same farm, and they produced a father and son with a good mechanization they produced corn like very often in the United States, some soybeans had 150 head of cattle, they were actually automotive, it was their message. I asked them well what you're doing with, if you have a market for it, whether it's for food or if it's for something else. Then they told me that actually the corn they produce is going for fuel, they have, that is, fuel supplements. But that's exactly what we had a moment ago to listen to in our debate on behalf of the club. So Iowa has one of the most polluted, polluted soils in the United States. So the huge proportion of corn production is the production of pollution for Mississippi, so what comes and their soil becomes almost completely unusable. So there's a permanent, scary actually damage to the environment and actually that experience of looking at it firsthand I have to admit it was very, very educational. Therefore, it is very good that, to be involved in the labelling and traceability of products used in food, both for humans and for cattle, or for animals. I think it's something that we should work on even more not only, so first of all, I think it's an executive obligation, but so are we here. So, when we vote on regulations for GMOs, I think it's very important that we bring citizens and citizens closer to what we actually do because we've had the opportunity to hear so we have inspections, and as the secretary of state said nowhere in Croatia we won't find more than 0.9% of GMOs in products, but there are still a number of conspiracy theories, and I think that, let's say very often we'll get those e-mails, you've certainly been getting them, hundreds of emails when this kind of thing is being voted on, I think that's just saying that we have to have a more active relationship with, and that we have to explain to the citizens much better what we're actually doing. Finally, I can say that, I think the food policy has always been very important, but if it has ever been, there was a time to realize how important it is then in the situation of this war with Ukraine where much of Europe is dependent on food products of cereals, potatoes, olives from Ukraine and Russia, and I think it clearly tells us that we must work to increase self-sufficiency through local, ecological production, short supply chains, it is a great opportunity for Croatia, and I think that we really, really need to take advantage of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100951	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100952	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Glavasevic's debate somehow focused more on agricultural production, which is related to prices. We know that the Croatian country is free from genetically modified organisms. In Croatia, it is forbidden to release genetically modified seeds even for experimental purposes into the environment, which means that such seeds should not be on the market and we can then produce such food. I asked for the State Inspectorate's report to confirm that what I'm saying is true and so is the State Inspectorate for 2020 when I asked for the first report and now and for 2021, I confirmed that in all the samples of seeds they've been carrying out, there was no comment on GMOs, which I think is very good, that it's good that our laboratories are doing the job they've been entrusted with. But what I think, too, is that they should be additionally capacitated, provided with financial resources, given the equipment, because they analyze, besides seeds, food that comes from other markets and livestock, and we also need to make sure that it is all adequate quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100953	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100954	Yeah, I can absolutely agree with you about what you said, it's good for our labs to follow that. I mean, even though it's not our topic here today, I don't think we've touched that in a few previous discussions, for example. Some medicines also exist, some medicines that are not produced in Croatia, but are produced in other EU countries that may be a little bit different to regulate can sometimes be found ingredients produced from GMOs. Let's say one example I've heard is that in the pills it can be if it's read, so it writes microcrystalline cellulose, it's something that's produced from corn, it's fibers that can be sometimes, and as far as I understand it, they're even quite often produced from GMO corn. I say it is not our topic today, but perhaps in the future we could discuss such things, but perhaps it is more of a job for the European Parliament in the end to even a little bit of an instance as it is regulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100955	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100956	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleague Glavasevic, that sometimes it is good to stay in the assembly and after 12 hours, so much can be learned in the assembly that you are not even an expert in this area by listening to smart people who say you can probably do something by yourself, expand your knowledge. We heard from the opening statement and the secretary of state that he is also a fighter for what we do not want, and that is also GMO food and GMO organisms and there is no dilemma at all and Croatia is certainly there about that, as far as it goes. But of course it opens up a wide discussion. Today we live in a world that has 7.5 billion almost 8 billion inhabitants and the question is, food production will get in trouble sooner or later, we see just how much war in Ukraine will lead to some problems, but I believe that these topics are certainly no matter how interesting they may be to parliamentarians. They've got a place of their own. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Right here in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100957	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100958	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, colleague Ivanovic, for the replica, it must have surrounded us all that the Secretary of State is a great fighter for our security, I know that I am, I think that, I would have come back maybe, your comment might have been more interpreted in the context of what I said about the need to maybe communicate more clearly with both citizens and citizens that we are actually doing here. In a lot of situations, it will happen to us that, precisely because it is difficult to break through, sometimes we find it difficult to break through the regulations if it is not one of our areas, and it is certainly even harder for the citizens because, I think, that is why they chose us to do it for them, but that is why it is very important that we explain especially in situations where they appear in the assembly or in other places political actors who love us to say to interpret creatively what is happening here.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100959	The following will be spoken by respected representative Goran Ivanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100960	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. When I came to this item where we were applying for agenda points, and when I saw the length of the text that explains this point, I thought I wouldn't answer it, because it would take me two and a half minutes to read the title myself, and then I wouldn't be left with so much time to discuss the subject. But I made a good choice for staying in HS today and I heard a lot of smart things that I really didn't, I didn't know, I didn't have a chance until now, and I heard what Mrs. Saberar-Dracher, Mrs. Maric, our esteemed Dr. Kirin, and Mrs. Kieran, too. Bencic, I think these are good, good topics that always go under the radar and somehow we think they're, in fact, irrelevant. These are very important, important topics, except for what the secretary said in his introduction, we were practically able to finish the debate afterwards, it's clear. This is a small part of the law that is changing, Croatia is a GMO and a free country and I don't think there would be a debate there. But the challenges of time in which this topic is safely updated may be in a different way, and we have learned that GMOs are even in some medicines used by a large population of not only Croatian societies but in general world populations, let us be honest 85% of the total soybeans are GMOs and therefore many other things. What I think is important for Croatian agriculture, Bencic opened one, one debate that will open in the coming weeks, it is a debate on the final Law on Agricultural Land which is a very important, important law, regardless of how many times he has changed throughout history, which basically regulates everything that will happen in agriculture in the time ahead, in front of us, and I think it is a very important law. We discussed here in HS two weeks ago, in particular on 16 March on the Declaration of the Alps-Adria-Dunav, initiated by Parliament's representative and the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Marijana Petir and I think that we are following these and European and world trends, but let go, can't be all about it, we have to deal with ourselves, we need to know what Croatia's strategic goals are, especially when it comes to food, it is still undefined in Croatian space. If we take the fact that Croatia throws 440 thousand tons of food a year, then it is a data that scares. There are solutions why I'm not on the side of traders, I'm on the side of the manufacturer that food must have its price, food can't be cheap in terms of it, so whatever it is, it still bought me two kilos, five or ten I eat, which I don't eat I'll throw away, I don't think this philosophy is, it's not good, that we have to get rid of it, and that these are some strategic provisions that will determine the time ahead, because as soon as the global process happens, and what happened in Ukraine falls into that sphere. It is important to bring us back and bring us back to consciousness where we are in this space, thank God Croatia can be satisfied with its millions and 300 thousand hectares of arable surface, if we put another 250 to 300 thousand more into office, and so much we have at our disposal, we have two beautiful institutes in Zagreb and Osijek that produce seeds, we have to preserve it, we can't lose it because what you can say I'm GMO, but there are no other seeds on the market besides GMOs, what are we going to shine? Therefore, these are strategic considerations that have to happen and I think it is, that it is good of these topics to say maybe they are not so interesting to the Croatian public, they sort of go a little below, under the radar, but it doesn't matter. Here I am, I think, and maybe the rest of my colleagues here have learned something, something that I might share if anywhere else then in their village guesthouse, and there are interested in these topics, so at least one breath won't be this, it won't be bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100961	We have several replicas, a respected representative of Bencic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100962	Dear colleague, I am absolutely certain that any village guest would find more interested in this debate than there may be here right now, and I agree on a very important debate. You said the same argument when you replicated fellow Bojan that thinking about how to produce food should also be put in the context of the number of people on the planet, so we have almost 8 billion people. However, on the other hand, this argument is very often used to justify the intensive and industrial way of agricultural production that is really harmful to the environment, but also to the soil, and on the other hand, we have the fact that 1/3 of the annual food produced is thrown in which, in rich Western countries, the majority of the food produced is dumped while in the poor are actually the losses on the resources, so on harvest, etc. due to the lack of... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100963	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100964	Yes, thank you for this question and yesterday we even partly led a similar debate. So 35% of the total food produced fails to even get to those who want to buy it, so 35% of the start is going down because of this or that. Another important question that must be determined, how much we want to produce per hectare, where the limit is, gave it 9 tons of grain, so there are no more than 9 tons of it regardless of the technique, the agrotechnics and everything else, gave us a lot of 9 tons of it and we see how many and Americans have had terrible problems with it because they didn't know how many 20 tons per hectare today that land is desert and nothing else in it is nothing at all, nor is it growing. So these are strategic things to discuss, but I am sure and always commend, and now I will also commend the chairman of Mrs. Petir's board who really thinks about agriculture very well. It introduces these points to the agenda, and I think that's very good. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100965	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100966	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I laughed when you mentioned your village guesthouse because you actually touched something that I wanted to ask you, which is how much, here in your contact, you are the same from Slavonia, how many producers, farmers actually understand this topic? What can you hear from them when you touch a theme like this? I know it may be a little time, but let's say in a minute maybe one comment in that direction can be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100967	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100968	I can, I always divide the producers into two categories, those who truly deal with agriculture and those recreationals who want to sew something from the state through incentives, cheating with anything. These real ones will never get into a situation to deal with something that is a gray zone in Croatia and they don't care at all even if someone is giving them a free share of that seed they won't accept because they have so much knowledge about it. I think that at local levels, let's be honest a lot of local and regional self-government units have declared themselves GMO free regions, right, both local and county, and I think that this world about GMOs and food and GMOs slowly, but it certainly reaches the ears, so if we don't know anything, we know that something isn't right, so here's where we put the barrier.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100969	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100970	Thank you, Vice President. You told your colleague Ivanovic that we follow what Europe prescribes, I would say that we are better than Europe when we talk about this, we are the top. We are the top with the adoption of our Alpe-Adria-Dunav Declaration, a region free of GMOs. We impose ourselves as a leader in the entire region where we call on countries in the environment to follow our example, ban the sowing of GMOs and experimental purposes and thus strengthen our agricultural production and tourism. That's great. There has been an initiative in which Croatia has been in for many years. This is the Danube soy initiative and we produce enough soy without GMOs, the problem is that we export a large part of that soy. She's making a very good price on the market. I'd like to try and keep her with us. You are a representative from Slavonia, you well know the initiatives that were born there, especially in Vukovar-Srijem County for the establishment of a centre for the processing of GMO free soy. Zagreb County initiative to become a whole county with organic agricultural production by 2030 I'm interested in your comment on these activities. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100971	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100972	Well, I can only comment on what I already said in my debate. These initiatives exist, and that's the point, there's nothing without initiative, no basis, and this initiative that went in the direction of this Alpe-Adria-Dunav Declaration is certainly something that's raised that ladder a lot more and what you say, and you know these European agriculture and as an advocate in parliament, I think we have an opportunity. Now, the opportunity is only an opportunity, if we don't take advantage of it then I'm afraid that we're just sorry for the missed opportunities, but I don't doubt here at the Ministry of Agriculture and Health that we've started to open these topics, that they're getting more and more talked about and that this initiative will then turn into something that will result in greater good not for us representatives but for the people who deal with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100973	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100974	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100975	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100976	Thank you very much for asking, so I think there's a lot going on right now. What has complicated not only Croatian agriculture, are property-legal relations they are so complicated that you now have parcels which, in Slavonia, are very little unprocessed land. It can really be counted on the fingers of one hand in some place that there are unprocessed plots, mainly because of unresolved property-legal relations, if there is no 5, 6, 7 divisors, some are in America, some are in Canada and it is mostly private, private land. The country's land is very small, and now, of course, there is an initiative in mountain Croatia that is quite different on land, but again I say, all of this is what's been going on in the last year and a half of the day, and it gives me the faith that we will finally work to make Croatia, it has its independence. at least in most of those products which are, which are important [[Intruder: Thank you.]] With respect to what you've been talking about, and that's GMO free. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100977	Honorable representative Sablar Dračevac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100978	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, so you mentioned as colleague Sandra Bencic used to speak strategically to food, and I think that's one question that we're going to be on the sidelines, and it should become crucial. Food is energy for man, and we need it in vain without it, so it can't work. I wonder if at this point in time when fuel is too expensive, when seed is too expensive, when pesticides are as much as they are, is it perhaps a time to intervene and encourage our farmers to work, giving them what they need so they can plant what we need in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100979	Dear Representative Ivanovic. Let's stick to the subject a little bit together, we've gone a little wide, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100980	Maybe it's the prayer breakfast we had, so then we're a little more spiritual than we'd normally be. It's very simple this is the answer. Everyone is evil for someone good. Now, if we're going to recognize it not only verbally and declaratively, we're going to recognize it through change and through initiatives then yes. I think that today's media approach is much, much better, today we're talking about important topics very quickly, and I think that this consciousness is much bigger than it might have been on some occasions, and now we've seen that it's not enough to put ourselves under a glass bell, we're not protected because we don't have enough stuff, and I'm going to end this with, really, a billion and 500 million tons of food in the world, and on the other hand, we have millions and millions of people who are starving right now. I think that's enough to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100981	Thank you very much. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative of Renata Sablar-Dračevac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100982	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Secretary of State, my associates, my associate, my colleagues and my colleagues. Well, I couldn't finish what I was going to do in that part while I was having a show outside the club, so I'd definitely keep up with the traceability of the food. So more than 50% of the world's livestock food is produced from genetically modified seeds and therefore I find it inconsistencies that the final product on the shelves is not so marked. If cattle are fed by GMOs, we as consumers should know that and should be clearly declared at packaging. So this is about the necessity and traceability of products from farm to table, and as a tourist country, Croatia is important for us to have GMOs free food and thus show a strong relationship to consumer safety. It should certainly be recommended for consumers to read certificates carefully, but also to eat more food that has been grown in an environmentally acceptable way, of course we have a bunch of malversions that the price is far more expensive and that it is essentially identical products. So we've already stressed that Croatia's GMO is a free country, and it's a good thing we don't have any, that we don't have in our fields such as this, such a seed and we don't use it anyway between 200 and 300 products annual sanitary inspection therefore controls and we somehow seem too small. I have to admit that in what I've read are not large numbers 10, 20% contains GMOs and all of these findings were below 0.9%. So the largest number was intended for athletes and meat products based on soybeans and countries of origin that were America and Germany. What must not yet be declared on food products of animal origin, therefore, means that it is important to declare on animal products that they are grown or fed with such a thing. Europe has a great fear of GMOs because they are all associated with this prion disease, or an epidemic of cow madness, that has once plagued Europe, and we remember how this disease occurs, or has been ground-breaking flour and has been given to cattle or cattle. We must not have such mistakes in the future, and in any case it is very important that this seed, the GMO seed, does not go into the fields because in this way we do not know what will happen in nature by modifying and what can expect us in the future. So we don't know enough about it. The Social Democrats will certainly support this bill because this is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100983	We have, please stay here, we have two replicas, a respected representative of Petyr first.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100984	Thank you, Vice President. GMO colleagues practice is controversial practice and therefore the EU has really strict rules and according to my knowledge except in Spain, something in Portugal, in fact there is no production of GMOs in Europe and this is mainly about corn. According to the State Inspectorate report, therefore all the seeds analysed were GMOs free, all food analysed for human use was GMOs free. They've been doing green mass analyses, even 40 samples also GMO free. But when you mention the livestock food that comes to our market there were 51 samples of them 11 incompatible and veterinary inspection ordered compliance with the law. What we have proposed as a committee and what is adopted in the context of the declaration is the labelling of GMOs free products, and that would include what you said, when we prescribe a practice that the product can obtain a GMO free label that excludes animal feeding with GMOs.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100985	Thank you. Honorable representative Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100986	Thank you. This is really... where we really need to go in this direction, it is important and for what we are dealing with or our tourism so that our guests also know that our relationship with GMOs is very, very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100987	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100988	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, here are a few of us talking, and you who are all being monitored, how much analysis is done by inspections, so children's food producers are also subject to the conditioning industry, distributors, meat, baker's additives, children's products, etc. And it's really important for all of us to keep that food safe from GMOs. However, here I was mentioning that GMOs have a free certificate with us that I was amazed only by Cekin's fresh chicken and Vindy's cattle food factory Blagodar, here's exactly how it stands, so I'm just as curious as you think, as more stimulating our producers to produce this GMO free certificate? So it's not just a problem to get it out, it's also an adjustment to production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100989	Honorable representative Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100990	Thank you. I agree with you, it's really important that as many different industries as possible, you've led two meat industries to produce GMOs free food, that their re-promatter is grown on the release from GMOs. And how do you encourage them? Listen, it's just a matter of markets and prices because you can't stimulate industry in any other way. But I think they should think about it, and it would be very good if, in line with what you said before, MP Petyr, we were meant and wanted to say that we serve GMOs free food and that this is how they are popularized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100991	Now she will speak to the esteemed representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100992	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The secretary of state with a co-worker, MPs and MPs. I would like to use this debate to commend once again all the efforts of many and many scientists and experts and members of the civil sector, including us politicians who have worked for the past 20 years, that Croatia can truly say with pride that it has a country status free from GMOs. For almost ten years, the process I led to achieve that all Croatian counties made decisions on relevant bodies such as the County Assembly and declared themselves free of GMOs, which means that they banned the planting of GMO seeds and for experimental purposes. This followed our national legislation, which was not very simple, I must admit. The reason that the spear was broken at European level by 2015 and only then was it decided that Member States themselves could decide on their own status, not to mention the pressures that we have been exposed to in the European Parliament by the European Commission, which still today has one totally unacceptable approach for me where, again, the new GMO registers, Parliament refuses to do so with its resolutions. In my term of office of 2014-2019, we have adopted 36 resolutions which we have actually given the Commission a refusal to register new GMOs. Why? Because it is indeed a controversial method where genes of a species are inserted into another species and we do not know how this will ultimately result in biodiversity, for our agricultural production, for food production, but also for human health. That is why I am extremely proud that, as the Committee on Agriculture, we have proposed to HS who last week adopted the Declaration on the Alps-Adria-Dunav region free of GMOs where we want to encourage our neighbours to take the same approach as we do and to keep their area from GMOs because they don't know either bees or wind as GMOs and what is not. And in this sense, it is important that, when we protect actually their area to protect ourselves and promote our sustainable tourism, our ecological production. This is also supported by local initiatives that are more than welcome. I mentioned already the Centre for the Processing of GMOs free soybean, which should be opened in Vukovar-Srijem County, the initiative of Zagreb County, which by 2030 wants to place its agricultural areas all in the function of organic production and, above all, place such food in the kitchen of its public institutions such as kindergartens, schools, health institutions and that is something we should commend from this level. That we are not lonely talking and the fact that 150 regions and 4,500 local administrations across Europe have decided to declare GMOs free and that is something that is significant. As a committee in its declaration, which this assembly supported, we have also called for the strengthening of our reference laboratories, we know that we have two laboratories, they are doing a dedicated and good job, but they need equipment. It takes financial resources and I appeal to the government's present representatives to hear us and to help in that part because in order to be able to follow these goals that are patriotic, I would not say they are ambitious but they are patriotic and bring multiple benefits then we should really have strong controls. We also called for the introduction of the GMO free certification process because I think that what was mentioned earlier were some volunteer labels to clearly prescribe how and who, for which procedure can get a GMO free tag. I also appeal to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture for us to join this business because there is no single European regulation. Each Member State shall adopt its own regulation in that area of the labelling of GMOs free of charge. There are different regulations, I studied it, very different from the state to the country where we have in some countries allowed to eat a few months with food that we don't know whether GMOs are free or not to a lot of radicals where it's not allowed at all. So we need to see what all models are available to us and bring those best models for us, and I believe that we can be successful in that. I am grateful to all my colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture, but of course also to all of you because we adopted this declaration unanimously, we have already opened communication with other Member States in the environment, so I hope that this is a successful initiative where Croatia will show its leadership and choose from it both for our agriculture and for our tourism and for our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100993	Thank you. Dear Representative Kirin has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100994	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. Dear MPs, how do you comment on GMO production and pesticides and can you comment on the US and Canada are one of the largest producers of GMOs and that per unit of surfaces do not have a much larger product and quantity than producers in Western Europe with a traditional way of production and has the use of pesticides in the USA and Canada dropped?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100995	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100996	Thank you very much, colleague Kirin, for this replica. GMO binds to itself the pesticides and herbicides, i.e. their enhanced use, which means that in fact it significantly pollutes the soil and the environment and irrevocably destroys biodiversity because we have noticed in the countries that you mentioned that have been radiated, the parcels that are sown with GMO seeds that there is actually only possible monoculture, and secondly, it is problematic that several cases of lawsuits that have indeed been fatal to farmers because by transferring this GMO seed from GMO fields to those who were not GMOs have been polluted. Farmers who sold their entire shipments thinking they produced something that GMOs free didn't know had happened because it wasn't enough distance between parcels, had to pay at the end of the court in fact to those companies that patented GMO seeds damage because it turned out to have stolen their patent which wasn't, of course, true.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100997	Thank you. Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100998	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Petyr, you are one of the two representatives in this assembly that was also in the European Parliament, so you can tell us a part of your experience, I think along with my colleague Stier, right, you two are. Uh, and it's actually very interesting what you mentioned about it, one part of that dynamic decision-making and advocacy actually different positions. What you can hear more often is that and what I think is a great source of myths about how many representatives and advocates in the European Parliament are exposed and exposed to lobbyists, so I wonder if you were and were there seems to me in the Committee on Agriculture, did you have contact, did you in this way, in any way, try to lobby the employees of these large producers of GMO seeds and how does that dynamic work at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u100999	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u101000	Thank you, fellow Glavasevic, for the replica. So there is a register of lobbyists in the European Parliament and they can't just walk in, so they have to be registered in order to get their IDs in order to get in and they can even announce themselves at the meeting. When it comes to such companies that you're talking about producing GMO seeds, they didn't even try to come to me because they know they don't have a chance with me, my position has been clear for the last million years and there, there's no space, but there were some other companies that also belonged to special industries that tried to come to me and I just made a decision that industry won't take because I don't think my position here can change and I didn't want to make concessions.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u101001	Honorable representative Sablar-Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u101002	Thank you, Vice President. So GMO free products, that's the conclusion from this session and that's something you think we should soon prepare in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture. I hope they heard us and how do you intend to further encourage them in that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u101003	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u101004	Thank you, colleagues Sablar-Dračevac, for asking. Well, I've already encouraged them, and you've all helped me to do that because I've put it in the declaration, and we've voted it out, so our initiative should bear fruit in a way that now both the Ministry and the other Ministry in co-operation prion in making rules for, to mark GMOs free products. I think it will give one added value to our agricultural products, better pass on the market if we can say so, and one security to our citizens and a greater choice in buying products for which they want to maybe raise more money or make sure that what they buy is not really a cat in a bag than that GMO is a free product. And what we also called in the declaration was the strengthening of the lab, and I saw that with the approval of the representatives of the Ministry of Health they accepted it, and I think it's extremely important because one has to follow the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u101005	Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the honourable representative Mladen Karlic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u101006	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. So here's when we talk about GMOs as soon as we mention that term, you usually get a negative view, especially when it comes to food, that kind of food. Perhaps just one example, insulin-dependent diabetes patients use genetically modified insulin, some vaccines are genetically modified, and this last one for the corona also produced on the MRI means genetic. The possibility of using genetic engineering in medicine has one great potential because this technology could replace genes that are related to some serious diseases, in fact only genetic engineering has been modified, should have one positive actually side, but I say there are still some problems. The main and basic reason why food actually started to be genetically modified was to increase resistance somehow especially to plant food from pests, from, from plant diseases and to actually have better quality and better production. Of course, this probably spread to a much wider extent than we might be able to deal with, and we can hardly understand, and of course there is a possibility and abuse in order to produce as much as possible, and where quality can then be... especially because there are some dangers for the human organism when such genetic modification is used, and that is primarily an allergy, allergic reactions that can cause such food, then a potential transfer of genes from food to human cells or I don't know of bowel bacteria, and then cause changes and diseases, then the third problem of crossing especially in plants means mixing these genetically modified and those indigenous ones that are not conventional in the fields, and in fact in some way it might not be controlled to lead to the quality that we want. This is why, of course, we have before us this law in the first reading and, as the Secretary of State pointed out, it is ensured in the meantime that the new EU Regulation, which has been amended in part since 2003, has been adopted because of the different rules of transparency, risk assessment, confidentiality of data set out in the legislation, on food and other sectoral acts of the EU, where the regulation will unify the provisions of all food legislation and related to transparency and sustainability of risk assessment, with an emphasis on the provisions relating to food risk notification with particular emphasis on genetically modified food and feed. What is, of course, a public problem, there is a particular concern about the fact that the assessment of the food safety of the European Food Safety Authority in the area of the procedure for the authorisation of genetically modified food is based primarily on studies commissioned by industry. In order to provide consumers with additional level of guarantees and to ensure access to all available relevant scientific data and studies in the case of applications, it is appropriate to provide for and consult third parties with a view to establishing the availability of other relevant scientific data. It is therefore necessary to establish an additional instrument for the implementation of the data or for the procurement of additional studies, given that there is... evidence of compliance with EU requirements, including in the section of approval of genetically modified food and feed for animals. Due to the different rules in the transparency and risk assessment and confidentiality of data set out in the food legislation as well as other sectoral acts..., the adoption of this Regulation in 2019 will unify the provisions of all food legislation relating to transparency and sustainability of risk assessment with an emphasis on the provisions relating to food risk notification with a particular emphasis on genetically modified food and feed. What is also important by implementing the proposed law will ensure greater control of what industry gives as a declaration in its product. It is emphasized that all data will be verified, evolved, verified, and the work will be attended by Croatian scientists and, of course, by inspectorates in all their fields, depending on which part of the segment is involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u101007	Thank you. The senior secretary of state, Željko Plazonic, will now speak finally on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u101008	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Finally, I would like to thank everyone who participated in this debate today on this item of the agenda for the comments, suggestions, suggestions, reflections, especially thanks to my colleague Maric, who, behold, reminded me of Socrates' statement that I know nothing. However, in this context I would mention that this was still a topic of law, if we are already talking about laboratories then we are talking about laboratories that have only European accreditation, if they do not have European accreditation, then it does not belong to a network of European laboratories and the question of the credibility of the findings that these laboratories are doing. Otherwise, since smart people write like that, it says to me that we made a total of 80 in 2020, '21. 218 total of 298 official GMO analysis in our labs. What is important to point out, so you wouldn't think that we are always at a start, first of all, is a very intense discussion in the EPSC of the European Council for so-called. the issue of food profiles. In these food profiles, all the essential data will be for a particular food product and on this basis every consumer will be able to know exactly what is in this food product and whether there are elements or ingredients or products of genetically modified food. What I would say in the end and tell all of our citizens that we can be absolutely calm in Croatia, we can be absolutely satisfied because we have really good control and today we are practically genetically free or free country as it is said in our English language and it must be something that I would like to conclude this presentation today and thank everyone again for your participation and your activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u101009	Thank you very much. So I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. And we'll end it with today's work. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m., the first item will be the report on the work of the Probation Service for 2020. Have a nice rest of the afternoon. The session was interrupted at 4:07 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u83015	Mr. Penava will be the position of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u83016	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected viewers who follow us through small screens. In front of the National Movement Representatives' Club on the topic of the current reconstruction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the following position may be presented. Since Croatia is a parliamentary country that rests on the 3rd pillar of the government based on our constitution, so the legislative which we are making here representatives of HS, the judicial and executive government of the Republic of Croatia, in light of the current reconstruction of the government, should shed light on this problem with a clear message. The reconstruction of the government of the Republic of Croatia is not done at this time by the Prime Minister, the HDZ bodies are not doing so through the media as they try to place it, neither do coalition partners nor the parliamentary majority. The reconstruction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is done by law enforcement authorities in the Republic of Croatia. In other words, executive power is under pressure and is clean, targeted by judicial authority, judicial instance. Why is that? Because the government of the Republic of Croatia ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia should, by definition, take care of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the interests of the state. In Croatia, unfortunately, that is not the case. This is witnessed by a demographic breakdown and departure and the loss of 400,000 people. It is a record public debt that we have in the Republic of Croatia today. That's the fact that two years since the earthquake, no house has been restored. In the end, it also tells you the fact that the Croatian prime minister went to Ukraine and threatened Russia with a decisive response, and then when the missile fell to Zagreb, the capital city of the Republic, the capital of all our determination and ability disappeared. On the other hand, since there is no concern about the interests of the state and the citizens, which exists, there is concern for its interest, there is concern for the interests of the like. This is best witnessed by software affairs, JANAF, wind power plants. This is best witnessed by Eurostat's reports on the perception of corruption where we are first in Europe. Unfortunately, the ministers in prison are the best to testify, but this last affair is also witnessed by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. So I'm top of the government. What's this about? It is that the current government has created a programme under cover of aid to areas that are less developed, in which minorities live, and then the same government, the SDSS government factor headed by Milorad Pupovac, Mrs Jeckov, Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic, has drawn up a list of 15 companies that need to get past the criteria, past the tender of money from all of us, all taxpayers in the country. What did they do with that list? They gave their coalition partner, so Plenkovic HDZ, to do it. The matter is so rotten, so bad, so amoral that after that the factors of the government, the Government of the Republic of Croatia as SDSS and Popovec defend this thesis with an argument that it is the work of parliamentary representatives from minority lines. But, ma'am, gentlemen, dear, it's not like that. You didn't take care of the abandoned areas, the minorities, the companies, you pushed your money, and 15 companies that were supposed to get in accordance with the terms of the competition, and the money was lost. The issue facing Croatia is very clear. It's a clear choice in front of all of us. Corrupt Trade Coalition or Croatia? These 15 companies are all us. These 15 companies are 400,000 people who have left Croatia and I think for every honest man there is a choice in this The dilemmas are very clear. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u83074	Mrs Vesna Vucilovic will be in front of the Croatian Vučilovic Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u83075	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Last week, we heard trains in Croatia going on hydrogen, this bold plan by Minister Ćorić encouraged me to wonder what state HZ are in. Do our trains run 200 or even 300km/h as in France, Spain and other EU countries? Of course not. Drive from Osijek to Koška 60km/h, drive from Osijek to Erdut 20km/h. At the borders of Croatia, civilised rail traffic of the 21st century ceases, and train speeds fall rapidly. The average speed in Croatia is 58km/h. Railway transport is priced and environmentally acceptable, safe and fast in developed countries, in Croatia this is not the case and in order to achieve that level, investment is needed. But it doesn't seem like much of a problem because we can use the EU funds to rebuild the railways and people wonder, so where's the problem? Why are our trains slow and why are we still in the 19th century when it comes to railways? How these funds from the funds are used I'm going to show you two examples. The first is the construction and reconstruction of the railway Long Village-Križevci it is the best example of what it looks like in Croatia and this case shows that we are not even able to spend the money that the European Commission gives us, literally. The last deadline of completion of the works was moved to mid-2023. and that is no less than 3.5 years after the scheduled deadline. So not 3.5 months, not a year, but 3.5 years. Only the entry of a local permit took more than a year, it could be said that the state sabotages the country itself. If the work is not completed by the middle of next year, it could happen that the European Commission is asking for a refund. The projects are delayed due to the lack of harmonisation of the legal regulations and the slowness of the state administration at all levels. Another example of wandering in the impasses of public procurement until the works have yet to begin the 44 km long share of Hrvatski Leskovac-Karlovac. The competition for the project was launched on 7 September 2020. So a year and a half ago, we haven't even chosen a performer, a year and a half, and that's funded by the European Commission 85% are grants. After the end of the epic with the unrealistically low dumped offer of the Chinese company, Strabag was selected as a performer. However, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures has annulled the decision on the basis of a complaint from a third-place Turkish company. Client i.e. HH did not demonstrate on the basis of which it assessed that Strabag had met one of the conditions of the tender documentation. Is it a mistake, someone's failure or something? Will someone answer for that? Meanwhile, prices are rising and the estimated value of 2 billion works is increasing, certainly not going to be so. The European Commission will not give more money because someone in HZ is not doing their job properly, the difference will, as usual, be paid by the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia. In the end nothing, trains still bad and slow, in HZ the empire of the ear is growing, citizens pay everything through high taxes, the question is only until when? And I'll just remind the taxpayers and Croatian citizens that every time you pour a liter of fuel, any gas or diesel you pay these and these kind of Croatian railways. If that makes any sense, judge for yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u83076	Thank you. Mr Pavić will be the position of the Social Democrats Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u83147	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I've already talked here about this speaker about the problems that arise when we make bad laws, when we bring what is inconclusive, and I have appealed to most government representatives and to the government themselves to accept amendments, given that these amendments are indeed aimed at functional law. Today I will draw attention to the problems created by the adoption of the Law on Social Care and the Household Law by reminding you that we had a debate about the Law on the Protection of whistles that we also found to be dysfunctional and that it makes no sense. Here's what happens to the Social Services Act and the Household Act. With a date of 17.2.2022, under the new Social Care Act, the right to a guaranteed minimum fee is recognised as a percentage of the basis set out in Article 22 to all those entitled to this right. However, at a meeting held on 24 February, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided on a basis for calculating the guaranteed minimum fee. According to that decision, the basis on which the amount of the guaranteed minimum fee is calculated is 1000 kuna and the decision came into force from 26.2.2022. However, according to our thinking both to the attitude and to what it says in the law of the basis for the guaranteed minimum fee of 1000 kuna should apply from that day on to all those entitled to that fee. So since 26.2., regardless of the questioning procedures they've now put into the first place. The review process will only determine the new percentage on which the user has the right, but we will see that the right may eventually be abolished, but it has nothing to do with the basis on which that percentage is applied. However, the ministry's view of the new basis can only be applied to those users for whom the review procedure has been conducted and since the date on which the procedure was initiated. It means from the day the procedure was initiated. For all users, it is normal that a review procedure cannot be initiated at the same time. What's going on? Someone gets more money, someone gets less money and not one day, not one week, but a few months. Here, that's the law we passed in this high house. I must also point out that the basis on which each form of financial compensation from the social care system is calculated has changed several times over the past 30 years and has always been applied since the date on which it was adopted. So total... Here is another example, on Day 17.2. a new Household Act came into force, and a new decision on the level of supply for the needs of users on the basis of which new percentages are worth determining the amount of supplies for the child and the younger adult and the adult. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. Now the centres have their thoughts and views, our view is that the new percentages of the basics of 5.3 years should apply to all those who, regardless of the review, mean all those who have these rights, but yet in practice there is a different understanding of the legal provisions adopted because some centres believe that new percentages for a user can only be applied after the review has been carried out, and the problem is that the ministry has not yet adopted a clear interpretation of the law regarding this form of monetary compensation that would be mandatory for all centres. And we have a few more examples of this law. And now I'm asking you, given that we were just here mentioning that for those problems that arise we're going to bring bad laws of people to the establishment of our own association. Shall we also set up associations for people who have social benefits to achieve these rights equally? Does that make sense or is it wise to listen to our suggestions, read these amendments to accept them, and then we have a functional law after that, or we'll continue to bow to the right like this, so which of both of us is the persuasion?
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u83275	Mrs. Ursha Raukar Gamulin in front of the green-left coalition. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u83276	Thank you. So, March is the month of raising awareness of the importance of early detection of endometriosis. Endometriosis is the second most common proliferative benevolent chronic disease in women with uterus mucous membranes growing outside the womb, usually on organs in a small bowl causing painful menstruations, pain in sexual intercourse, infertility, and problems with digestion and urination. About 200 million women worldwide suffer from this disease, and today each 10 women are thought to have endometriosis. Despite the high frequency of endometriosis remains often unrecognizable, insufficient education of medical staff and the lack of information of patients and the public on endometriosis are the reasons why endometriosis is diagnosed late, it has passed as long as six to nine years from the first symptoms to diagnosis and failed to be treated in time. Since '93. Every year, various activities are held in March, aimed at supporting women with endometriosis, informing the public and raising awareness of the importance of early detection of endometriosis. Recently, 120,000 petition signatures were collected in Germany in three weeks..., the appeal was addressed to the Ministry of Health and Media with the aim of finally adopting a national campaign strategy that would raise awareness of the importance of early detection of endometriosis as well as the need to invest in researching this disease. Australia was the first country to adopt a detailed action plan against endometriosis in July 2018 and so far invested more than $20 million in improving the quality of women's lives. In France on 11 January this year, French President Emmanuel Macron announced in his speech a national strategy aimed at improving diagnostics and endometriosis treatment. As early as January 13th, the French parliament officially included endometriosis in a group of chronic diseases, and on February 14th, the French health minister outlined an action plan for endometriosis worth 20m euros, with some of the funds going into research and part of the medical staff's education and the creation of a large epidemiological database. An interesting plan is also to create hospital centres for endometriosis in each of the French regions for which 4m euros have been allocated. In the UK in parliament in November '21. a discussion on the approval of investments aimed at researching endometriosis, and the debate on support for patients with endometriosis at their workplace on 9 February this year. Scotland presented its Woman half plan, with the aim of improving the care of women with endometriosis by family doctors and general gynecologists who have so far proved to be missing. Overall, we can say that there are positive developments at international level to recognise endometriosis as chronic diseases and support for women suffering from this terrible disease. In Croatia, it is estimated that frequency is similar to that in the world, so one in ten women is sick, but unfortunately we still don't have an endometriosis register, we don't have a public health plan, we don't have a national plan, there are no regional centres to treat endometriosis, so there's no public health system dealing with this disease, we're still at zero. As far as the profession is concerned, there has been a reference centre for endometriosis in the Petrovic hospital in Zagreb and a professional society for endometriosis since last year. The action "I am one of the ten" initiated by a group of women treated with endometriosis is about to begin, and they will hopefully form an association. The aim of the action is to sensitize the public and warn about the importance of early detection of endometriosis and to initiate public health to deal systematically with this severe chronic disease. And that is why I call on both the government of the Republic of Croatia and all of you colleagues and colleagues to support women with endometriosis by active pawnage not only in the month of March but throughout the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u83277	Thank you very much. And now we're going to move on to the applications we've received to make a point on behalf of the MPs' club and the independent representatives' club. The first is in the name of Mosta Nino Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u83369	Understand yourself while it's not too late I ordered from this same place on November 10th the famous headquarters for the removal of covid, the introduction of covid certificates, pardon. Obviously in vain. The permanent state of emergency continues to last, a parasite that became the master of our lives overnight continues to decide on freedom of movement, work, and even the breathing of Croatian citizens. As part of this revolutionary committee, there are the least doctors, and we've learned that. We also learned that in full composition, the famous headquarters met only a few times and that the decisions were made in a narrow circle after the recognition of Minister Beros himself, to which narrow? Who are these self-proclaimed masters of our lives? It wasn't Andrew who failed because he was gambling, but because he was taking out old wisdom, and you're pulling out more and more shamelessly and you're sinking deeper and deeper. Where did superhero Willy Berosh go? He's been gone for weeks, like he's been in the ground, so why are you hiding him? After you shot the sparrow from the cannon in the first lockdown, you convinced the public that it saved them from the new plague, and then, under the slogan "Safe Croatia" pushed the previously branded rescuers from headquarters to the electoral lists in the crown elections. What happened in the meantime so you're hiding the same Willie Berosh now like a crazy grandmother in a closet? Where's professor. Marcotic, haven't seen her in months? What about two million doses of vaccines paid for by all of us, and which will surely fail? Why did you order this? How many more vaccines did you have to pay? As much as the EU, 10 doses per capita. Did you arrange SMSs like Ursula von der Leyen for billions of euros in tax taxpayers? Why even after 2nd year? The purchase of anti-covid equipment goes beyond the Public Procurement Act? You don't think there's gonna be time to settle the bill? Instead of listening to the voice of the people after the impossible winter conditions have collected signatures, almost 400,000 signatures under the media and political whip not only of you but also parts of the left opposition you decided to extract, more specifically bury further. Yesterday, the ruling majority of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure decided to refer two referendum questions to the constitutional assessment. Why? In mature democracies, the Law on Referendum serves to enable and regulate the referendum, with us obviously to prevent it as much as possible. We have a unique absurdly high threshold of 10% of the necessary signatures to call a referendum, in most European countries it is about 1-2%, and also these 368 as much as you asked that 10% is not a real number because the list showed that there are only 3.9 million inhabitants in Croatia, so that number is much closer to 3 million, but all of this was well collected. And instead of taking some lessons, you are now sending to the Constitutional Court two questions, one of which is constitutionally effective, in the sense that it does not collude with any other article of the Constitution or constitutional value. It's just about being in art. 17. The constitution adds the word pandemic to ensure that this article should be followed in order to limit human rights and freedoms, so a two-thirds majority is needed, and the mere half. What could be unconstitutional? What could be unconstitutional in the matter of abolishing the headquarters and making decisions for the right person, which is the health minister, while decisions concerning human rights restrictions and freedoms are made only by two-thirds of them in the assembly? What do you think the Constitutional Court will do? There is no reason and we have not heard any argument constitutionally in which it would be a problem with these issues. Whether the Constitutional Court will act on a political remote control listening to the wishes of those who are installed there remains to be seen, but can also be seen without the Constitutional Court. Many countries do not have a constitutional court, a referendum on the abolition of the constitutional court, powers are transferred to the Supreme Court and we'll all be happier, and the budget will make a huge savings, but let's wait. [[Intruder Radina: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u83532	Dreven Budinsky in front of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u83533	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. As we have Red Dress Day, Pink strip day marks Sugar disease Day, stroke day, cancer fight, Lifeday, etc. On March 26th, we mark the Purple Day. A day when a purple color is shown worldwide by solidarity to people who have epilepsy. According to the World Health Organization, around 50 million people worldwide have epilepsy, an estimated 6 million people in Europe suffer from epilepsy, and 3000,000 new cases of disease are diagnosed each year. The causes of the disease are diverse. In childhood, the most common cause of birth trauma, then disorder of development of blood vessels, congenital damage, head injury and infection, and further in adulthood are strokes, head injuries, excessive alcohol or drug consumption, and tumours and infections. It may occur as an hereditary disease, but it is very rare or low in the percentage of patients. Epilepsy affects all aspects of life and can easily become physical, mental, and social problems for individuals and their families. Today epilepsy is very successfully controlled, and the stigma that follows it is due to ignorance and prejudice. As well as removing the stigmatisation of patients with epilepsy in the world, a number of actions have been initiated to raise awareness of this disease and with a view to understanding this disease. It is important to educate family members of the environment so that they can implement first aid measures in the event of an epileptic attack. The purple lavender color, which is an international color of epilepsy, is also associated with the feeling of loneliness. Loneliness often occurs as a consequence of the social stigmatization and isolation of people with epilepsy. Croatia is 2010 for the first time involved in organizing the manifestion of the Purple Day. It is very important that we give people with epilepsy a sense of safety that they are not different and that is why it is very important that we spread knowledge of epilepsy and bring down prejudice. I asked for that subject even though it was a day of personal experience, I know how much it takes to understand, love and patience when you are with epilepsy. I can say that for 11 years I have participated in a young, beautiful girl, convince her to accept her illness, to work normally, live and look forward to all the nice things. I am happy to say that today she is a beautiful woman, a mother of two children, and I am telling her to keep looking into the future and live her life as well as all those suffering from epilepsy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u83534	Thank you, too. Dostoevsky, Napoleon, Alexander the Great, they all had epilepsy, only that should be enough to fight it even more. Mrs Katarina Peovic will hold a position on behalf of the HSS and Workers' Front Club. Ignited yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u83584	Good afternoon. On Tuesday, I attended a protest by the SSSH workers in front of the Holding that we told not to fire the workers. The workers' front here stops with a large number of unions who have condemned the layoffs for about 500 workers in Holding with announced 700 layoffs. Among them is a large number of necessary workers. Of this current list of 477 on the list is the largest number of workers with low coefficients. If it insists on austerity measures, and I am not going to enter a special debate here that would require a little more time on the need or no need for a austerity measure as a policy, then these measures should be justified and justified in addition to the reorganisation. That's why we join unions that warn a few things. First of all, the process of establishing a collective surplus worker has been poorly implemented. Why? Because there's no guarantee of reorganization of work. The process is not based on analysis of jobs, but only on reducing the number of workers while their jobs remain systematised. So if you wanted to reduce the number of workers who had so-called workers. The fictitious jobs were then to be abolished. This gives notices to workers, but their jobs remain in that systematization. If the aim is to systematise the criteria applied here to excess workers is not good, it means again to determine which places are fictitious jobs because workers have fought according to several criteria. So one criterion was the year of the internship, the second criterion was the number of children, the third criterion was whether there was a warning to the worker before the resignation and the fourth criterion was the defence status. So if someone was young, if they didn't have children, if they didn't have a defender and if they didn't, if they got a warning at work he was classy on that list very easily and means those who didn't have those criteria were higher on the list. It is particularly paradoxical, although it may not be often the case of this last criterion because here today it is debated about the Whistle Act, so the workers who receive the reminders are often workers who warn about that employer who is actually corrupt, which in this case was often assumed by the case, so we can come up with a paradoxical situation that is, for example, a clean-up worker who reported to the green-left coalition about the smurfs that Bandic sent to them was also the worker who received the notice. Unfortunately, this reminder does not go out of date that the same problem is related to the Labour Act, which is another story, but means once you get one notice before you quit, you can't get rid of it and it's also a form of intimidation of workers. In short, however, the list of extra workers is not determined on the basis of a systematisation that would say what workers eat in these imaginary jobs, which is why young workers without children arrived there. The unions rightly question whether there is a possibility of a normal future functioning of Zagreb due to a rapid reduction in the number of workers in the administration. Of course, there will be a large number of administration workers here, but especially workers warn about Cleanliness as a component of Holding, cleanliness is due to a whole range of different services provided and due to a number of waste monitoring obligations through accompanying sheets and work orders of permanent changes and the conclusion of new contracts by each type of waste, a very complex operational process and a system that must be monitored by the administration, and with new decisions coming from the public service decision on the collection of municipal waste in Zagreb, additional obligations are expected. So again, the systematicisation of jobs would respond to what jobs are not needed, but firing workers can lead us to problems in the functioning of the City of Zagreb, especially in the light of the new changes we expect. Secondly, trade unions warn of illegality because according to the Labour Act, employers must consult trade unions rather than the negotiating committee, so SSH has also come out of negotiations, and on the other hand there are serious accusations against some trade unioners whom I will not enter but some of them have literally publicly admitted that they have remained in the negotiations so that they can influence the removal of their people from the surplus list, which is clearly clienteletic practice. Third trade unions also warn of the illegality of the supply of jobs in so-called replacement jobs. operations. Namely, only five jobs offered by the VSS have been offered for the above 200 workers, and the legal criterion of the measures to be taken by the employer for the purpose of taking care of the workers is not met at all. Therefore, instead of establishing a collective surplus, we welcome union calls for negotiations to be held in the systematization and identification of an optimal business organisation. and identify the real needs for the number of workers. [[Intruder Radina: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u83616	- Mrs. Crescent. Katarina Nemet will be the position of the IDS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u83617	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. A month ago, I warned from this pay phone about some of the major problems our fishing sector faces. Some of these problems have been particularly affected by fishermen on the west coast of Istria, while some of the problems relate to the rest of the fishing fleet on the Croatian side of the Adriatic. I reminded myself then, among others, of something that, in the Croatian public, raised quite a lot of dust in time, but then the lights of media attention went out, all sort of retreated and the fishermen were left alone again with their problems. It is a problem whose cause lies in the unresolved issue of demarcation with Slovenia in Savudrija vala, and therefore the addresses of Istrian fishermen regularly arrive at the punishments of the Slovenian maritime police for allegedly illegal fishing in their sea. Despite the strong promises Croatian diplomacy has done nothing effective on this issue, many fishermen throughout this time are burdened with astronomical amounts of penalties they do not pay for the time being, but live in constant fear of whether one day they will be forced to take them to bankruptcy or prison. I also reminded myself of two other problems that plague the fishing sector, an excessive population of dolphins that cause great material damage, tear up nets and eat caught fish, and in recent times there is an unprecedented sigh of large jellyfish, which practically prevents fish fishing, which is why some Istrian fishermen were forced to stop their work and wait for this natural disaster to simply pass. And then the last in this unfortunate series came a significant collection of blue diesel that practically crushed fishermen. Problems and woes unfortunately affect the fishing sector from all sides. ... Our fishermen from northwestern Istria would say, in a free translation, they don't know which death they'd die of. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's kind of how, unfortunately, their situation can be illustrated. I therefore spoke a little more about it in one of my recent parliamentary exhibitions, urging then the competent ministry and the government of the Republic of Croatia to assist and provide concrete and effective support to the Croatian fishing sector without over-exaggeration on its knees. In this direction, it looks forward and encourages information that has been shared by the Ministry of Agriculture these days, which says that to help the fisheries sector, this ministry plans several aid measures in the form of state aid through grants, which is announced by the planned substantial funds. The requirements for approval of these measures say in the ministry are addressed to the addresses of EU institutions, so we all hope and stick to the figures that we in Istria say green light will come from that address and that it will indeed be able to mitigate negative economic and social impact on the fisheries sector in a concrete and effective way. And this time, I will appeal to the Ministry of Agriculture, Minister Vukkovic, Prime Minister Plenkovic and all those who can influence this in particular for a positive response from European institutions that will allow planned mechanisms to help the Croatian fishing sector. And then I also ask that when it comes to the realization of these financial support simplifies their use, that you do not burden fishermen with unnecessary administration and bureaucracy, that they do not attack them with infinite patterns, documents, tables and who knows what not everything because the hand to heart that fishermen wanted to be officials, rather than fishermen. This is how fishermen who know their jobs, and in everything else they should have all the help they need, not the power of institutions from municipal and city institutions to state. In short, when aid measures are granted, if they are, and we hope they will, let us help these people find a straw of salvation and help, not new problems and unnecessary frustrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u83618	Thank you, too. The position of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists and Mr Darko Klasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u83726	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Last week we learned from the media about the unfair business practice of a textbook publisher, specifically about ALFI which did not report to the authors that their stories, songs, texts or parts of texts were published in its publications as well as not regulated by copyright. I'm not familiar with what number of authors this is, but it's unacceptable no matter how large the number of messages that are sent to the author's self and the users of these textbooks in this case are children, parents and teachers. Publishing textbooks is a highly profitable activity on the safe market and if approved by the Ministry of Science and Education, they are bought at 100%. Once you have drawn up a textbook, a reader or a work book if approved by the Republic of Croatia i.e. its citizens will pay you 100% of the price without distribution costs as usual in publishing. That is why textbooks are highly profitable goods and someone makes good money on them, and it is unacceptable that those who earn profits in business with the state do not adhere to its laws. Here I primarily think of the Law of Copyright and Related Rights. On the other hand, the use of such textbooks is also asked, as is the message that is sent to children who learn from these textbooks, although perhaps our youngest users are not currently aware of this problem, the unquestionable message of using this realized educational tool is unquestionable. The Ministry of Science and Education cannot control as it is neither adequately overseeing the affairs or publishers and whether regulated business relations between them and their textbook authors are, but when such a major violation of copyrights occurs, it is necessary that the state intervenes and textbooks prepared by the publisher in breach of copyright should be disqualified from the selection of textbooks for this school year in order to send a message that such behaviour and non-compliance of the law is unacceptable. In any case, we must insist on the legality which includes, on the one hand, compliance with the copyright legislation, but also a fair procedure to determine possible injury in the sense that it is important to ensure that the decisions on infringements are made by the authorities responsible for this, which are courts. However, it seems to me that there are situations in which injuries are obvious and in which it is consequently justified to react even before the final word. In this respect, the question of gun equality is also raised as it is also clear that large fish publishers are at least measured against authors who often lack resources in every way to exercise their rights. In the case of obvious injuries, there is indeed an additional problem of the message relating to the tolerance of such simply said theft, theft or the least said restriction of the rights of the author. That is why it seems important to propose a solution to these cases to the ministry. It may be the expert body of the ministry that would assume responsibility for excluding such publishers if it determines an injury in the name of the social importance of countering such injuries. Thus, the burden of proof would be transferred from the author to publishers who could then possibly prove to the court that the state was wrong when making such a decision to exclude it. In this way, the state would assume responsibility and be practically behind the authors or values on which copyright protection is based. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2022-03-31-0.u83727	You, too.
